
                               1 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 2, 2005 Wednesday

Just how warm does our planet have to get?

BYLINE: Kate Galbraith, LOCAL CONTRIBUTOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 723 words


Has anyone noticed that records are falling all over the place?

I'm not talking about the Astros and their fleeting glory. I'm talking about the
weather.

This hurricane season has been the busiest on record. The meteorological guys
started assigning Greek letters because they ran out of names. Hurricane Wilma,
the last to be properly named, was the strongest storm ever recorded in the
Atlantic.

That's not all. NASA says 2005 is on course to be the hottest year since
measurements began (rounding out the top five are 1998, 2002, 2003 and 2004).
Here in Austin, we sweated through the hottest September on record.

How many superlatives will it take for politicians to do something about global
warming?

When President Bush came to office, he promised that he would work to curb
emissions of carbon dioxide, the major greenhouse gas, from power plants. Global
warming, he said, "needs to be taken very seriously, and I take it seriously."
Nothing has happened, save for the introduction of a laughable voluntary
emissions program.

The president justified inaction by saying that scientists needed to learn more
about climate change, and whether much of it was really caused by people.

That excuse is officially bunk. Last year a report signed off on by the
Secretaries of Commerce and Energy concluded that warming trends in recent
decades "were unlikely to be due only to natural climate variations." When
buttonholed, the White House likes to cite a 2001 report from the National
Academy of Sciences, which says that rising temperatures "are likely mostly due
to human activities."

True, the jury is still out about whether oddities like gigantic hurricanes are
due to global warming. Two recent studies have argued the affirmative, but their
methodology has been challenged by credible scientists. The naysayers maintain
that hurricane strength goes in cycles, and we just happen to be on the brutal
end.

More work is clearly needed. But the smart money has got to be on global warming
as a contributor to the recent weather weirdness, from storms and drought to
Europe's killer heat wave in 2003.

Better safe than sorry, say scientists. "A lack of full scientific certainty
about some aspects of climate change is not a reason for delaying an immediate
response," wrote the National Academies of Science in June.

So what can be done? Across the stormy Atlantic, Europe has seized the
initiative. Starting in January, the European Union required companies to
participate in a cap-and-trade emissions scheme. Big polluters can buy
carbon-emissions credits -- or licenses to pollute more -- from light polluters.
Trading volumes are high, and European companies appear to be adjusting
smoothly. Canada is due to launch something similar in 2008.

The United States, the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases, sorely
needs such a system. Bush, predictably, has refused. In 2001, to the delight of
the energy and manufacturing lobbies, he rejected the Kyoto Protocol, the first
global compact on climate change, which required signatories to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.

With the federal government abdicating responsibility, some Americans are trying
fixes of their own. Nine Northeastern states, including New York, have drafted a
plan to cap emissions from power plants. And Americans are voluntarily turning
away from gas-guzzling (and greenhouse-gas emitting) vehicles, owing to higher
gasoline prices.

These are promising starts, but they won't save too many Arctic icecaps. As
Florida and the Gulf states pick themselves up, the time is right for genuine
leadership from Washington. All options should be back on the table -- emissions
trading, vehicle gas-mileage requirements, and even nuclear power (a bitter pill
for the left) and a carbon tax (the same for the right).

With temperatures forecast to rise by up to six degrees Celsius this century,
time is running out. Unless something changes, our descendants will inherit a
world not just without polar bears, but also without coastal Louisiana, the
Florida Keys and much else.

Galbraith, an Austin resident, is the Southwest correspondent for the Economist
magazine of London.

On statesman.com: Austin Mayor Will Wynn and others are taking the lead in
helping cities reduce greenhouse gases, writes Tom 'Smitty' Smith of Public
Citizen. statesman.com/othertakes.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               2 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 11, 2005 Sunday

Holland vigilant against flooding;
Dutch have long taken danger of rising waters seriously

BYLINE: Don Melvin, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 763 words


HOEK VAN HOLLAND, Netherlands -- On either side of the estuary that leads to
Rotterdam, a low-lying city more populous than New Orleans, lie two steel
structures, each the size of the Eiffel Tower lying on its side.

Each has a wall affixed to what would be the tower's base. In the event of
catastrophically rising seas, the two structures would rotate from their tips,
causing the two walls to meet in the middle of the waterway to form a dam.

The computer-operated structure, called the Maeslant Barrier, is designed to
protect Rotterdam, a city of more than 600,000 inhabitants, from a storm surge
as high as 16 1/2 feet above mean sea level.

The Dutch government wants to take no chances with the kind of devastation that
has ravaged New Orleans.

Spurred by memories of a 1953 flood that killed more than 1,800 people, and
gravely concerned by rising seas, the Dutch spent more than $800 million to
build the Maeslant Barrier. It became operational in 1997, during a decade when
the Dutch also began to pay considerable attention to climate change.

Some scientists contend that warmer temperatures are contributing to more
frequent and stronger hurricanes, such as Katrina. The Dutch are convinced that
the effects of climate change are being felt in Holland today.

With much of the country below sea level, inhabitants take evidence of rising
seas seriously. If there were no dikes and dunes protecting it, 66 percent of
Holland would be underwater, said Adriaan Cornelisse, a spokesman for the
Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management.

And climate change affects more than just the sea level, Cornelisse said.

"We've got water coming from two sides -- or three sides, I often say," he
explained. "We've got sea water; the level is rising. We've got river water from
the Rhine and the Meuse rivers. In the French and German and Swiss areas of
those rivers, more rain is falling; we've got more water coming. And besides
that, the number of rains in the Netherlands itself is rising also."

And there is one other problem: the ground is sinking in the Netherlands. A good
portion of the country sits on alluvial peat soils. When drained of water, the
soil gradually compresses and oxidizes, resulting in what is called subsidence
-- it sinks.

Debate over the effects of global warming began in the Netherlands in the late
1980s. In the 1990s, the country reviewed its entire flood defense system, said
Marcel Marchand, an ecologist at Delft Hydraulics, a nonprofit research
institute.

"I think there is a very good belief that the climate is changing," Marchand
said. "Almost nobody doubts that. Whether it is human-induced or not, we have to
face the consequences."

The sea level could rise as much as 1 meter, or more than 3 feet, by the end of
this century, Marchand said. The ground will sink a few centimeters. Rivers,
swollen by rains that now fall more heavily in winter, will flood more often.

The fear is that, unless the country's sea defenses are strengthened, a storm
that wouldn't have been overly damaging some decades ago could, on top of the
higher average sea level, prove catastrophic in the future.

In a country of 16.4 million people, the Dutch government has budgeted nearly $1
billion for new projects where coastal defenses are deemed weak, Cornelisse
said. And the routine maintenance of dikes and dunes will cost $625 million for
each of the next five years.

The government also will spend $2.75 billion in the next 10 years on a program
designed to let the country's rivers hold more water when floods come, either
from upstream or from the sea.

The government's goal is to ensure protection against a storm so severe that it
could be expected only once every 4,000 years.

The Maeslant Barrier, which will close for storm surges far less severe than
that, has never yet been triggered -- though it is expected to close on average
once every seven years.

The Dutch, with a long history of protecting low-lying populated areas, are
proud of their water-control techniques. But their government took care to avoid
criticism of the United States after the Hurricane Katrina disaster. The
situation in New Orleans differs significantly from that in the Netherlands,
"making comparisons of the two counterproductive at this time," a government
statement said.

"Holland is a rich country," Marchand said. "We are able to pay for our sea
defenses." Other low-lying countries, such as Bangladesh and the Maldives, have
far less money to spend and could face dire consequences as the climate
continues to change, he warned.

dmelvin@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               5 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 15, 2005 Wednesday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1151 words


Heading off to the gulag?

The American-Statesman continues publishing reports and comments about Amnesty
International's use of the word "gulag."

The photo on the June 5 front page of a line of Iraqi prisoners, blindfolded,
tied to each other and stooped over shows people who feel they are going to a
gulag.

Conditions at Guantanamo Bay, as reported in FBI e-mails and reports by former
guards and interrogators, include using sex, blood and the Quran as instruments
of torture. This convinces me we are running multiple gulags. Our treatment of
what are really prisoners of war and our flippant attitude about the Geneva
Conventions will haunt our nation for decades.

JOHN F. YEAMAN

Austin

Strengthen police monitor

Once again, Austin police are facing serious allegations of misconduct.
Witnesses say a non-resisting young man who was lying on the ground was shot in
the back by an officer. The Austin Police Association has already proclaimed the
officer acted in self-defense. I have worked with the Austin Police Department
on a professional basis and as a citizen. I've become alarmed at the mentality
of many police officers who think of their jobs as "me" vs. "them."

Many officers are only too willing to lie to protect a brother officer. Even
more widespread is the officers' attitude that they are above the law.

The Police Department is here to protect us. It's time that politicians stand up
and give real power to the police monitor and the citizens' review board to
investigate and pass judgment on allegations of misconduct. I'm sure the Austin
Police Association would object. But why should they? Do they distrust the
citizens whom they are being paid to protect?

N.C. ROBERTS

Austin

Editing climate reports

Re: June 8 article, "Bush official altered environment reports":

White House official Philip Cooney, a former lobbyist for the American Petroleum
Institute, the largest group that represents the oil industry, is the chief of
staff for the White House Council on Environmental Quality. That's the office
that helps devise and promote administration policies on environmental issues.
Cooney, a lawyer with no scientific training, edited government climate reports
and played down the links between emissions and global warming.

The White House said changes in government reports were part of a normal review.
If this administration can change reports at will, how can the American people
believe anything that is put in front of them?

PATRICK XIMENES

Austin

Humans causing warming

I teach science. Our science-based understanding of climate change supports
immediate action to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases.

The Bush administration's efforts to mislead the American people and to delay
action on this issue are irresponsible.

CHRIS HUFF

Austin

Speaking of problems . . .

Marilyn Geewax's article in the American-Statesman's June 8 issue, "Airlines
blasted for pension problems" -- in which senators scolded airline executives
for offering extravagant benefits they could not afford -- was the latest
example of our representatives' arrogance.

The same senators have done, and are continuing to do, far worse than these
airline executives (whom I concur should be criticized) by their similar abuse
of Social Security funds. They are promising to pay younger workers from funds
that Congress has long since been spent.

This is a classic example of the pot calling the kettle black.

JOHN McCULLOCH

Austin

Fighting for the U.S.

Re: June 9 letter to the editor, "Veterans fight recruiting":

The letter writer stated that "many veterans also recognize the blurring of
lines between countries and prefer to be considered world citizens rather than
patriots." My brother and three brother-in-laws fought in World War II, and none
of them considered themselves "world citizens." They fought for freedom, a
concept that the letter writer apparently doesn't understand.

I suggest that the writer read our history, particularly about George Washington
and Valley Forge. Washington knew that there are times when you have to stand up
and be counted.

JOHN FINLEY

Austin

Perry went over the line

I am appalled by Gov. Rick Perry's recent statement encouraging homosexuals to
leave Texas if they are dissatisfied with the Legislature's attempts to sanction
discrimination. The governor wouldn't mind seeing millions of tax dollars leave
the state? I suppose he rationalizes his bigotry with misguided Christian faith.

I understand, though sadly too many do not, that this is political red meat to
distract voters from Perry's failures in other respects, such as his failure to
create sorely needed school finance reform.

I, and my gay and lesbian friends, will not be bullied. We are here to stay, to
fight against the hateful attempts to legalize discrimination, to pay our taxes
and to demand representation.

JENNIFER GILES

Flower Mound

Gays in the military

Every month that the military falls short of recruiting goals, the likelihood of
a draft increases. Currently, openly gay men are allowed to register with the
Selective Service. Without proper safeguards, some able-bodied young man might
be allowed to answer his country's call to duty despite the fact that he is gay.

Congress must act to reduce the inevitable degradation in unit cohesion and
morale that gay soldiers would cause. Extend the "don't ask, don't tell" policy
to the draft by adding a question to the Selective Service form. Then, those
indicating that they are gay can be excluded from the draft.

I'm sure that the plan allowing people to serve who are overweight, have
criminal records or alcohol and drug abuse problem should fill any shortfall
left by the absence of gay soldiers -- and do so in a morale-boosting way.

JAMES SOUTHERLAND

Austin

Tolls will cost too much

The Capital Area Metropolitan Planning Organization's board showed its true
colors at its meeting on June 6 in Austin. The board members do not care about
the average people in Central Texas, or how much it is going to cost them to
travel on their toll roads. For some people, it is going to cost about $1,000 to
$2,000 per year to travel on these toll roads. I cannot afford to drive on their
toll roads.

JIM STAUBER

Liberty Hill

Ideas to improve image

President Bush is launching a public relations campaign to try to improve the
declining image of Americans in the rest of the world. Just in case that doesn't
work, here are a few other ideas he might try:

* Don't spend as much on war preparedness as the rest of the world combined.

*  Don't invade other countries based on flimsy pretexts that prove to be wrong.

*  Don't imprison foreign suspects for years without legal rights or charges
against them.

*  Don't conceal prisoner abuse.

* Bring our troops home from Iraq.

Even one of these measures would do more to improve the world's view of
Americans than another public relations campaign.

KERRY McGRATH

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Iraqi forces in the Hussein Brigade arrested 60 suspected insurgents in
two days last week. Some of the suspects were paraded at a base in southern
Baghdad.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               6 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 9, 2005 Thursday

Spinning science

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 367 words


If any international issue needs thorough scientific vetting, it's global
warming. But in what has become routine, a high-ranking official in the Bush
administration has been spinning the data.

According to The New York Times, Philip Cooney, chief of the White House Council
on Environmental Quality, has been adding his own views to scientific reports on
climate research. Before joining the administration, Cooney was a top lobbyist
at the American Petroleum Institute and helped fight efforts to limit greenhouse
gases blamed for global warming.

Cooney's changes often amounted to editing doubt into reports where there was
none. In the Times article, for example, in a sentence saying, "Many scientific
observations indicated that the Earth is undergoing a period of relatively rapid
change," the word "is" was changed to "may be."

Political spin is nothing new from this White House or any other, but adding it
to scientific studies is troublesome. The science should stand on its own.

That was made clear this week when the scientific academies in 11 countries,
including the United States, released a letter stating that the science on
global warming and greenhouse gases leads to the inescapable conclusion that
something must be done to curb harmful emissions.

It said in part, "the scientific understanding of climate change is now
sufficiently clear to justify nations taking prompt action." That seems
indisputable to most people around the world. The uncertainties that exist are
not enough to postpone action to reduce carbon dioxide and other emissions that
are destructive to the planet.

The Bush White House has built a reputation of being untrustworthy, and the
Cooney episode doesn't help. That mistrust is added to the administration's
penchant for secrecy and its efforts to keep the American people in the dark too
frequently.

Cooney's editing is a symbol of the larger issue, too -- the administration's
disdain for data that doesn't fit its political line. Whether it was weapons of
mass destruction in Iraq, the true cost of adding prescription drugs to Medicare
benefits or global warming, the White House prefers spin to the truth.

That's a damning legacy for the president.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               8 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 4, 2005 Friday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1127 words


Earthquake survivors in a desperate situation

In the earthquake-ravaged mountains of Pakistan, hundreds of thousands of people
will likely freeze to death this winter.

Why are we ignoring the United Nations' plea for donations? Does our compassion
stop at the Gulf of Mexico? If so, snow will soon silence the survivors. Though
far away, these desperate people deserve the media attention and aid we've shown
hurricane victims.   Human suffering knows no borders, and neither should our
generosity.

BOB KARSTENS

bkarstens@jmj.com

Austin

Success for freshmen

I appreciated the Nov. 1 American-Statesman editorial, "Starting college out
right," which addressed the recommendations of the University's Task Force on
Curricular Reform and the importance of the freshman year for undergraduate
students.

The Statesman is correct that giving freshmen and sophomores the opportunity to
make more informed choices regarding majors can be both valuable and
cost-effective. Those who fund higher education -- parents, students and the
state -- would surely agree.

But please let me point out that the task force's proposal to establish a
University College as a portal for all freshmen was motivated by the desire to
enrich early university education, rather than to address freshman dropout
rates. Indeed, the University of Texas is proud of the fact that 92.7 percent of
our freshmen return for their sophomore year, a figure among the highest in the
nation's leading public universities. Our retention rates for minority students
are also impressive: 89.5 percent for Hispanic students and 89.6 for African
American students.

Curricular reform is part of a larger effort to improve the undergraduate
experience at UT and to help students make the most of their university
education.

LARRY R. FAULKNER

President

The University of Texas

Not a liberal front group

The letter from the executive director of the Travis County Republican Party
(Oct. 29, "A liberal front group"), makes an assertion that is so silly I was
shocked by its printing. In criticizing two leaders of the Texas Parent PAC, the
letter writer accuses them of Democratic partisanship by noting that "both have
long histories with the  Democratic Party as faithful primary voters."

I would assume that most registered voters, both Democrats and Republicans,
normally vote in their own party's primary elections rather than randomly
"crossing over" to the other party's primary. In fact, when large numbers of
voters in other states have chosen to cross over, affected partisans have
criticized those voters as "carpetbaggers" who are trying to manipulate the
choice of candidates for the general election.

WILLIAM MARTELLO

Austin

Spinning global warming

Re: Oct. 30 Insight article, "The truth about global warming":

Sandy Doughton's article about global warming has little truth and a lot of
political spin. She states, "The planet is getting hotter, humans are to blame."
Later she adds that the planet has gone from icy to steamy many times in the
past, even before there were humans.

She even offers a quote "MOST (my caps) of the warming . . .  is attributable to
human activities." This is hardly support for her statement that humans are to
blame for global warming. As a matter of fact, it is well known that the planet
has been warming for at least the past 10,000 years.

This is a good example of a reporter putting a political spin on a scientific
investigation, and it is why most scientists stay away from reporters and
politicians.

JERRY LUCIA

Austin

Just tell us the facts

Re: Nov. 2 column by Kate Galbraith, "Just how warm does our planet have to
get?":

Once again, the American-Statesman prints a political article about global
warming. Galbraith, a business journalist for the Economist, cries "the sky is
falling" by saying there will be no polar bears and no Louisiana coastline.

Galbraith is not a scientist. The facts she does use are only half-right. In
July 1999, the U.S. Senate voted 95-0 to refuse to ratify the Kyoto treaty
unless developing nations, such as China, were included in the protocol. George
W. Bush was not president, so he had nothing to do with the rejection of the
treaty.

Galbraith apparently doesn't realize that the United States has been using the
cap-and-trade approach to control emissions since 1990 because she implied that
Europe is the only region using this approach. Many meteorologist feel, based on
scientific data, that the current hurricanes are just part of a cycle.

Why doesn't the Statesman get serious about the issue of global warming?

PAULETTE MADISON

pamadison@yahoo.com

Austin

Quality of life concerns

Re: Oct. 28, "Steps to improve blacks' quality of life endorsed":

The Austin City Council members might have the best intentions for improving
Austin's African American quality of life, but I have concerns -- not the least
of which is that the $700,000 expected to implement the quality of life plan is
not voter-approved. Some reasons given for flight to the suburbs are the
cost-of-living and lack of a vibrant cultural scene in Austin. I am not
convinced that spending tax money causes the cost-of-living to drop, nor that
the suburbs around Austin have a greater African American cultural scene.

The Oct. 30 editorial, "Improving cultural life for Austin's minorities will
enrich us all," stated that the city already supports the Austin Film and South
by Southwest festivals. One proposal is for separate black film and music
festivals instead of determining why the current festivals are not inclusive
enough.

Concerning city-funded separate entities, targeted at specific groups, the
best-supported groups seem to be those created and maintained by the groups
themselves, not those initiated by government.

Once started, these targeted programs are difficult to cut, or not fund at
increasingly greater amounts, without the city being accused of being "racist"
or "heartless." We need to fix the bureaucracy we have, not create more.

SHARON SPENCER

Austin

No humor in deaths

Re: Nov. 2 column by James Lileks, "Why are Republicans so gloomy? Look left":

The late Jimmy Durante had nothing on Lileks. Lileks soft-shoes around the
keyboard, shuffling off to Buffalo and throwing off flippant one-liners about
our war dead in Iraq like he has the stage on opening night. He must think those
2,000 dead are dispensable souls because he said this about media headlines:
"Hmm. Helvetica Bold? No, used that for the 1,000th death."

There is nothing cute about this war we are in. It is not a stage production. If
he makes a point -- if -- it is lessened by his capriciousness, which stands
just upstage from disrespect. Break out the tomatoes. I want my money back.

CLEM BEARD

Major, U.S. Marine Corps. (ret)

Lago Vista

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rematullah Khan, who lost five family members in the Oct. 8 earthquake,
cries Thursday as he talks about the difficulties survivors near Chakothi,
Pakistan, are facing. The official death toll stands at about 73,000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               10 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 9, 2005 Sunday

School finance and beyond;
Lawmakers to wrestle with tough issues during session

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H6

LENGTH: 3097 words


EDUCATION

Public school finance

Issue: Overhaul the $30 billion school finance system in a way that will help
school districts that have hit the state's property tax cap, give tax relief to
homeowners, aid wealthier districts that send money to poorer districts and
guarantee that poorer districts can adequately educate their students.

Analysis: After putting off serious discussion of school finance for most of the
past decade, lawmakers are now being forced by the courts to replace the
so-called "Robin Hood" system that requires property wealthier districts to
share that wealth with their poorer neighbors.

Many lawmakers want to cut property taxes, but they're far less certain which
taxes they should raise or create to offset those cuts. Proposals include a
higher cigarette tax, higher sales tax, a new business activity tax and a
statewide property tax. With much of the Republican base opposed to the
expansion of gambling, and with gambling revenues unlikely to provide all of the
money schools need anyway, lawmakers will have to look to tax increases if they
want to cut local property taxes in a meaningful way.

District Judge John Dietz has said that he will order the state to stop paying
for public education if lawmakers don't create a new system by Oct. 1. But the
Supreme Court could suspend that deadline if it grants an appeal in the case,
and some observers have said they don't expect action until the Supreme Court
weighs in.

Charter schools

Issue: Charter schools, which use public money but are free of some state
regulations, have not performed well on state tests, and occasional revelations
of financial mismanagement have plagued the movement in Texas.

Analysis: A report from the Sunset Advisory Commission staff said the state
cannot currently ensure that the schools are educating students or spending
money properly, and it called for greater oversight. But that oversight would
have to come from the Texas Education Agency, which had its budget slashed in
2003 and isn't likely to see a large influx of new dollars. Gov. Rick Perry has
resisted previous efforts to keep a closer eye on these schools, but a panel of
business advisers has told him that the state needs to make it harder for
private groups to open the schools.

School vouchers

Issue: Social conservatives say school vouchers are needed to help students
trapped in low-performing schools go elsewhere. School groups oppose them
fiercely, saying they'll drain local districts of money.

Analysis: The outlook is better than ever for voucher advocates.

Republicans have a majority in both chambers and major school reform is on the
horizon, meaning lawmakers will debate not only what revenue sources pay for
schools, but how that money is spent. At the same time, vouchers typically draw
opposition from some Republicans, particularly those that represent rural areas.
Any plan that makes it into law probably will be limited to students in
low-performing urban schools.

Top 10 percent rule

Issue: Whether to repeal, scale back or leave intact a law that allows students
graduating in the top 10 percent of their high school class in Texas to attend
any public college or university in the state.

Analysis: The law was enacted in 1997 to promote racial and ethnic diversity
when affirmative action in admissions was deemed illegal, but the U.S. Supreme
Court last year affirmed limited use of affirmative action.

Gov. Rick Perry says that the law is not working as intended and that too many
highly qualified students who don't finish at the top of their high school class
are enrolling in out-of-state colleges.

The law's defenders, including the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People and other civil rights organizations, say it gives members of
minority groups an opportunity to attend the state's best schools, including the
University of Texas at Austin.

One option, espoused by UT-Austin President Larry Faulkner, would be to revise
the law so that state schools would have to accept no more than half of their
students on the basis of a top 10 percent ranking.

Tuition deregulation

Issue: Whether to continue allowing universities to set their own tuition.

Analysis: Having watched tuition costs skyrocket at many of Texas' public
universities in the past year, several legislators have questioned whether
allowing universities to set their own tuition was a good idea. The University
of Texas, for instance, adopted a 37 percent increase in tuition and fees during
the year following the 2003 deregulation. Another 4.75 percent tuition increase
is being planned for the fall of 2005. The universities say they are only making
up for cuts in state appropriations. Lawmakers, who also must answer
constituents concerns about the increases, will be watching carefully to see how
the money is being spent.

College aid

Issue: How best to distribute limited funds for student financial aid.

Analysis: Slapped by funding shortages, steep tuition increases and potential
cuts to federal tuition assistance programs, the state's college financial aid
system is evolving. Fewer students are receiving TEXAS Grants and more are
getting B-On-Time loans, which require students to graduate in four years with a
B-average -- or pay the loans back.

Many students won't be able to meet those conditions, prompting some lawmakers
to push for more money for the grants.

TRANSPORTATION

Toll roads

Issue: Whether to strengthen or curtail the state's ability to create toll
roads.

Analysis: State transportation officials, given a wide range of powers last
session, would like even more flexibility and even more money. One proposal
would direct $400 million a year in vehicle-related fees to the Texas Mobility
Fund. That guaranteed revenue stream would allow that fund, established in 2003,
to borrow up to $5 billion for roads rather than the $2 billion to $3 billion
possible now. Opponents of toll roads, meanwhile, want to repeal or amend parts
of the 2003 law that is driving the toll road push.

And just about everybody wants some clarity in the law about what constitutes a
toll "conversion." The state contends it is only a conversion if a road has free
traffic on it, then is switched to a toll road. Some say that milestone should
kick in when a project has begun construction, or even earlier. Converting a
road requires approval of local officials, so toll road supporters want that
milestone to be as late as possible.

Gasoline taxes

Issue: Should the Legislature increase the 20-cent-a-gallon motor fuels tax or
at least allow localities to tack on a few cents with voter approval?

Analysis: Inflation has trimmed away about 30 percent of that tax's purchasing
power since it was set at 20 cents in 1991, making it worth about 14 cents a
gallon. And the toll road fracas of the past year should give a gas tax hike
some momentum. But that momentum is unlikely to get past the committee level, if
that far. Gov. Rick Perry, looking to remain to the right of any challengers in
a GOP gubernatorial primary in 2006, probably won't sign a gasoline tax increase
of any kind, even local-option.

Freight rail

Issue: How to move much of the state's increasing freight rail traffic out of
urban areas.

Analysis: All it takes is money and cooperation from the major freight rail
carriers, such as Union Pacific and Burlington Northern. The state
Transportation Department has been negotiating with the carriers, but they need
money from the Legislature. One plan would have the state establish a railroad
fund comparable to the Texas Mobility Fund for roads, allocating $200 million a
year in steady revenue to it so that the state could borrow about $2 billion. At
an estimated cost of $500 million for a major rail relocation, that would mean
four areas -- the Austin-to-San Antonio corridor, for instance -- could get
relief from inner city rail traffic.

LEGAL ISSUES

Reproductive rights

Issue: Tweaking the state's parental notification law; dispensing
contraceptives.

Analysis: Minors who want to have abortions must notify their guardian, but
judges can waive the rule if they think doing so would be better for the girl.

Anti-abortion advocates, concerned that too many girls are bypassing the law
through the courts, want the state to report how many girls were granted
abortions through the courts. They also want people who accompany a girl to an
abortion site to prove that they are the guardian Some abortion foes want
parents to be required to consent to the abortion and not merely be notified of
it. Some lawmakers may push a bill that defines when life begins.

Also, Rep. Frank Corte Jr., R-San Antonio, has filed a bill that would allow
pharmacists to opt out of dispensing emergency contraceptives, which can be
taken to prevent pregnancy.

Asbestos lawsuits

Issue: Whether to limit claims in asbestos-related lawsuits

Analysis: As many as 40 percent of asbestos lawsuits in the United States are
filed in Texas, and Republican leaders will take a second crack at trying to
rein in what they describe as frivolous suits.

Any proposal likely will resemble those that failed in 2003 and require
plaintiffs to prove serious medical impairment from asbestos. Plaintiffs who
can't demonstrate any harm would have little standing to sue.

BUSINESS AND LABOR

Economic development

Issue: More money for the Texas Enterprise Fund

Analysis: Gov. Rick Perry has proposed allocating another $300 million to the
Enterprise Fund used to entice corporations to move to or grow in Texas and set
aside a similar amount to foster research. Legislative leaders have applauded
the proposal, if there is enough money when everything else in the budget is
covered.

That could be the big hitch.

Workers' compensation

Issue: Fix the state's broken system to compensate injured workers.

Analysis: Lawmakers will face one of their biggest hurdles of the session when
they try to overhaul the Texas workers' compensation system, which has become
one of the most expensive and inefficient programs in the country. The objective
will be to create a system that will get more workers back to their jobs faster
and for lower costs.

Insurance reform

Issue: It's the long-awaited sequel to the state's fight to force major insurers
to cut rates on Texas homeowner insurance policies.

Analysis: Lawmakers will revisit the 2003 insurance law, looking to strengthen
penalties against overcharges.

State regulators can impose penalties that amount to a tiny percentage of
potential overcharges. Lawmakers will be looking to increase that percentage to
an amount that will get notice from insurers that don't roll back rates.

Telecom and electric utilities

Issue: Both industries have seen significant deregulation in Texas, and more
regulatory changes could be on the way.

Analysis: The Public Utility Commission of Texas, which oversees both these
industries, is up for reauthorization this session through a sunset bill. With
that, lawmakers will be taking a closer look at the industries, the PUC and its
oversight of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, a private not-for-profit
company that manages the state's power grid.

Also, lawmakers could be looking at proposals to further deregulate the telecom
industry.

ENVIRONMENT

Environmental law enforcement

Issue: Fix gaps in the state's pollution policing system.

Analysis: The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has tentatively endorsed
proposals to better hold polluters accountable, including establishing mandatory
minimum fines and requiring violators to pay a greater share of the money that
they save by not installing or fixing required pollution control systems. Some
of the changes probably will require legislative authorization.

The commission also tentatively deferred to the Legislature on how to determine
a company's history of compliance with environmental laws, which is reviewed
when new pollution permits are issued. A key battle probably will involve how
much of a company's history the commission must make readily available to the
public through the Internet.

Regulation of quarries

Issue: Expanding the state's authority to regulate water and air pollution from
quarries that mine gravel, stone and other construction materials.

Analysis: The state's limited authority to regulate quarries became an issue
after officials in Burnet County complained that some of their environmental
concerns about proposed quarries were deemed irrelevant when the quarries
received state operating approval. Sen. Troy Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay, chaired an
interim committee whose report is expected to form the basis for legislation
that would expand the authority of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
to regulate quarries and require permits, especially for the mining process and
any resulting water pollution. Currently, many quarries need only an air
pollution permit to operate rock crushing equipment.

Water rights

Issue: Balancing the sale of groundwater with environmental concerns.

Analysis: Local groundwater districts have exploded in number since the
Legislature in 1997 endorsed them as the preferred method for regulating
groundwater.

They're now in a crossfire of competing interests. Some private investors and
landowners who want to sell their water fault the districts for foot-dragging to
kill deals, while others say the powers of districts need to be beefed up.

Thrown into the mix this session are recommendations from a legislative panel
urging stricter conservation measures. Still to come: the report of the Senate
Select Committee on Water Policy and a state commission task force's views on
environmental flows -- preserving enough water for the health of rivers, bays
and estuaries.

GOVERNMENT

State budget and taxes

Issue: Education and health care costs will drive the two-year state budget,
projected to reach between $125 billion and $130 billion. Agency leaders hope to
avoid the types of budget cuts that they saw in 2003. The budget must balance.

Analysis: Medicaid rolls are projected to grow by as much as 24 percent, which
could add billions to the budget. Lawmakers also must decide how much new money
to put into the state's $30 billion-a-year public education system.

State leaders aren't likely to call for a tax increase to pay for anything but
education. A state income tax is highly unlikely. An expansion of or increase in
the sales tax is more likely, and lawmakers also will consider new business
taxes, such as taxes on payrolls or profits. Gov. Rick Perry has said he does
not want taxes that will hurt the state's business climate, but some type of tax
on businesses may be inevitable.

How they prioritize expenses beyond education will determine whether they can
restore cuts made in 2003 to Medicaid reimbursements to doctors, the Children's
Health Insurance Program and health insurance benefits for teachers and state
employees.

Campaign finance reform

Issue: Corporate campaign donations prompted a two-year criminal investigation
and litigation over the legality of the contributions, particularly those made
by anonymous business interests.

Analysis: With a grand jury investigation continuing, the Legislature must
decide whether to legalize corporate and union donations to campaigns, ban them
outright or do nothing and let the courts sort it out. Some Republicans probably
will file legislation to legalize the donations, while good government groups --
with allies from both parties -- want to restrict political donations.

CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Death penalty

Issue: Changes in the way juries are instructed.

Analysis: The U.S. Supreme Court has found that Texas prosecutors have sometimes
improperly used race as a factor in choosing jurors. It has also found problems
with the instructions jurors sometimes receive in death penalty cases. The
Legislature can be expected to examine the issue and probably amend state law.

Rehabilitation programs

Issue: How to successfully rehabilitate criminals so they can become
law-abiding, tax-paying citizens.

Analysis: With rehabilitation and retraining programs for convicts back in favor
nationally, budget-strapped lawmakers can be expected to embrace
alternatives-to-prison programs in a way they haven't done in several years.
Look for it to be touted as "tough on crime, smart on crime."

Probation

Issue: Expanding probation programs.

Analysis: With state prisons filling up, look for lawmakers to argue to put more
people on probation and bolster those programs to provide better supervision.
Chances of passage: Good.

New prisons

Issue: Whether to build new prisons

Analysis: With the prisons budget already tighter than a 20-year-old belt, and
no substantive political support for new prisons, lawmakers probably will look
to housing the growing number of convicts in private prisons and county beds as
a temporary fix.

HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

Protective services

Issue: Reforming child and adult protective services. Adding more caseworkers
and improving training.

Analysis: The state's child and adult protective service agencies have been
investigated within the past year after scandals that were blamed on overworked
child abuse investigators, high turnover and prematurely closed cases.

Rep. Dawnna Dukes, D-Austin, has filed a bill that would limit the number of
cases a worker could have at one time. Sen. Florence Shapiro, R-Plano, has filed
another to expand a pilot program that trains caseworkers so they can step in
when others leave.

Sen. Jane Nelson, R-Lewisville, has filed a comprehensive bill that would arm
child protective caseworkers with better technology, require investigators to
work with law enforcement to better resolve cases in large counties and require
foster parents to undergo drug testing. She also wants to work on a system to
provide temporary emergency homes for elderly people and to better train
caseworkers.

Children's health insurance

Issue: Restoring dental and vision benefits.

Analysis: Two years ago, the Legislature cut dental, vision, mental health and
other benefits that children receive under the program and tightened the
eligibility requirements. As of December, there were 171,508 fewer children
enrolled in the program than there were before the changes.

Several lawmakers and advocacy groups are pushing to restore the benefits and do
away with the rules that make it tougher for people to qualify, such as using
their savings and the value of their vehicles as factors.

Other lawmakers are more reluctant to undo the changes. They say the state must
have a threshold to ensure that the neediest children are being helped.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: University of Texas President Larry Faulkner wants to change the
state's top 10 percent law so that schools would have to accept only half of
their students based on their ranking in high school. Currently, about 70
percent of UT-Austin students are admitted under the law.
Inflation may have whittled away the gasoline tax's spending power, but
legislators are unlikely to increase it.
Officials in Burnet County who complained that some of their environmental
concerns about proposed quarries were deemed irrelevant prompted a
re-examination of the process.
The U.S. Supreme Court found problems with some juror instructions in death
penalty cases. Lawmakers may examine the issue and amend laws.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               12 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday

Bright ideas conserve cash, too;
Save energy around the house by doing a little (adjusting the thermostat) or a
lot (investing in a tankless water heater -- or trees)

BYLINE: Jane Greig, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 2030 words


'We need to conserve more energy; we need to produce more energy," states
President Bush.

"Be aware of choices when selecting an electricity provider," urges Gov. Rick
Perry.

"Shift the starting and ending dates beginning in 2007 for more daylight-saving
time," dictates the Energy Policy Act of 2005.

"I am on the list for a hybrid," brags your neighbor.

Energy conservation buzz is all about us. The price of gasoline is down -- for
the moment. The price of natural gas is going up -- in the near future.

What's a consumer to do?

Checking for low gasoline prices

(Texasgas prices.com or Austin GasPrices .com) or buying cooler, more efficient
LED holiday lights is a start. No need to line the windows with aluminum foil,
burn the furniture to keep warm, move to a goat farm or wash your clothes on a
rock.

If energy conservation conjures up straw bale houses, tepid bath water and
sleeping in a sweater, you might be surprised by the sophisticated
possibilities.

Little things mean a great deal in energy efficiency. That is what I have
learned through personal experience and research. Turns out my penchant for
placing fluorescent, long-lasting light bulbs in hard-to-reach fixtures saves
money as well as my husband's time. And my son's insistence on purchasing a
tankless hot water heater is more than just scratching a new homeowner's itch
for the avant-garde. It makes good energy sense.

Have you ever wondered if a front-loading washing machine is more than a nice
space saver for garage apartments? Does it surprise you that a new refrigerator
is twice as efficient as one 10 years old? Did you know that you can calculate
the savings (yes, in dollars) on energy-efficient appliances at your keyboard?

The debate on where major energy sources of the future will originate -- wind,
hydrogen, sun, fossil fuels -- might be out of a consumer's control, but by the
end of this article every consumer will find several ways to save -- the Earth
and the energy bill.

Driving a hybrid is a start, but what about your castle?

The average home contributes more to air pollution and climate change than the
average car, according to findings by the Energy Star program, the Environmental
Protection Agency designation for strategies and products that use less energy
through advanced design or construction. Energy Star items save the environment
but also save money for consumers.  The air pollution cited by the EPA is
created by fossil-fuel plants, which power a home's appliances, cooling,
heating, etc., says Jonathan Passe, EPA spokesman.

Just where does the average $1,400 each homeowner spends on energy go every
year? Approximately 45 percent goes to heating and cooling costs; 11 percent,
water heater; 10 percent, washer and dryer; 7 percent, lighting. Have you taken
personal stock of these top four energy munchers in your home?

Most Texans consider air conditioning an essential. Austin Energy offers rebates
on high-efficiency heating and cooling equipment such as heat pumps and solar
water heaters. Replacing older models with energy-efficient air conditioners can
result in using 40 percent less electricity. But the decision to invest in a new
system might only cross your mind when the old one dies.

Anything you can do today for under $1,000?

Yes, simply changing a light bulb will help, if you change the type of bulb.

When you think about fluorescent lighting, does an unattractive office fixture
for an elongated tube pop into your head? Fluorescent bulbs have come a long
way. Shaped from tubing into an approximation of an incandescent bulb, these
compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs) save energy and money, even considering
that these bulbs are more expensive: about $7 for a spiral 100-watt fluorescent
bulb compared with about 82 cents for a 100-watt incandescent bulb. The down
side? Harpless lamp shades might be a hard fit with a CFL.

Is it worth the cost?

"If every household in the United States replaced its next bulb or fixture with
an Energy Star-labeled model, we would save more than 8 billion kilowatt hours
of energy and the equivalent in air pollution of removing 1.2 million cars from
the road," says the EPA. And the pocketbook savings? An Energy Star-rated CFL
uses 66 percent less energy than a standard incandescent bulb and lasts up to 10
times longer. A CFL giving off the same amount of light as a 100-watt regular
bulb can save a consumer about $42 over the life of the bulb. Dispose of
incandescent bulbs with your regular garbage; CFLs with hazardous household
waste.

What are the hot energy-saving items attracting consumers these days?

Front-loading washing machines and tankless water heaters, says Ray Tonjes,
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders green building
subcommittee.

Front-loading washing machines use less water and spin the clothes at a higher
speed. Both save energy. A front-loading machine dips the clothes in the water
rather than submerging clothes in a large tank. By extracting more water at the
end of the washing cycle, dryer time is shortened, Tonjes adds. The down side?
Bending to load and unload a front-loading machine might not appeal to every
consumer.

Tankless water heaters heat only the water you need when you need it. When a
hot-water faucet is turned on, cold water is moved through hot coils and quickly
heated to the desired temperature. No waiting except for your home's internal
delivery pipes. Unlike in a conventional water heater, a tank of water is not
constantly heated and reheated while waiting for the next shower or load of
whites.

"Over time this heater pays for itself," says Shannon Ryan, manager at Austin
Plumbing Supply, 5520 Burnet Road, where the majority of water heaters sold are
tankless. In addition to the energy savings, these water heaters, which are
about the size of a bread box, can be mounted outside, freeing interior space
previously reserved for the hot water tank. Cost? Traditional tank water heaters
range from $240 to $1,000 with a six-year warranty; tankless, $700 to $2,000
with a 10-year warranty.

Should I replace a working appliance?

Saving energy might feel good, but does it make economic sense? That's a tough
call, but fortunately Austin Energy has a calculator to help consumers make
decisions.

Savings calculators give the approximate cost savings for home energy efficiency
improvements and  appliances. Visit www.austinenergy.com and click on "Online
Home Energy Analysis Tool." The analysis is available for central and room air
conditioners (window units), heating system, washer, dryer, lighting,
thermostat, water heater, refrigerator, freezer, dishwasher, cooking range and
oven.

Take this example. Thinking about a new washing machine? Enter parameters such
as number of loads per week, water temperature, appliance age and energy source.
Do you wash seven to 11 loads in warm water in a gas-powered top-loading machine
every week? Change to a front loader and you could save $1,000 over the life of
the new appliance. That could pay for a front-loading machine ($600 to $1,400
for most models). The water savings amounts to 5,600 to 9,400 gallons of water
annually.

Washing machine tips if you use a top-loader? Soak clothes before washing and
use a shorter wash cycle. Rinse with cold water and the average consumer will
experience more savings.saves $25 per year with electric hot water; $10 with gas

Using the Austin Energy calculator, here are the savings if you are considering
a new water heater: Replace a 5- to 9-year-old gas, medium-capacity tank water
heater with an on-demand (tankless) energy efficient model and save $340 to $520
over the life of the appliance. Note that the electric-powered on-demand models
are not as efficient as gas-powered ones.

Money, money, money

Austin Energy offers incentives to consumers to promote the purchase of
energy-efficient appliances.

You can earn a $35 incentive to recycle an old, working refrigerator, $2 on each
Energy Star compact fluorescent light bulb at participating retailers, as well
as rebates on efficient central air conditioning and Energy Star window units,
says Jerrel Gustafson, residential program manager. Rebates on front-loading
washing machines are also available from City of Austin Water Conservation.
Austin Energy offers up to $1,400 in rebates for air conditioning, attic
insulation, solar screens, caulking and weatherstripping. Visit austinenergy
.com or call 482-5356 for details.

I think that I shall never see an AC unit lovely as a tree . . .

Studies reported in Home Energy magazine indicate that a well-placed, mature
shade tree reduces annual air conditioning use by 2 to 8 percent. The
advisability of perching a house under a canopy of trees is not news to Texans
who understand the virtues of ranch house design.

But what if those mature trees are not on your property yet? Plant some.

"Both Chinese elms (aka lace bark elm) and Monterrey oaks (aka Mexican white
oak) are good choices for this area," says Skip Richter, Travis County Extension
Service horticulturist (854-9600 or www.co.travis.tx.us/agext/default.asp). Most
fast-growing trees are not quality choices for the homeowner. Bonus: the
Monterrey oak is resistant to the disease oak wilt.

Look for a deciduous tree, which loses its leaves in the winter. The leafy shade
in summer to cool a home and exposure to winter sunshine to heat a home's
interior is a perfect combination.

Fall is a perfect time to plant a tree in Texas, when it will have all winter to
establish a healthy root system. How big a tree should you buy to plant? To make
your landscape dollar go farther plant something in the 5- to 15-gallon range,
Richter says, which will be about 5 feet tall.

Contact Jane Greig at P.O. Box 670, Austin 78767; (512) 445-3697; e-mail
jgreig@statesman.com or fax (512) 445-3968. For more Jane Greig, visit
www.statesman.com/life/greig.

(box)

Is it hot in here?

Tips to keep your heating and cooling system in good shape:

* Clean or replace filters at least once a month.

* Shade outside air conditioning units (condensers) with trees or other means.

* Clean your AC's condenser/evaporator coils at the beginning of the season.
(Wash the fin coils on outside units with a hose. Coils on inside units might
require a trained technician.)

* Keep debris and high grass away from the condenser.

* Set your thermostat at 78 degrees in the summer and 68 degrees in the winter.

* Do not close vents in unused rooms if you have central air conditioning.

* Consider new high-efficiency air conditioners and heat pumps, which use up to
40 percent less electricity than older models.

Source: Austin Energy

(box)

Primer -- incandescent, fluorescent.

What's the difference?

* Incandescent light bulbs have a filament that's heated to the point of
glowing. The glowing filament produces the bulb's light.

* Fluorescent bulbs or tubes are filled with mercury vapor that emits
ultraviolet light when electricity is applied. The bulbs and tubes have a
coating inside that turns the ultraviolet rays into visible light.

Source: lowes.com

(box)

O holy night -- the

LEDS are brightly

shining

Light-emitting diodes are the newest thing on the holiday tree. Cool-burning,
energy-efficient plastic bulbs last longer than traditional incandescent ones.
No more worries about that corn husk ornament your kindergartener made
shriveling next to a traditional, hot bulb. An LED strand is up to 90 percent
more energy-efficient than conventional incandescent lights. Pick up strands of
LED holiday lights at area home improvement stores or online at brookstone.com
(multicolor, mini, flame tip, raspberry, etc.). Cost? $19.95 for a strand of 70
flame-tip, multicolor LED lights versus $9.99 for a strand of 100 traditional
bulbs.

(box)

Ready to know more?

Contact one of these agencies for more information on saving energy.

* U.S. Department of Energy, www.eere.energy.gov/ consumer

* Energy Star program, http://energystar.gov, (888) STAR YES

* Austin Energy, 482-5356 or austinenergy.com

(box)

Water works

During the 25th anniversary Woodstock Festival, 20 tankless water heaters
provided 5,760 hot showers daily, nonstop.

Source: controlledenergy.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A compact fluorescent bulb, right, costs more but lasts longer.
Caulking around doors and windows can help save on heating and cooling bills.
Use just a little elbow grease to wind the Illuminator for one minute and you'll
get an hour of light.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               13 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 11, 2005 Friday

79TH LEGISLATURE;
House again alters business tax legislation;
Bill would expand franchise levy, make payroll tax an option

BYLINE: Jason Embry, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 691 words


Texas House leaders on Thursday again redrew their plans for changing the state
tax system, saying they want to expand the corporate franchise tax instead of
requiring all businesses to pay a payroll tax.

Most businesses in Texas avoid paying the franchise tax, many by organizing as
partnerships. The House plan proposed Thursday would expand the tax to include
partnerships, then give businesses the choice of paying the current franchise
tax or the payroll tax that a House committee approved earlier this week.

Lawmakers are considering boosting a series of taxes to pay for a one-third cut
in school property taxes. The effort is part of their larger goal of changing
the way Texas pays for public schools by shifting the source of about $5.4
billion a year from local to state taxes.

After approving major changes to education laws Wednesday, the House was
scheduled to debate the tax shift Thursday, with the goal of a final vote by
today. The issue of school and tax reform would then move to the Senate, which
is expected to pass its own plans. The two chambers could then hammer out the
differences in a conference committee before the legislative session ends in
late May.

But a series of drafting errors and questions about the proposed changes
prompted House Speaker Tom Craddick to end the day's session after more than
four hours on the bill and give authors more time to work out the kinks in the
bill.

"People looked like they were getting tired, and I thought it was better to come
back and do it in the morning," said Craddick, R-Midland.

The change marked the second time in a week that lawmakers changed the tax
proposal. The House Ways and Means Committee on Monday slightly increased a
couple of proposed taxes and added a 3 percent sales tax on snack foods after
Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn's office said the bill that the committee
approved last week would not raise enough money to offset the property tax cuts.

Some lawmakers and business groups also assailed the payroll tax over the past
week, saying it would discourage employers from adding jobs. Giving companies
the option of paying the franchise tax appeared to ease some of those concerns.

"I had some real heartburn over a brand-new tax, as did many of my
constituents," said Rep. Dan Gattis, R-Georgetown. "With the change that was
created, I feel better about it."

Under the current franchise tax, companies with annual gross earnings of more
than than $150,000 must pay either 0.25 percent of the value of their capital or
4.5 percent of their net corporate income, whichever amount is greater. The plan
discussed Thursday would give companies the choice of paying one of those levies
or the proposed payroll tax of 1.15 percent of each employee's wages, up to
$90,000.

"Texas has a diverse business climate, and this creates flexibility for
different types of businesses," said Rep. Dan Branch, R-Dallas.

The proposal defines an employee as a worker for whom the business contributes
to the unemployment insurance system.

Proprietorships or partnerships that do not have any employees would not have to
pay one of the business taxes. Subjecting them to those taxes is widely
considered akin to assessing a state income tax, which the state constitution
forbids.

Further changes to the proposed tax package could come today, particularly if
Craddick's team cannot win support for the latest proposal from a majority of
House members.

In its current form, the package boosts the state sales tax from 6.25 percent to
7.25 percent, raises the cigarette tax from 41 cents per pack to $1.41 per pack
and increases the sales tax on automobile and boat purchases.

The House will consider dozens of amendments before voting on the full tax
package. Some Democrats have voiced frustration that lawmakers decided that
amendments must be revenue-neutral, meaning anything that would bring in more
money for the state must reduce taxes somewhere else, and vice versa.

"It doesn't give the body the opportunity to raise money for vital initiatives,"
said Rep. Garnet Coleman, D-Houston. "We all know this government is
underfunded."

jembry@statesman.com; 445-3654

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               14 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 13, 2005 Friday

Scientist warns of extinction from warming

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 230 words


WASHINGTON -- Rare animals living in national parks and other protected areas
will face extinction as the Earth's temperature rises, famed anthropologist
Richard Leakey is warning.

Creatures such as China's pandas, Madagascar's lemurs and India's tigers will be
unable to migrate to more hospitable regions, Leakey said, so the reserves that
now protect them could be "extinction traps."

Many scientists think the Earth has started warming because of the buildup of
carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse gases" in the atmosphere. Leakey called for
creating an international fund of at least $100 million to help endangered
creatures survive the changes.

"We are in for a period of great extinction," said Leakey, who convened a small
forum of scientists and conservationists last week at Stony Brook University in
New York to discuss the problem. "This has grave implications for biodiversity."

Leakey, former director of the Kenya Wildlife Service and a member of the famous
family of paleontologists, said that many of the world's scarcest animals depend
for survival on national parks, reserves and other protected areas, which he
said should be thought of as "islands of biodiversity."

"If you look at the geological record, you find that during previous periods of
climate change, island animals suffered greater extinction than those on the
mainland," he said.

jeffn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               15 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 18, 2005 Monday

A&M scientists study cedar's helpful side

BYLINE: Claire Osborn, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 630 words


Austin-area residents have long suspected that cedar messes up the air and hogs
the water.

Now some Aggies are trying to find a positive side to keeping the pollen-spewing
tree around.

Texas A&M University professors Keith Owens, Brad Wilcox, Kevin McInnes and
James Heilman are running experiments on cedar trees that are part of a
worldwide study about the effect that carbon dioxide might have on global
climate change.

Plants absorb harmful carbon gases that are released into the atmosphere, and
cedar, which some Texas ranchers say they like to clear from their property to
preserve groundwater, is no different.

"One of the issues is, if you remove the cedar, you may be saving water but
losing carbon dioxide to the atmosphere," Heilman said.

So the researchers are trying to see whether the trade-off is worth it.

Owens said that in 1988, he did an experiment that showed that on a sunny day, a
cedar tree could use as much as 30 gallons of water. A live oak, by comparison,
used about 20 gallons.

This time around, using newer technology, the professors hope to measure several
trees at once to produce a more accurate picture of the trees' drinking habits.

To measure water absorption, Owens, the other professors and some graduate
students are using thermometers on cedars at two tracts of land in Bexar and
Hays counties.

With two thermometers, one heated to measure how much of the heat the water
inside the tree carries away, scientists can calculate the amount of water in a
tree.

Each site also includes additional experiments.

For example, at the Bexar plot, near the Comal County line, the scientists are
using a rainfall simulator to see how much the trees absorb in various storm
conditions, and they are scrutinizing trees growing over caves to measure how
much of the water they're absorbing from the aquifer.

Carbon dioxide research is taking place at the Hays County site, located on the
San Marcos-area Freeman ranch, which is run by Texas State University.

The researchers are measuring the amount of gas that 80 acres of cedar absorb,
using infrared analyzers at different tree levels. The devices take measurements
10 times every second.

Ranchers have long griped about cedar's thirsty habits.

J. David Bamberger said the research he's done on his 5,500-acre ranch near
Johnson City shows that removing cedar and other trees helps improve groundwater
flow.

When he bought the land 36 years ago, he drilled seven wells and came up dry.
After he cleared most of the cedar and other trees and replanted with grasses,
11 springs and two creeks started running, he said.

He still has 500 to 600 acres of cedar for wildlife cover.

Bamberger said he hadn't heard of the Texas A&M study.

"There have been so many grants gotten and so many studies that when I hear
numbers bantered around, sometimes I wonder who's right," he said.

The Hays study, which cost $500,000, and the Bexar experiments ($330,000) are
being paid for through grants from the National Institute for Global
Environmental Change and the National Science Foundation, respectively.

Kelly Prehn, who manages 1,600 acres in western Travis and eastern Blanco
counties, said he tends to clear new-growth cedar that is brushy and covers a
lot of area because nothing grows under it.

Prehn leaves the old-growth cedar because it provides shelter for birds such as
the black-capped vireo and golden-cheeked warbler, he said.

Owens, who has studied cedar on and off for 17 years, said the tree does block
out other plant growth and spreads readily in areas of the western United States
with low rainfall such as Texas.

"You have to wonder why it can do that and how it does it," the professor said.
"This study will be seeing whether it has any positive properties."

cosborn@statesman.com; 445-3871

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               18 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 14, 2005 Thursday

THE FANCLUB;
As far as some Austinites are concerned, it's cool to go without AC

BYLINE: Katy Barron, AMERICAN-STATESMANSTAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1407 words


Austinite Jim MacKay insists he's no different from you or me.

"I don't know that I've had physiological Spider-Man changes. I sweat. I'm hot.
It's not that," he says.

But to many people, a genetic abnormality is the only thing that could explain
how MacKay lives in a home without air conditioning. In July. In Texas. By
choice.

MacKay is not alone. Across the city are pockets of people who reject comfort
cooling. They adapt to the summer heat not by cranking the air, but by simply
flinging open the windows and turning on the fans.

When Stuart Cramer coined the term "air conditioning" in 1906, he was trying to
patent a device that would make the air in his textile mill more humid. To
"condition" the air meant to modify it. Today the words "air conditioning" seem
more appropriate in the Pavlovian sense, describing how our society reflexively
adjusts the thermostat downward as temperatures climb. Most Americans are
incredulous to learn of those who have resisted developing a thermostat habit,
because air conditioning is such a universal part of our lives. According to the
Energy Department's 2001 residential energy consumption survey, 77.5 percent of
American households have AC. But a sign outside a local Austin landmark, proudly
announcing that the Tavern restaurant and bar is air conditioned, is a visible
reminder that climate control was once considered a luxury.

Those who forgo AC typically do so out of a concern for the environment or their
health, but they're not necessarily counter-culture activists. Plain old inertia
has also played a role in developing this fellowship of fresh air.

MacKay's reasons are ideological. He is a self-described "lefty
environmentalist," a vegetarian who commutes the 10 miles to work by bike,
brings his own cup to Changos and believes in zero population growth. He views
AC as an unnecessary, fossil fuel-guzzling luxury. While he jokingly refers to
himself as a weirdo, he's not dogmatic.

"I'm not going to buy five acres in Wyoming and live off the land. I love
people, but I want us to be less consumption-oriented," he says.

MacKay's wife, Alex, is tolerant of his views but has a more pragmatic
explanation. "We like air conditioning, but we're procrastinators about a lot of
things, including upgrading the house, and AC isn't a priority," she says.

It's a belief that is hard to cling to when it's 100 degrees in the kitchen.
That was the case in September 2000, when Austin temperatures reached a record
112 degrees. "We suffered that week," MacKay admits.

But he says a few lifestyle adaptations make going without AC bearable on most
days. The couple stores photographs, fancy soaps, candles and chocolates in the
coolest rooms or in the fridge to keep them from melting. They do little cooking
during the summer months. Breakfast is cereal, and dinner is salad. Jim doesn't
bike home from work until the sun is down. At home, "I am frequently shirtless,"
he says.

Artist James Talbot goes without air conditioning in his South Austin home,
dubbed Casa Neverlandia. The lack of central air is just one wild feature of the
home, which has been recognized by numerous home design television shows and
shelter magazines for its outlandish design and eclectic touches, such as fire
poles and a tower that rises high above the tree line.

Talbot admits it's not comfortable in the summer. But he's more uncomfortable
with the idea of being wasteful. His energy bill shows he used just 173 kilowatt
hours in June. According to Austin Energy, the average residential usage during
the summer months, June to September, is about 1,200 kilowatt hours.

"For me (the house) is kind of a big tent with a few perks in it. You don't sit
around complaining about the weather when you're camping," he says. Instead, he
rises earlier in the summer. He wears light clothing and takes cold baths and
siestas. And at night he climbs his tower, lies down and tunes in to the natural
air currents outside as he tries to quiet his body before bed. "I try to drop a
few BTUs . . . It's a mental drop," he says.

Near the University of Texas campus, residents of Whitehall Co-op, Texas' oldest
housing cooperative, live without central air in a house built in 1896. Some
residents would prefer to have chilled air pumped in, but in an environment
ruled by consensus, it is usually easier to stick with the status quo.

"It often comes up in August or September, but by the time we get around to
looking into it, it has cooled off and we've forgotten," says resident Trish
Callahan.

Some residents have window units in their rooms, but the home's common spaces
are kept cool by nature and design. When that's not enough, residents rely on a
time-honored solution that has served generations of Austinites: Barton Springs
Pool. Many take advantage of free nighttime swimming at the springs in order to
get their core temperature down before bedtime.

Cherylyn Van Kirk, who produces an organic skin care line called Star Flower
Essentials, says natural health is the primary reason she does not turn on the
air conditioning in her 3,500-square-foot home in a West Austin subdivision.
Kirk believes in the power of old-fashioned sweat to rid the body of toxins. She
also believes fresh, not re-circulated, air is better for overall health.

"The whole concept is breathe good air, and a little sweat is good for you," she
says. When she gets overheated, she just takes a dip in her pool.

It helps that most of these homes are either old or custom-built to survive
Mother Nature's scorchers without help from plug-in appliances. Before air
conditioning, old homes such as the Whitehall residence used basic design
principles to keep occupants cool in the summer. High ceilings let hot air rise
above where the occupants lived and played. Window transoms kept air flowing,
and consideration was given to how homes were oriented in relation to the sun.
In addition to shady trees, high ceilings, transoms and ceiling fans, Whitehall
Co-op has two whole house fans, also called attic fans, that suck warm air out
and bring cooler air in. Such old-fashioned techniques work. On an evening in
late June, the temperature outside was 97 degrees. Inside Whitehall Co-op, the
dining hall felt pleasant with the ceiling fan whirling overhead.

Gayle Borst considers air conditioning a necessary evil in Texas but believes
homes with AC should still incorporate energy-efficient designs. Borst is
president and CEO of Stewardship Inc., an architecture firm that specializes in
sustainable design. She says proper north-south orientation, exterior shading
with landscaping or with pergolas, trellises and the like, and good insulation
and ventilation of the roof and attic are the keys to using less energy for
cooling. Today, new home design often ignores such basics because air
conditioning is taken for granted. It irritates Borst.

"I think it's lazy, sloppy, irresponsible design. I would say in all climates,
but particularly in a climate like this. Why burn it if you don't have to?"

That's the message most nonusers have for die-hard thermostat crankers. They
don't expect others to adopt their lifestyle, but they do hope they'll at least
consider cutting back. Their utility bills make a compelling argument. MacKay's
utility bill has never been more than $60, and that includes water and trash
collection fees.

Austinite Phyllis Thomson says living without air conditioning is a lifestyle
she evolved into. In her early years in Austin she couldn't afford to run her
air. Today it's a choice, but not one she advertises. She has a window unit that
she will turn on in certain situations, such as when a guest is staying
overnight or when the heat becomes unbearable, but most of the time she's
AC-free.

"I'm not doing this to make a statement. I just realized you can live without
using it. It's not a big deal," she says.

There are downsides. Her home sits close enough to the street for car exhaust to
blow through the window. And she recently bought a wine refrigerator to keep her
nicer bottles from aging too quickly.

But in general, she considers heat a state of mind. And peace of mind more than
compensates for putting up with it.

"It does feel good to conserve, to know that you're actually doing something
that's not creating a need for more energy," she says. "I don't know if proud is
the right word, but I feel good about it. It's a positive thing."

kbarron@statesman.com; 912-2519

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Even if you can't stand the heat, you can stay in this kitchen. Trish
Callahan, above, creates a vegetarian dinner at the Whitehall Co-op, where shade
from large trees helps keep residents cool. The building's architecture also
helps beat the high temperatures of Austin summers, with high ceilings and good
circulation through window transoms.
One of two attic fans removes hot air from the Whitehall Co-op, the oldest
housing cooperative in Texas. The residence has no central air conditioning.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               19 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday

Imports may seem foreign in your home

BYLINE: Katy Barron, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 800 words


Last week's end to the Target global bazaar has me thinking about destination
decor. You probably saw the commercials, featuring an elephant with all kinds of
home decor strapped to its back.

Target coined the term to describe its global bazaar, a large display area
dedicated to imports from various parts of the world. (By now, it has been
replaced by lawn and patio furniture for spring.)

The global bazaar stuff didn't exactly reek of authenticity, so I called Target
to be sure the goods weren't simply "inspired by" different countries. Target
spokeswoman Aimee Sands assured me that the products were "sourced directly from
the region they represent."

I saw faux distressed chairs and benches from Europe; painted tables, chests and
mirrors from India; votives, tea pots and lanterns from Asia; and ceramic bowls,
flower pots and garden furniture from Latin America. In creating the global
bazaar, Target simply took low-cost goods produced in (mostly) economically
developing countries and re-branded them as limited availability exotic home
furnishings. For a few brief weeks it was like having a miniature version of
Pier 1 tucked inside of Target. Genius!

I was drawn to the Polish water pitcher, then to the Indian candlesticks. But it
was the African mask made in Ghana that finally gave me pause. I pictured it in
my living room, then imagined sweating through a conversation about it with a
friend who spent her Peace Corps days in Africa. I knew within seconds of
questioning she would expose me as a fraud who couldn't pinpoint Ghana on a
globe.

This incongruity made me put everything in my basket back on the shelves. You
see, destination decor only works if you've actually set foot in the
destination. That's why I don't blame people whose houses look like they were
copied directly from the pages of a Pottery Barn catalog. At least it is an
American look and they're not pretending they live in the Taj Mahal.

All imports are not destination decor, of course. A beautiful Turkish rug would
fit in fine in your living room, even if you've never been to Istanbul. A
sophisticated Italian leather sofa could add elegance to any American room. But
decorative accents from foreign countries, such as painted figurines, temple
jars and ethnic masks are best viewed in context. And you can't provide the
proper context if you haven't visited the country of origin.

It's natural to come back from a trip overseas with a hankering to redecorate.
After a trip to London, I wanted to hang flower boxes and lace curtains, wear
all black and take up smoking. But even if you have been to a particular locale,
it's often best to stick to photographs to remind you of your trip. I brought
back miniature terra-cotta soldiers from China, but confess that they look out
of place propping up the extensive chick-lit collection on my bookshelves. It
must be incredibly insulting to be defending "Shopaholic Takes Manhattan,"
instead of the mausoleum of an ancient Chinese emperor.

Some Central Texans take the destination decor idea too far. They want to
recreate their destination entirely. As a result, the Hill Country is peppered
with Tuscany-style villas. Maybe on a warm Texas day, eyes squinted, fountains
spurting, vino in hand, they can convince themselves that they're in Tuscany.
But, mama mia! Who are these folks kidding? If I had that much money, I'd just
buy an authentic villa in Italy and stick with my Texas ranch house.

The truth is, no amount of money spent on destination decor will ever substitute
for the real thing. So if you're dreaming of a land far, far away while
shopping, put the Leaning Tower of Pisa salt and pepper shakers back on the
shelf and save those pennies for a plane ticket.

A furniture frenzy

And speaking of foreign countries . . . there was a stampede at the opening of
the new IKEA store in Edmonton, outside London. Yes, a stampede.

I thought the normally reserved Brits saved such behavior for soccer matches,
but apparently furniture shopping is just as competitive. One man was stabbed.
Five other people were hospitalized for injuries.

According to IKEA and The Associated Press, crowd control precautions were in
place for the midnight opening. But a much bigger crowd than anticipated, some
5,000 to 6,000 people, showed up for the opening night bargains, which included
leather sofas on sale for $84. The only thing reassuring about this incident is
the clear evidence that Americans are not the only crazed consumers in the
world.

I imagine if the proposed Austin-area IKEA store ever opens, they'll have to use
metal detectors and baggage screening machines to ensure that no gun-toting
Texans go buck wild over an inexpensive bedroom set. It's times like these when
I feel no guilt over paying full retail.

kbarron@statesman.com; 912-2519.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IKEA-mania hit new heights recently outside London, when the opening of
a new store caused a riot.
A mask from Ghana is a great decor piece -- if you've been to Ghana.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               20 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 7, 2005 Tuesday

Blair to push U.S. on global warming, more aid for Africa

BYLINE: Don Melvin, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 439 words


LONDON -- British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who put his political life on the
line to support the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, would like some favors returned
now, thank you very much.

He will meet President Bush in Washington today to ask for more help in fighting
global warming and African poverty.

But Blair is likely to come away from the meeting with far less than he is
seeking, administration officials, diplomats and analysts said.

In what appeared to be an effort to take some of the sting out of its
differences with Blair, the White House plans to announce today that it will
release $674 million in aid to Africa, drawn from money that has already been
appropriated by Congress.

Nearly $500 million of the money will go to food aid, with much of it directed
to Ethiopia and Eritrea, an administration official said on condition of
anonymity.

The administration's positions on global warming and Africa differ significantly
from the consensus Blair hopes to achieve next month at the G-8 summit of the
world's richest nations.

Blair wants the leaders attending the summit to agree to a statement
acknowledging the seriousness of climate change, along with a series of actions
for the short term and a set of principles for the longer term.

Bush opposes the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions, and he has opposed setting specific targets for progress.

On Africa, Blair wants nations to write off African debts to international
lending institutions, on the condition that the money go to education. And he
wants to double direct aid to Africa over the next five years, as the European
Union's 25 member nations recently agreed to do.

Administration officials have also signaled that the White House is not inclined
to commit itself to Blair's call for doubling aid to Africa. The United States
is the largest donor to the continent, although as expressed as a percentage of
national income, it lags Britain and other European countries.

Not long ago, Blair's relationship with Bush was the subject of much debate.
Bush is deeply unpopular in Britain, and Blair's critics called him "Bush's
poodle" -- a trained animal eager to obey his master's every command.

But the issue has largely disappeared amid hype over London's bid to host the
Olympics and turmoil over the European Union constitution. On Monday, Blair's
office said Britain will indefinitely postpone a referendum on the EU
constitution, which has been rejected by France and the Netherlands in recent
days.

dmelvin@coxnews.com

Additional material from The Los Angeles Times, The New York TImes and The
Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tony Blair: Is in Washington today to seek U.S. backing on initiatives.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               23 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 26, 2005 Sunday

Manufactured doubt, made in the U.S.A.;
Industries growing adept at manipulating science to suit their needs

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1061 words


WASHINGTON -- In the 1970s, facing the loss of millions of dollars in sales
because of fears that chemicals it produced were shredding the Earth's
protective ozone layer, DuPont Corp. fought for time.

It got what it wanted.

A carefully designed campaign by the Hill and Knowlton public relations firm
attacked the science behind the ozone depletion fears and delayed government
action for two years, enough time for DuPont to bring new, ozone-friendly
chemicals to market.

The campaign employed a tactic that is now being used by more and more
industries to ward off costly government action, says George Washington
University epidemiologist David Michaels.

He calls it "manufactured doubt."

By generating and publicizing uncertainty about the scientific underpinnings of
proposed action on air pollution, global warming, the health effects of tobacco
and other subjects, industries have been able to ward off regulation and buy
valuable time, Michaels said.

Now, with the Bush administration's skepticism about regulation, the
"manufactured doubt" tactic is more effective than ever before, Michaels wrote
in the current edition of Scientific American.

"Industry groups have tried to manipulate science no matter which party is in
power," he wrote, "but the efforts have grown more brazen since George W. Bush
became president. I believe it is fair to say that never in our history have
corporate interests been as successful as they are today in shaping science
policies to their desires."

Michaels' article was published shortly before The New York Times reported that
a White House official -- a former American Petroleum Industry lobbyist with no
scientific training -- had edited government reports on climate change research,
inserting numerous expressions of doubt.

The official, Philip Cooney, resigned his position at the White House Council on
Environmental Quality this month after the White House confirmed that he
repeatedly inserted phrases that played down links between greenhouse gases and
global warming. He has gone to work for ExxonMobil, according to industry
reports. The White House says the resignation was planned before the story
appeared.

Bob Hopkins, a spokesman for the White House Office of Science and Technology
Policy, said Michaels' article was a "pretty one-sided presentation."

"Advocates on all sides try to use data to support their policy goals," Hopkins
said. "This administration strongly believes that decisions should be made using
the best science available."

In the case of DuPont, a former Hill and Knowlton executive said the firm did
seek to delay government action, but did not bend or hide any facts in doing so.

After the first scientific paper warned in 1974 that chlorofluorocarbons,
chemicals widely used as coolants, solvents and aerosol propellants, were
responsible for a huge "hole" in the ozone layer protecting the Earth against
dangerous ultraviolet radiation, Hill and Knowlton set up a "quick response"
campaign to react to the findings and to temper critical press accounts.

According to a memorandum on the campaign written in 1989 by Howard Marder, then
a Hill and Knowlton senior vice president, DuPont wanted the firm "to help calm
fears, get better reporting of the issues and gain up to two or three years
before the government took action to ban" the chemicals.

When the evidence against CFCs mounted, DuPont dropped its opposition to a ban.
The chemicals were barred from aerosol sprays in 1978.

By that time, Marder wrote, "DuPont gained much-needed time to find scientific
answers to the allegations and to develop alternatives" to CFCs.

Marder, now a spokesman for the New York City Housing Authority, said that he
did not remember details of the memorandum but that his purpose at Hill and
Knowlton was to get the truth out.

"I would never obfuscate an issue, and I would never spin an issue," he said.
"My intention when I worked for Hill and Knowlton was to have the truth be
told."

Michaels, a former assistant secretary of energy in the Clinton administration,
acknowledged in an interview that an element of doubt was inevitable in
government regulatory decisions because they must be based on the best available
science, which by definition can never be absolute.

However, "corporations and others who manufacture dangerous products and
pollutants have realized that by adding manufactured uncertainty to the
equation, they can essentially stop the regulatory process from moving forward,"
he said.

He said consulting firms hired by industries review critical scientific findings
"and pull these studies apart."

"Industry is able to pick a key point that can destroy a regulation, and they
take that one on," he said. "The government scientists are just outgunned. They
use basic research, and when their research is attacked, they don't go back and
do more research. There's no funding for that."

"The vilification of threatening research as 'junk science' and the
corresponding sanctification of industry-commissioned research as 'sound
science' has become nothing less than standard operating procedure in some parts
of corporate America," he wrote in the magazine article.

Although the practice "goes back a long time," it was perfected by the tobacco
industry, Michaels said.

He said one tobacco company executive wrote in a memorandum, which later came to
light in tobacco litigation, that "doubt is our product, since it is the best
means of competing with as 'body of fact' that exists in the mind of the general
public" that smoking is linked to serious health problems.

William O'Keefe, CEO of the George C. Marshall Institute, a nonprofit
organization that has repeatedly promoted the views of scientists who question
the prevailing opinion that use of fossil fuels are raising the globe's
temperature, said he felt Michaels "had an agenda (in writing the article), and
he picked examples to promote it."

A former executive of the American Petroleum Institute, O'Keefe said Michaels
"takes the position that the government is always right and the private sector
is always wrong, and I don't believe that."

"My experience in 25 years in the petroleum industry is that companies are not
in business to harm their clients," he said.

If industry insists that regulations "meet the highest possible standards, I
don't know what's wrong with that," O'Keefe said.

jeffn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               26 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 21, 2005 Monday

Can your PC combat AIDS? Grid project is ready to try

BYLINE: David Ho, NEW YORK BUREAU

SECTION: TECH MONDAY; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 412 words


NEW YORK -- AIDS researchers are asking the world's computer users to join the
fight against the disease by donating the power of their idling PCs to the
search for new drugs.

The newly expanded FightAIDS@Home project, backed by the Scripps Research
Institute and IBM Corp., is an example of distributed, or grid, computing, which
can harness thousands of personal desktops and laptops to work together like one
of the world's most powerful supercomputers.

"There are 650 million PCs in the world, and the more people who get involved,
the more power we can devote to fighting AIDS and other significant diseases,"
said Stan Litow, president of the IBM International Foundation.

Grid technology, which breaks immense number-crunching tasks into small pieces,
has already been used to study climate change, gravity and cancer. The SETI@home
project, which began the modern era of Internet grid computing in 1999, searches
data for signs of extraterrestrial radio signals.

A smaller version of the AIDS project has run since 2000. It is now being taken
up by the World Community Grid, a humanitarian initiative that includes more
than 170,000 computers and is growing by thousands more each week.

The grid's first project, studying all the proteins in the human body to aid
medical research, is nearly complete. The cumulative processing power places the
grid among the world's top 10 supercomputers, IBM said. The software used to
manage the grid is licensed from Austin's United Devices Inc.

The new project on AIDS drugs comes as HIV is evolving to resist current
treatments.

The effort uses home computers to test thousands of chemical compounds against
variations of a protein found in HIV, one combination at a time, said Arthur
Olson, a molecular biology professor at the private Scripps Research Institute
in La Jolla, Calif.

He said the project will seek the compounds that prevent the most variations of
the virus from reproducing. The most promising will undergo laboratory testing.

Researchers will look at compounds whose effects resemble those of drugs that
have allowed many people infected with HIV to slow the virus' progress.

To participate, computer users download free software from
www.worldcommunitygrid.org that allows their otherwise unused PCs to work.

The software, available for Windows and Linux operating systems displays the
research in progress in 3D simulations showing the compounds looking for the
best way to "dock" with the virus protein.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               29 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 10, 2005 Monday

Remember winter? It's returning;
Mild weather now expected to give way to subfreezing temperatures by midweek

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 456 words


Get ready for a return of winter this week in the form of an Arctic outbreak
that could be more severe than the one we felt shortly before Christmas.

Some meteorologists, watching such reliable global predictors as oscillating air
pressure over Tahiti in the South Pacific and out in the North Atlantic, foresee
a chill as soon as Wednesday that could drop temperatures below freezing by
Thursday and each night through the weekend and into next week.

Accuweather.com meteorologist Joe Bastardi, who forecast the freak pre-Christmas
snows south of Interstate 10 two weeks before they occurred, worries about a
possible freeze striking the citrus crop in the lower Rio Grande Valley by the
weekend, with the possibility of snow or ice on the ground there beforehand.

Lower Colorado River Authority meteorologist Bob Rose declined to make any
predictions about the Valley, but he agreed that Austin is likely to get very
chilly soon.

"This is going to be some very cold air," he said, because it will come over the
Arctic Circle from Siberia, where temperatures are 40 to 50 degrees below zero.

Such extreme temperatures aren't expected to make it as far south as Central
Texas, of course, but there could be less moderation than in the pre-Christmas
Siberian cold.

"Unlike last time," Rose said, "there's considerable snow on the ground across
Canada and the Plains states, so this air mass may not (warm) very much as it
travels south."

There won't be much obvious warning of what's coming: The highs today and
Tuesday are expected to be in the 70s.

Rose expects a trough of low pressure from the Gulf of Alaska and an
accompanying cold front to arrive Wednesday, bringing possible thunderstorms,
strong winds and up to an inch of rain.

That low is expected to merge with another one diving south from western Canada,
creating one deep trough extending from northern Canada into South Texas.

That trough will funnel the bitter Siberian cold into Texas on Thursday.

By then, "high temperatures are forecast to reach only the upper 30s to low
40s," Rose said, "with low temperatures falling to the 20s."

Blame the current weak El Nio, the eastern Pacific weathermaker, for this latest
extreme in our yo-yo winter.

"Weak El Nio winters are the wildest," Bastardi said.

After the wettest November in Austin history, December ended up as one of the
driest on record, Rose said.

December began mild but turned cold in its third week, then warmed up again
before another short cold snap in the new year, followed by the current warm
spell. But this cold snap may stay longer than the last one.

"This pattern of extremes will likely continue into February," Rose said, "with
the possibility for more extreme cold."

dstanley@statesman.com; 445-3629

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               30 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday

FAREWELL TO A SOGGY YEAR;
A month-by-month look at Austin's weather in 2004

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 498 words


Our mild weather since Christmas is expected to continue for at least a few more
days, but the ground that's been drying since the flooding rains of November
could soon get wet all over again.

Winter isn't over, either, and the mild, shirt-sleeve temperatures we've enjoyed
are bound to return to seasonal norms, perhaps later this week.

"Certainly back into the 30s and 50s," said KVET-FM meteorologist Troy Kimmel.
"Will we get colder air than that? We'll just have to see. But all indications
are we'll probably get back into the wet weather pattern."

Like other area meteorologists, Kimmel relies on Accuweather.com meteorologist
Joe Bastardi's long-range guidance. Bastardi's forecasts are based on the
teleconnections of atmospheric changes around the globe -- such that a storm in
Japan one week might mean something similar happening in Dallas a week or so
later.

Bastardi, who successfully predicted last month's unusual South Texas snow two
weeks beforehand, sees us getting a warmer-than-usual January, followed by a
February reminiscent of Austin's bitter cold the week before Christmas.

"I think December was a preview of a longer, stronger endgame to the winter,"
Bastardi has written.

The 2005 Old Farmer's Almanac agrees, calling for a very cold February in Texas.

But, as always, warmth lies ahead eventually. Indeed, with the expected retreat
later this year of the El Nio weathermaker that helped make 2004 the third
wettest year since rainfall records were first kept in Austin in 1856, we could
find the new year turning warmer and drier than what we've become used to in the
past 12 months.

"El Nio is forecast to fade back to a neutral pattern by summer," said Lower
Colorado River Authority meteorologist Bob Rose. "So we're probably looking at a
warmer and drier trend for the second half of the year."

It would almost be nice to have a normal summer again, after the below-average
temperatures of 2004. They were spurred by record-breaking rainfall in June,
which made the ground too wet for the air to support the average of 10
triple-digit days that our summers usually include.

The cooling effect of the wet ground also was abetted by an unusual series of
summer cold fronts -- "at least three in July and three in August," Rose said.
"They kept our temperatures well below normal."

A possible influence this summer could be the sun-spot cycle, which some weather
research has correlated with rainfall patterns. Solar researchers expect the
cycle to diminish by summer to a minimum of releases of extra solar energy (the
so-called "spots" on the sun's face), which might mean that instead of El Nio
fading to neutral, as it usually does, it might reverse all the way to a La Nia
pattern. In the past, La Nia has meant drought for Central Texas.

"I have a hard enough time predicting seven days out," Kimmel said. "So I'm not
going to poke my head seven months out. But long-range predictions do see a
drier pattern for us."

dstanley@statesman.com; 445-3629

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The balmy temperatures John Lopez and Cosmo enjoyed Saturday at
Auditorium Shores are expected to cool considerably later this week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               31 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 27, 2005 Thursday

Perry's view: Tax relief and schools;
Governor proposes tax cap;
Plan similar to California law would limit appraisal increases to 3%

BYLINE: Mike Ward, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1420 words


Gov. Rick Perry called on lawmakers Wednesday to enact a 3 percent annual cap on
increases in property tax appraisals, a change that could put the brakes on
fast-growing levies for millions of homeowners across Texas.

"It is time to cut property taxes for the hardworking people of Texas," Perry
told a joint session of the Legislature in his wide-ranging State of the State
speech that touched on such topics as abortion and toll roads.

"Texans don't like taxation without representation, and they are sick and tired
of taxation by valuation. The time has come to draw a line in the sand for the
taxpayer." The proposal could become part of a larger effort to create a new
school finance system by overhauling the state's property tax system.

Under Perry's plan, similar to California's anti-tax Proposition 13 approved 25
years ago, counties, cities and other taxing entities would be allowed to raise
appraised values on homes up to 3 percent a year, instead of 10 percent, the
current cap. Tax rate increases would not be capped.

But to keep taxing entities from jacking up the rate, Perry proposed adopting a
program used in Lubbock that automatically lowers tax rates when tax appraisals
go up. "Let's bring Lubbock's truth-in-taxation plan to every local jurisdiction
in Texas," he said.

According to Lubbock officials who attended Wednesday's speech, city officials
lower their tax rate so they generate the same amount of revenue as the year
before. Then, they vote on whether to raise or lower the rate. Perry said the
program saved Lubbock property owners $2 million two years ago.

"It's not a tax cut when your rate goes down if your total tax bill goes up,"
Perry said.

Taxpayer and conservative groups applauded the proposal; counties and cities
criticized it.

Frank Sturzl, executive director of the Texas Municipal League, said his
organization -- which represents Texas cities and towns -- opposes lowering the
10 percent cap.

Perry's plan would shift the tax burden from people whose property values
increase each year to people whose values stay the same or decrease, Sturzl
said. But the cap would be lifted when a property is sold, allowing the
appraised value to increase to the market value. As a result, homeowners living
next to each other could pay taxes at different levels.

"How do you justify one person paying more for city services than another person
who owns the same kind of property?" Sturzl said.

Last summer, Perry proposed a 3 percent appraisal cap while also proposing that
yearly property tax revenue for localities be capped. The new proposal drops the
revenue cap.

During the past decade, Perry aides said, the property-tax burden has shifted
dramatically from businesses to single-family homeowners. Single-family homes
grew from 35 percent of total appraised property in 1992 to 44 percent in 2002,
while the value of industrial property declined from 7 percent to 5.7 percent of
the market.

Senate and House leaders, who have endorsed a new statewide property tax to pay
for schools, said they were intrigued by Perry's proposal. But neither Lt. Gov.
David Dewhurst nor House Speaker Tom Craddick would rate its chances of passage.

"Do we have 100 votes? I don't know," Craddick said referring to the two-thirds
majority he needs to approve tax bills. "There's a real mixture of feelings."

California voters outraged by rising property taxes approved Proposition 13 in
the 1970s, rolling back appraisals and limiting the property tax rate in all
taxing jurisdictions to 1 percent of market value. Property appraisals cannot
increase more than 2 percent a year, though homes are restored to full market
value when they are sold.

During his 55-minute speech Wednesday, Perry also made education reform a key
theme -- calling for changes in how Texas pays for public schools, measures
their performance, provides incentives to teachers, allows parents to use
vouchers to get their children out of low-performing schools and dispatches
"turn-around teams" to help improve troubled schools. He called for more
accountability in school spending.

"We have a once-in a generation opportunity to make sure children of every
background are given a chance in life," Perry said. "Our challenge in education
is to go from good to great by empowering children of modest means to live
unlimited dreams. We still have an achievement gap in Texas schools that will be
an opportunity gap when today's students become tomorrow's workers."

To build a better school system, the governor said Texas must continue
increasing its revenues -- through tax policies that encourage a vibrant
business climate, incentives programs to nurture emerging technologies and
programs such as the Texas Enterprise Fund. The fund, used to provide incentives
for businesses to relocate in Texas, is credited is with adding up to tens of
thousands of potential jobs to Texas' economy.

In just two years, Perry said, Texas has gone from a $10 billion state budget
deficit to anticipated revenues of $6 billion more than what it's spending in
the current budget.

Within hours of his speech, Perry on Wednesday made public his budget priorities
for the next two years: a $592 million wish-list that would restore proposed
cuts to some human-services programs and put additional money in programs,
including incentives for filmmakers and tourism, a new pharmacy school in
Kingsville, student scholarship programs and creating a network of inspectors
general.

Despite the big-ticket issues facing lawmakers, Perry said Texas stands on the
brink of what he called a "new era of possibility" -- a time when the economy is
rebounding and vibrant, when "our future is limitless."

"Our work is before us," Perry said. "It cannot be passed to future legislatures
and must not be passed to future generations.  May we boldly seize the moment
with singular unity.  And may we build a Texas of unlimited possibility."

mward@statesman.com; 445-1712

(box)

Reaction to Gov. Rick Perry's speech

'One of the best speeches I have ever heard him give. I applaud the high
standards Governor Perry has set for Texas.'

Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst

'Governor Perry set the bar for the 79th Legislative Session with his tremendous
State of the State Address.'

House Speaker Tom Craddick

'Like so much we have seen from this governor, his ideas are about surface shine
and not about depth. After all the hoopla, we still have no clear idea of where
the governor wants to go on public education, how he wants to get there and what
he thinks we'll have when we arrive.'

Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn

'Any effort to defund neighborhood schools this session, especially through
vouchers, is bad for Texas kids. If Governor Perry really supports neighborhood
schools, he can't support vouchers.'

Kathy Miller, president of Texas Freedom Network, a group that monitors social
conservatism in government, on Perry's ideas for education reform

'The people of South Texas and the entire border region owe Governor Perry a
debt of gratitude for his constant and unwavering support of the Rangel
College.'

State Rep. Juan Escobar, D-Kingsville, on Perry's proposal to fully fund a new
pharmacy school at Texas A&M University in Kingsville

"Governor Perry is to be commended for making asbestos lawsuit reform a priority
during the 79th Legislature. Asbestos litigation -- one of the worst types of
lawsuit abuse in our courts today -- is the largest single contributor to the
continued rise in U.S. tort costs.'

Kirsten Voinis, spokeswoman for Citizens Against Lawsuit Abuse of Central Texas,
a legal reform watchdog group

'We feel it was a good speech in terms of style and preparation and delivery,
but it just seemed to not have any connection with the true reality of the state
and the people in my district.'

State Rep. Jim Dunnam, D-Waco, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus

'Texas counties and cities would unfairly become the scapegoats for Texas'
school property tax problem.'

Sam Seale, executive director, Texas Association of Counties

'The governor is setting the right tone by demanding a higher level of
accountability for performance in the classrooms and on the balance sheets.'

Michael Quinn Sullivan, vice president of the Texas Public Policy Foundation

(box)

Other proposals

* Create a broad-based, low-rate business tax.

* Restore dental, vision and mental-health benefits in Children's Health
Insurance Program.

* Require parental consent for minors to have abortions.

* Ban human cloning.

* Don't toll existing lanes on highways.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A packed House chamber applauded armed service members introduced at
the end of Gov. Rick Perry's State of the State address on Wednesday. The
state's top officeholders had seats up front: (from left, including second row)
Railroad Commissioner Michael Williams, Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn,
Texas Supreme Court Justice Nathan Hecht, Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson,
Railroad Commissioner Charles Matthews and Agriculture Commissioner Susan Combs.

Gov. Rick Perry said he hopes to 'build a Texas of unlimited possibility.'
Gov. Rick Perry's State of the State speech was the third for him and his wife,
Anita Perry. The biennial speech was delivered to a joint session of the state
House and Senate in the House chamber. The 55-minute address covered subjects
ranging from abortion to toll roads.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               33 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 5, 2005 Saturday

Records link GOP, business efforts;
Corporate money paid for list used to get out the vote, tout candidates

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1091 words


As a California phone bank was urging a select group of Texans to vote for
Republican legislative candidates during the final days of the 2002 election,
Texas Association of Business President Bill Hammond was touting those
candidates in a letter mailed to the same likely GOP voters.

It was no coincidence that the phone calls and Hammond's letter targeted the
same list, created with corporate money from Texans for a Republican Majority, a
political committee led by U.S. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Sugar Land.

The parallel events, revealed in documents obtained by the Austin
American-Statesman, provide further evidence that GOP fund-raisers and backers
may have used corporate contributions to coordinate their election efforts and
support individual candidates. State law prohibits using corporate money for
political activity, which both groups deny doing, but a Travis County grand jury
indicted three Republican consultants last September as part of a two-year
criminal investigation.

The two groups' responses to the latest revelations also demonstrate that their
versions of what happened in 2002 continue to change over time.

A year ago, Hammond, through his lawyer Andy Taylor, told the American-Statesman
that the California phone bank, Contact America, billed TAB by mistake and the
state's largest business organization never used the phone bank's mailing list.

Now documents, including e-mails, invoices and voided checks, show that TAB did
use the mailing list for a letter-writing campaign that complemented
get-out-the-vote efforts by Texans for a Republican Majority.

Lawyers for Democrats accuse the two organizations of conspiring to circumvent a
law barring corporate money from being spent on political activity. Taylor and
Terry Scarborough, who represents Texans for a Republican Majority, said their
clients never used corporate money to advocate the election or defeat of any
candidate.

"With corporate money they identified voters in specific districts, they mailed
endorsement letters to those voters and then made get-out-the-vote calls to the
voters," said Austin lawyer Cris Feldman, who is suing both groups on behalf of
Democrats. "If that's not electioneering, what is?"

Taylor said TAB should be judged on its words to voters, not its actions.

"Under the First Amendment, it's the content of the speech, not the motivation
of the speaker that counts," Taylor said.

TAB has refused to identify the corporations that donated $1.9 million to send 4
million pieces of mail to likely voters in two dozen crucial legislative races,
claiming that the mail was protected speech under the First Amendment and not
regulated by campaign finance disclosure laws.

In his letter, Hammond wrote that the GOP legislative candidates would "stand"
with TAB and support its goals.

For example, Austin Republican Todd Baxter was challenging then-Rep. Ann
Kitchen, a Democrat.

"Todd Baxter stands with us in promoting the principles that will ensure Texas
remains a leader in creating new jobs . . ." Hammond wrote. "Todd Baxter also
agrees that we must hold the line on new and higher taxes . . . and Todd
understands the importance of low taxes to a good business climate in Texas."

A year ago Hammond, through his lawyer, said he believed that TAB never sent the
letters.

Last week TAB's printer, Bob Thomas of Thomas Graphics in Austin, disclosed that
the letter was mailed, calling it "TAB's endorsement letter," a characterization
that Taylor disputes.

Taylor said the letter avoids the endorsement tag because it never used
so-called magic words such as "support" or "vote for" a particular candidate.
Feldman argues that "magic words" is not the legal test and that Hammond's
letter is an endorsement. "If it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's
a duck," he said.

Here's how TAB and Texans for a Republican Majority worked together on the
Contact America project:

* John Colyandro, executive director of the Republican political committee,
hired the phone bank, helped write the questions for an October telephone survey
that identified likely GOP voters and planned for a follow-up letter campaign to
those voters. He also copied his work to Jim Ellis, a DeLay aide who monitored
Colyandro's activities for his boss. Colyandro also had Contact America send its
$65,175 bill to TAB.

* Hammond forwarded Contact America's telephone scripts to TAB's lawyer for
review, then approved paying the bill with corporate money before voiding the
check days later. Hammond, through his lawyer, said he doesn't remember why he
voided TAB's check to Contact America.

* Following Colyandro's instructions, Contact America sent the mailing list to
TAB's printer, Thomas Graphics. TAB had been mailing its ads to a broader
audience, but the phone bank's list gave Hammond a select audience of likely GOP
voters to send his letter.

* Colyandro ultimately paid the $65,175 bill with corporate money, then spent an
additional $48,039 from individuals to have Contact America call likely GOP
voters again.

Colyandro, Ellis and Warren Robold, DeLay's top fund-raiser, have been indicted
on charges of violating state election laws.

When the criminal investigation began more than two years ago, officials with
TAB and Texans for a Republican Majority said they did not work together. But in
recent months it has been shown that Hammond and Colyandro worked together on
TAB's mailers.

Colyandro and his lieutenants met regularly with candidates. They demanded and
got the candidates' campaign plans. Kevin Brannon, a consultant who worked for
Colyandro, also briefed at least one candidate about TAB's mailing program.

While Taylor contends that TAB never coordinated its plans with candidates,
Feldman insists the organizations circumvented state law.

"There was a concerted effort and a game plan to run roughshod over the state's
100-year ban against using corporate money for political purposes," Feldman
said.

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617

(box)

TAB letters helped candidates

Excerpts from one of the Texas Association of Business letters to targeted
voters about Republican Glenda Dawson of Pearland, who ultimately won her race
for the Legislature.

'Specifically, Glenda Dawson believes deeply that we need property tax relief
for local homeowners and businesses to spur the economy. Glenda also agrees that
we don't need any new taxes in Texas.'

'Glenda Dawson believes Texans already pay more than their fair share in taxes,
and Glenda understands the importance of low taxes to a good business climate in
Texas.'

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Texas Association of Business President Bill Hammond touted candidates
in letters mailed to likely Republican voters.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               34 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 12, 2005 Saturday

Athletes not making the grade hit UT hard

BYLINE: John Maher, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1185 words


Losing nine athletes to academic issues in recent days has been a "wake-up call"
for the University of Texas, the school's athletic director said Friday.

The men's basketball team has lost its leading scorer and rebounder, the
baseball team is without its top pitcher, and the football team will practice
this spring without its heir apparent at running back -- all sidelined by poor
grades or inadequate course credits.

"It's bad that kids got hurt, but it's a wake-up call for everybody," Men's
Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds said. "It's a defining moment for everybody."

But Dodds and Women's Athletic Director Chris Plonsky could not point to a
single reason or trend for the rash of athletes being declared ineligible this
semester.

"There's a story with each one," Dodds said, but privacy laws prevent him from
telling those stories.

Rather, they point to more stringent National Collegiate Athletic Association
rules and the overall academic climate at UT that make it a challenge to keep
the "student" in "student-athlete" -- even at a university that spends $1.6
million a year on academic assistance for its athletes.

Athletes must meet eligibility standards of both the university and the NCAA.

NCAA standards were toughened in 2003 to require athletes to have completed 40
percent of credits toward a degree by the end of their second year of school, 60
percent after the third year and 80 percent after the fourth. Previously, those
percentages were 25-50-75.

The new 40 percent threshold for sophomores has proved to the biggest obstacle,
the UT officials said.

"That absolutely will impact our world because they're asking the youngster to
have 40 percent of their degree credits done after their second year, which no
other student on campus has that requirement," Dodds said.

At the same time, the NCAA lowered its admission standards, adopting a sliding
scale for SAT scores for athletes. An athlete with a high school grade-point
average of 3.55 or higher, for instance, could just sign his name on the SAT,
get the minimum 400 score and still qualify for admission under the NCAA
guidelines.

"You don't have to be the student you used to be to get into an institution,"
Dodds said. "They've kind of built a trap for us to get into."

That trap snapped shut several times this semester, beginning with the news that
star basketball player P.J. Tucker would not play once the spring semester began
because he had not passed the necessary six hours in the fall; he remains
enrolled this spring.

Then, baseball pitcher Sam LeCure was dismissed from the university because his
grade-point average fell below 2.0; LeCure made an unsuccessful appeal to a
federal judge to try to stay in school, citing a learning disability caused by
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

This week, the football team announced that two starters and one backup would
miss spring drills because of unspecified academic issues.

Those failures occurred despite a system set up to help athletes make the grade
at UT. Dodds said UT spends as much per athlete on academic support as any
university in the country, including $130,000 a year for upgrading computers and
other equipment.

In the wake of the recent problems, Dodds and Plonsky said they are looking into
changes in the academic support system. Among the plans is to make Assistant
Athletic Director Brian Davis responsible only for the football team, not all
nine men's programs that he currently oversees.

Including Davis, UT athletics employs four full-time counselors, an
administrative assistant and a life skills/career counselor shared with the
women's teams. In addition, UT uses approximately 60 tutors and mentors who work
four to 20 hours per week, and the department's compliance office, which makes
sure the university stays in step with NCAA rules, also spends some of its time
on academics.

In all, about 20 employees are in some way devoted to academics, school
officials said.

At least 10 hours of study hall a week is required for all first-year athletes,
Davis said. Study hall is also mandatory for upperclassmen deemed to have grade
problems or special needs. Class attendance is also checked.

Dodds said that the department tries to give athletes as much support as
possible the first two years in the hope they can then be mainstreamed.

"Then they can walk on their own; they can run on their own; they can fly on
their own," Dodds said.

In addition to meeting NCAA standards, athletes must meet the same criteria for
all students at UT. Students who've taken 15 to 44 credit hours, for example,
are placed on academic probation if their GPA falls below 2.0 and are dismissed
if it falls below 1.7.

Dodds blames some of the athletes' problems on an increasingly tougher academic
environment at UT, particularly in the past five years.

"You can't say, 'OK, let's put everybody over here.' There's no 'over here' to
put them. They go out there, they're in diverse curriculums, and they meet the
real world head on. Plus, they've got a full-time job in athletics. Their jobs
are hard."

More sobering news could arrive when the NCAA sends out its first-ever report
cards as soon as next week.

Though UT officials have expressed confidence they'll fare well there, the
football program has had some of the worst graduation rates among all Division
I-A programs in the past two years.

The NCAA's most recent graduation report showed that only 27 percent of Longhorn
football players who were freshmen in 1997-98 had graduated by 2004, the worst
rate in the Big 12 Conference and third-worst among 117 NCAA major football
programs. By comparison, the graduation rate for all UT students in that class
was 71 percent; the rate for all athletes was 52 percent.

To improve his team's rates, football coach Mack Brown says he now strongly
factors academics into the recruiting process.

"We have to look at who can pass," Brown said. "Academics are something we've
always been concerned about, but (recruiting) continually is getting tougher
because of the school."

In the past, poor graduation rates led to bad publicity for a school but no real
penalties. That's about to change.

Last month at a convention near Dallas, the NCAA adopted an Academic Performance
Program aimed at increasing graduation rates. Schools will now receive report
cards for individual sports that measure their short-term academic progress rate
and their long-term graduation success rate.

The first set of reports, to be made public by the NCAA late this month, will
allow universities to see how they stack up. In coming years, penalties will
accompany poor performance. A football team, for example, could lose as many as
nine scholarships if its scores are bad enough, and chronic offenders could be
banned from postseason tournaments and bowl games or even lose their NCAA
membership.

UT officials think they're fine by the new standards, but some areas remain
gray.

"We're not sure where everyone else is," Dodds said. "We don't know whether
we're good, bad or indifferent."

jmaher@statesman.com; 445-3956

Staff writer Suzanne Halliburton contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Men's basketball: P.J. Tucker, sophomore forward: Tucker was the team's
leading scorer and rebounder when he was declared ineligible. Texas has lost
four of five games since then.
Football: Selvin Young, junior running back; Larry Dibbles, junior defensive
tackle; Erick Jackson, freshman cornerback: All three will miss spring practice
but are expected to return next season. Young's absence may be the most crucial:
He missed almost all of the 2004 season with a broken ankle but is favored to be
the starting tailback next season.
Baseball: Hunter Harris, senior outfielder; Sam LeCure, junior pitcher: LeCure,
who was dismissed from school, was expected to have been the team's top starting
pitcher. He unsuccessfully asked a federal judge to intervene, claiming that the
university did not give him suitable accommodations for a learning disability.
Three other baseball players -- sophomore Nick Peoples, sophomore transfer
Thomas Incaviglia and freshman Preston Clark -- have not played because of
academic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               35 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 26, 2005 Saturday

Accord Hybrid has stuff you can't refuse

BYLINE: Pete Szilagyi, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E5

LENGTH: 781 words


Honda's Accord Hybrid is finally at dealerships, and no one will be surprised to
learn it's another intelligently conceived and executed model from a company
known for smart products.

Environmentally conscious drivers will view this car's hybrid gas-electric
powertrain as an effective and overdue way to save fuel and reduce greenhouse
gases. Honda accountants appear to view the same powertrain as just another
high-end option to bundle with other luxury add-ons for a higher sticker price.

That's the cynic in me talking, and, to be fair, Honda has done more on the
environmental front than any other manufacturer except perhaps Toyota. Still,
what are we to think when the least expensive version of the Accord Hybrid tops
$30,000? The Accord car line starts at $16,800. Why not a $22,000 or $25,000
Accord Hybrid? Why can't I have a Hybrid without leather seats?

My chilly attitude melted during a week's test drive of a 2005 Accord Hybrid
with navigation system ($32,655). Trips included a 275-mile loop through Texas's
Big Bend with a full carload and the typical errands of the workweek. None of
the driving was abstemious in an attempt to save fuel.

Overall fuel mileage was 28.8, lower than the typically inflated  EPA estimates
of 29 city and 37 highway and probably 10 mpg fewer than what could be expected
from Toyota's Prius and its more complex hybrid system.

Nevertheless, the Accord Hybrid delivers just as advertised -- a powerful V-6
sedan with the gas mileage of a four-cylinder car. For a car with the Accord's
vigorous performance, 28.8 mpg is quite a welcome number.

During easy driving, steady speed and no sharp grades, the Accord's V-6 alone
powers the car. When extra juice is needed, a thin 14-kilowatt electric motor
switches on, powered by a 144-volt battery pack.

When the Accord slows and coasts, the electric motor acts as a generator and
recharges the batteries. The V-6 also charges the batteries in some situations,
and the car never needs to be plugged in.

Additional devices conserve fuel. As with all hybrids, the Honda's gas engine
switches off when the vehicle comes to a stop. It restarts immediately when the
driver's foot leaves the brake. Also, the engine management computer shuts off
three of the V-6's cylinders at steady cruise speeds. Both systems require no
driver input and are pretty much seamless.

Drivers monitor the hybrid system  on a small LCD that indicates battery charge
level, average fuel mileage and  the electric motor's activity. Honda lists the
hybrid system at 255 horsepower, 15 more than the V-6 Accord. It feels at least
that robust, maybe more. It's substantially quicker than other auto hybrids, as
well as most V-6s in its price range, and it will leave a conventional V-6
Accord behind in a dash away from a traffic light.

Aside from the powertrain, the Accord Hybrid is pretty much a max trim level
Accord EX. The only option is the $2,000 navigation system, which has numerous
voice commands and a more user-friendly interface than most.

Equipment is top shelf: heated and leather-trimmed seats, stereo with 120 watts
and a 6-disc changer, XM satellite radio receiver, automatic climate control,
alloy wheels, twin air conditioning compressors, and the full complement of
airbags.

More to like: the roomy cabin, exceptionally comfortable front seats, high level
of build quality, steady ride and handling. Honda says the IRS will allow a
one-time $2,000 tax deduction to Hybrid buyers.

Three negatives, however: There's no spare tire (instead, a can of instant
sealant and a small air compressor are provided) and no electronic anti-skid
system, an important safety feature typically available on cars in this price
range. Also, queues are forming at Honda dealers; like the neighborhood deli,
take a number and wait.

Pete Szilagyi answers questions about cars at petesz@macconnect.com.

(box)

Consumer information

for the 2005 Honda Accord Hybrid

Base price: $30,140

Options on test vehicle (navigation system): $2,000

Freight: $515

Total: $32,655

Approx. state tax, title, license: $2,190

Sample financing: $6,969 down (20 percent), balance financed for 48 months at 6
percent. Monthly payments $655.

EPA mileage estimates: 29 city, 37 highway; regular fuel

Safety equipment: Front airbags, side-torso airbags, side curtain airbags and
anti-lock brakes standard

Drive: Front wheels

Where made: Marysville, Ohio

Consumer information is provided by Honda. Payments are based on prevailing
rates for a 48-month new car loan.

Summary:

Highs: Fuel efficiency, power, quality, polish, comfort

Lows: Forced to buy unnecessary luxury options

Bottom line: Welcome, but unaffordable to much of Honda's customer base

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: For a hybrid, Honda's Accord has plenty of power.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               36 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 6, 2005 Wednesday

Salut, Texas;
Drink a toast to the 20th food and wine festival with three of its founders

BYLINE: Kitty Crider, Dale Rice, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1935 words


In 1986 a small group of culinary pioneers had a vision: create a festival to
showcase Texas' emerging cuisine and wine.  The time was right, the talent was
there, and the Texas Hill Country Wine & Food Festival was born, a small,
Austin-based event that attracted a few hundred people. This week the festival
-- now in partnership with Saveur magazine -- celebrates its 20th festival over
four days with 40 events from a barbecue at an exotic game ranch to a fine wine
auction at the Four Seasons Hotel to a new music and food extravaganza on
Auditorium Shores. The annual spring fest has become one of the country's
premiere wine and food events, attracting thousands of people, 80 wineries and
the best chefs of Texas and beyond. During the years, Texas food and wine have
made a mark on the national palate. And the world has made its mark on what is
served in Texas. Today, three acclaimed founders of the festival -- vintner
Susan Auler and chefs Stephan Pyles and Robert Del Grande -- reflect on the
Texas table then and now.

-- Kitty Crider and Dale Rice

This year, festival creates a village of good eats and drink along with 40 other
events

The Saveur Texas Hill Country Wine & Food Festival is Thursday through Sunday.
In addition to Texas chefs, headliners include Wolfgang Puck, Todd English,
Diana Kennedy, Tyler Florence, Claudine Pepin and 80 wineries. A complete list
of the 40 events is available at texaswineandfood.org and ticket sales have been
extended through today.

Tickets will be sold at an Auditorium Shores box office for the Village at the
Shores, a new two-day family event featuring food, wine and music Saturday and
Sunday noon-6 p.m. Ticket prices for the Village are $45 each day or $55 for
both days. More information can be obtained by calling 542-WINE (9463) today or
478-7211 after today.

Saluting Hill Country harvests

For Susan Auler, festival put the

Texas wine industry on the map

When Susan Auler founded the Texas Hill Country Wine & Food Festival in 1986,
there were only three wineries in the Hill Country and a handful in Texas.

Like Susan and Ed Auler's Fall Creek Vineyards at that time, most of the
wineries relied almost exclusively on the main Bordeaux grapes for their
products.

Today, there are 16 wineries in the Hill Country and nearly 100 in Texas. Along
with the Aulers, many of the winemakers are experimenting with other varietals,
such as tempranillo from Spain, sangiovese from Italy and viognier from the
Rhone Valley of France.

That number and range of Lone Star wineries reflect the expansion in the Texas
wine industry since the wine and food festival was launched.

Yet, many Texans aren't even aware of that.

"It still amazes me how many people in Texas don't realize we have a wine
industry," Auler says. "But with 100 wineries, we now have a critical mass
touching a lot more people than a dozen wineries did 20 years ago."

When the festival began, it had two primary goals: to showcase the region's wine
and food and to help promote the area as a wine entity.

That was important to the Aulers and other early Texas vintners because they
wanted to establish a Texas Hill Country appellation -- an official government
designation for wine produced and bottled in the region.

To do that, they needed to demonstrate there was an identifiable geographic area
of similar soil and climate conditions, which was easy enough. But the second
requirement was that the area be a known wine region, which the festival helped
establish.

That's why they called it the Texas Hill Country Wine & Food Festival.

"It's a mouthful," Auler laughs, "but that's the reason."

Since that time, Auler has observed significant changes in both the food and
wine touted by the festival.

Southwestern cuisine was the cutting-edge culinary trend at the time, she says.
Now, a host of global influences -- from Asian to Latin American -- flavor the
food served in Texas.

The level of sophistication has spread across the board as well, Auler says.
Thirty years ago, she says, the only white-tablecloth restaurants were French.
Today, they reflect all types of cuisine.

Since 1986, Texas wines have improved significantly in quality, winning dozens
of gold medals in international competitions.

Texas winemakers are expanding well beyond the basic French grapes, learning
from growers in other parts of Europe, Australia and South America.

"Now we're experimenting with many others," she says.

Since it can take as long as eight years for some vines to reach maturity for
wine, grapes being planted now in the Hill Country may again alter the content
of the region's wine cup.

"The future's pretty exciting," Auler says, adding a prediction: "There will be
big changes in the next 10 years."

Stephan Pyles brought a global dimension to fine food in Texas

Stephan Pyles of Dallas, founder of Routh Street Cafe, Baby Routh, Star Canyon
and AquaKnox restaurants, has been called not only the father of Texas cuisine,
but one of America's top chefs. From humanitarian to culinarian, this chef,
cookbook author and TV star has won nearly every award a chef could get.

Pyles chopped and cooked at many of the early fests as a member of the Gang of
Four -- Dean Fearing, of the Mansion on Turtle Creek in Dallas; Anne Lindsay
Greer, a Dallas cookbook author and restaurant consultant; chef Robert Del
Grande of Houston; and Pyles. The group returned annually as celebrity chefs for
the master dinners (they'll be back this week, though Greer is now Anne Lindsay
McCann).

Later, the festival committees brought in out-of-state chefs as cooking stars,
but not in the beginning. The Lone Star chefs showed off with such sophisticated
Southwestern dishes that the rest of the country suddenly realized there was
much more beyond barbecue, Tex-Mex and chicken fried steak in Texas.

Pyles, a fifth-generation Texan who grew up in his family's Big Spring truck
stop, wowed people with such dishes as his tamale tarts with roast garlic
custard, his lobster enchiladas and his blackeyed pea crab salad with
grapefruit.

For the past four years, he has been a chef without a restaurant, taking the
time off from the demands of a daily business to travel, do volunteer work and
restaurant consulting, and to reinvigorate. Now he is poised to open a
restaurant this fall in the arts district of downtown Dallas.

The restaurant, which will carry his name in some form, is still being shaped.
But he expects the menu to reflect the flavors of Spain, the Moors and the
Middle East. Maybe a little Asian, too, if it makes sense.

"In this day and age it is more acceptable to take on outside influences," he
says of the globalization of his menu beyond Lone Star and Southwestern borders.
Spending a lot of time in Spain the past five or six years, he's watched that
country's cuisine "become the most important cultural influence on cuisine
today." Already he has adapted some of these influences in two of the Dallas
metro restaurants in which he has consulted -- Dragonfly and Ama Lur.

Two decades ago when he was pioneering Southwestern and new Texas cuisine, the
better restaurants in Dallas were French and continental. He rebelled and raised
the Texas foodstuffs of his roots to new heights, developing suppliers along the
way to meet the quality of his expectations. The Southwestern-flavored cuisine
became a hit and made his name.

But Pyles, who will be participating in the festival this week, does not want to
rest on those laurels and flavors. Twenty years later, it is a different time in
history, he says, and he wants to bring more of the world of food to consumers
-- to continue incorporating the influences of other cultures, be they
Mediterranean or Moorish.

Granted, diners may fuss if he does not offer his trademark cowboy rib-eye.

"But I am not interested in staying in the past," he says. "I don't want to go
backwards."

He thinks Texas is ready for this next culinary adventure.

"Texas food is different today -- certainly light years better and healthier
than when I was growing up. But it is really amazing to see in the last 10 years
the caliber of restaurants that have opened throughout the state. There are
really good restaurants in all the major cities. I think Texas cuisine still
suffers in the mass public from the bad rap of one dimension -- barbecue and
Tex-Mex -- but there is greater awareness of exciting things happening."

Robert Del Grande helped cuisine

in Texas develop its own identity

As executive chef and partner of Cafe Annie in Houston, Robert Del Grande has
been messing with Texas food since the early '80s, when the Californian with the
doctorate in biochemistry got into the kitchen of his girlfriend's family
restaurant in the Bayou City. He had so much fun he never returned to
California. And he got the girl, as well as the job of executive chef.

He created black bean tostadas with crab meat and mussel soup with cilantro and
serrano chiles, both such huge hits they are still on the menu today.  By the
mid-'80s, as one of the state's celebrity chefs, Del Grande often came to the
Texas Hill Country Wine & Food Festival with his family to cook, laugh and play
in the Barbwires, an informal musical group of chefs. This weekend he will be
back participating on a panel on Texas food and playing with the Barbwires at an
event honoring the festival's founding chefs.

Recognized nationally, Del Grande has a long list of honors that include the
James Beard award and Food & Wine's Honor Roll of American Chefs. He has
expanded beyond Cafe Annie and is involved in Cafe Express, a chain of 19 Texas
eateries, and Taco Milagro in Houston.

Last week, between travels to Montreal and Mexico, Del Grande reflected on his
cooking style 20 years ago and today.

He is excited today about a red fish roasted in banana leaves and served with
pumpkin seed sauce. He likes his roasted pheasant with cinnamon, pecans and
chiles. All the foods are sort of extensions of what he has been doing, he says.

Through the years, he's cooked with ginger, kaffir lime leaves and lemongrass,
back before people knew which end of the lemongrass to use.

Now he is bringing Mediterranean influences into the kitchen -- seared rare tuna
with pureed fava beans and poblano chiles and preserved lemons. An appetizer --
rare tuna with roasted beets and black truffles -- has a French influence. But
not too much, he says.

"Sometimes when cuisines get higher up, they can look as if divorced from the
region," he says. And sometimes when chefs mix X,Y and Z together, the result
can seem more like a physics experiment than a stunning dinner dish, he adds.

Chefs look at every cuisine and other cultures and bring them back home to the
kitchen. "Some people go on vacation and come back and rewrite their menu. I
move more slowly. I'm probably more on the conservative side of an innovator."

"Today Texas food is the same and different," he sums up. Two decades ago he and
other leading chefs in the state put a spotlight on what they called Texas or
Southwestern cuisine. "We brought light and visibility to what was of great
value here. Now it has gone back into its natural state."

Few people are opening and dubbing restaurants Southwestern anymore. There does
not seem to be a second generation of chefs promoting that cuisine. But go into
many restaurants in the country today and you will see Southwestern elements --
salad dressings, appetizers, wraps, fajitas, tostadas, chiles -- everywhere.
"What was a novel specialty 20 years ago has become commonplace everywhere
today," he says.

kcrider@statesman.com, 445-3656, and drice@statesman.com, 445-3859

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stephan Pyles, Star Canyon founder
Susan Auler, Fall Creek Vineyards vintner
Robert Del Grande, Cafe Annie
Susan and Ed Auler of Fall Creek Vineyards needed the festival to help promote
the area as a place for winemaking.
Hill Country vineyards such as Fall Creek are now beyond Bordeaux and into
global variety.
Stephan Pyles pulls from many styles in dishes such as his Pineapple and Chile
Glazed Pork Tenderloin Tostada with sweet potatoes.
Pyles was an up-and-coming Dallas chef when the festival started in 1986.
Robert Del Grande goes beyond tostadas with yellowfin tuna, seared red chiles
and preserved lemons.
Robert Del Grande was one of the celebrity chefs at the first wine and food
festival.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               39 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 24, 2005 Sunday

OLD VS. MOD;
New digs on the block don't have to clash with Central Austin neighborhoods

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN ARCHITECTURE CRITIC

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 2037 words


When Vicki Faust and Kim Cavendish sent the designs for a sleek modern house to
their Travis Heights-area neighborhood association in the late 1990s, they
received a prompt reply.

Though Austin's neighborhood groups hold no jurisdiction over architectural
styles, they do express opinions. Faust and Cavendish discovered their new
neighbors near Academy Drive were very disappointed with the metal exterior
siding, glass-walled rooms, flat roofs and bold rectangular forms.

They offered a suggestion. "They told us that they hoped we would do extensive
landscaping," says Faust. "We were a little stunned that they wished we would
hide the house from view."

The couple built the strikingly angular house, which has since been embraced by
architecture fans and at least some neighbors.

A similar thing happened in the nearby Bouldin Creek area a few years later.
Tensions flared on the neighborhood association Internet newsgroup when some
neighbors objected to the ultra-modern house architect M.J. Neal built for his
family on West Live Oak Street. One neighbor posted a message likening the
two-story, flat-roofed red house to a Texaco station. Others celebrated its
difference as an important addition to an already architecturally eclectic
neighborhood.

Indeed, the debate over modern houses in older Central Austin neighborhoods
continues to percolate. And it's unlikely to go away. More and more,
nontraditional homes are cropping up in older districts, as the urge to live
urban fuels residential development.

But is aggressively modern architecture -- with its flat roofs, large expanses
of industrial material and glass or its non-traditional front facades -- that
much of a threat to more familiar Victorian confections, Craftsman-style
bungalows and cozy cottages that pepper Central Austin from 51st Street to
Oltorf Street, Pleasant Valley Road to Lake Austin Boulevard?

Not necessarily. The new can fit nicely with the old very well, say observers.

"Modern houses done well can be quite beautiful and good additions to
neighborhoods," says Kevin Keim, director of the Charles W. Moore Center for the
Study of Place, named for the architect who famously blended old and new
elements.

The Moore Center itself is a prime example of fitting in. After teaching at
architecture schools around the country, the noted theorist and designer settled
in Austin in the 1980s when he took a position at the University of Texas. He
and his professional partner at the time, Arthur Andersson (now a noted Austin
architect), took a modest Tarrytown bungalow and, with historically minded
post-modern flair, transformed it into a smart multi-structure complex that
includes a studio and smaller house, all clustered around a small pool.

The building sits subtly amongst the old-growth trees on its half-acre lot. Now
home to a nonprofit organization that advances interest in architecture and
design, the Moore Center is considered a structure of international significance
and is recognized by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

"Moore was at heart an architect who made very modern and daring buildings,"
Keim says. "But they were done from a grounding in a deep knowledge of historic
styles, scale and the landscape. Even so, his houses would never dominate sites,
but rather (defer to) others so that they, in essence, became good neighbors."

So what makes a new house a good neighbor, then? Whether modern or traditional
in style, a good addition is most importantly one that fits with the scale of
its surroundings.

Take, for example, two new houses recently built on West Mary Street. Designed
by the local architecture firm of KRDB, each is no more than 2,000 square feet.
Garages for both sit off an existing alley -- there's no driveway gobbling up
the front yard. Floor-to-ceiling windows connect the interior to the street
outside. While one takes advantage of its prominent corner site and rises two
stories, the other has a lower profile at just one story. Old-growth trees were
worked into new landscaping plans. And though their minimalist forms are simple
and bold, neither is too bulky.

Now compare the houses on West Mary to a trio of traditional, or retro, houses
under construction on West Johanna Street. With their pitched and gabled roofs,
projecting eaves, decorative brackets, double-hung windows, front porches and
clapboard siding, the houses have many of the stylistic requirements of a
traditional bungalow or farm house. But they fill their lots with their enormous
mass. Their towering three-story profiles hulk over the street and the
neighboring houses. In effect, they're bungalows on steroids -- "bungaloids,"
perhaps? -- pumped up, big-box houses that have been merely brushed with
historic stylings.

Same old story

How new is the style of the West Mary Street and Academy Drive houses?
Historically speaking, it's not that new at all. Indeed the new wave of Austin
architecture is a very conscious continuation of the century-old modernist
movement.

Beginning in the early part of the 20th-century, architects such Le Corbusier,
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Walter Gropius rejected historic precedent as a
source of direct influence. Instead they considered function as the driving
force behind architectural form. They used materials in a direct, not
decorative, manner and the technical or mechanical aspects of a building were
not hidden, but celebrated.

Over the years the principles of modernism trickled down to even the most
ordinary buildings. The 1960s ranch house, for example -- with its low
horizontal lines, simple forms and open interior spaces -- is a direct
descendant of modernism.

Though not many, Austin has its own modernist landmarks. Local architects Arthur
Fehr and Charles Granger designed the angular chapel at the Episcopal Seminary
of the Southwest. Chester Nagel (who studied with Gropius) gave Austin the
Barton Springs Bathhouse. And in the 1950s, builder A.D. Stenger dotted the
hills above Zilker Park with dozens of flat-roofed horizontal homes.

Rise of New Urbanism

More often than not, a house that offers a familiar first impression usually
gains approval, while a building that looks different from its surroundings
doesn't. Perhaps that's because traditional architecture style gets a huge vote
of confidence from the New Urbanist movement that cropped up in the early 1980s.

New Urbanism is perhaps the most important planning movement to come out of the
second half of the last century. In response to the suburban automobile-oriented
sprawl that after World War II began to disenfranchise cities and gobble up
rural sites across the country, urban planners and architects begin to consider
the benefits of traditional patterns of community-building. In essence, the
model New Urbanists espoused was based on the way in which traditional 19th and
early 20th century neighborhoods and towns were built.

Walkable communities centered on easily accessible retail and business areas,
connected with public transportation and laced with parks were the way our
cities should develop, the New Urbanists preached. And importantly, communities
should be made up of buildings that are compatibly scaled with one another. No
big-box houses towering over one-story cottages. No three-car garages gobbling
up front facades. Alleyways with rear parking would clear the streets of cars,
and front porches would promote neighborliness.

One of the first stabs at New Urbanism was Seaside, Fla. With its
picture-perfect matching houses that were so falsely idyllic, the town was used
for the utopian satire "The Truman Show." New Urbanist influences have
influenced Austin efforts, such as the Smart Growth initiative that urged
greater density in downtown Austin, and the master-planned redevelopment project
at the old Robert Mueller Municipal Airport.

But while the planning principles behind New Urbanism offer a sound solution for
dense eco-friendly, community-oriented living for modern cities, what got lost
in the translation from old to new is a flexible approach to the actual style of
architecture. Indeed, most New Urbanist projects employ neotraditional modes.

If some aspects of traditional neighborhoods are good, the reasoning goes, then
the more, the better.

Consider the plan for Austin's 700-acre Mueller Airport redevelopment. The
design guidelines for Mueller are very much a product of New Urbanism. Smartly,
there is much that outlines a consistent and humane scale to the estimated 2,800
new housing units -- a combination of single family homes and multi-unit
buildings -- that will be built in the first phase of development. No need to
fear that a hunkering three-story fake farmhouse will shadow one-story homes, as
has happened throughout so much of South Austin.

But don't hope for modern architecture at Mueller, either. The guidelines may
state that the architectural character should be "in the spirit of regional and
Central Texas architecture, in a traditional or contemporary idiom," but the
individual directives prescribe a very traditional approach. House roofs, for
example, should be gabled, hipped or pyramidal in shape. Windows should keep
with "traditional regional architecture" -- no large expanses of glass or
horizontal shapes. Front porches are practically mandated. Moldings and
decorative eaves should adorn exteriors to "provide interest." And if you want a
sliding glass door, the guidelines suggest that you can only have one on the
back of your house so your neighbors can't see it.

Indeed, if the design guidelines for the Mueller redevelopment were followed to
the letter, the landmark Moore Center, with its dramatic shed roof, large
windows and lack of a front porch, couldn't be built there. So Austin, which
prides itself as a forward-thinking progressive city -- home to the individually
minded creative class -- might end up with its first town-sized new urban
community that will have cookie cutter pseudo-retro architecture.

Symphony of styles

Perhaps then, as some observers point out, what people fundamentally react to
when new houses move next door is the threat of change itself.

"I think the root of much of the friction between residents in older
neighborhoods and their new neighbors is the not unfounded fear that change can
lead to the erasure of the old," says Michael Guarino, design director at
TeamHaas Architects. "Therefore anything new is viewed as a potential threat or
a critique on what's perceived as an established way of life."

But just what is the established status quo for many Central Austin
neighborhoods? Stylistically, it's not always a clear-cut case.

Many older areas grew dense gradually over time, as two- or three-lot homesteads
were subdivided into quarter-acre or smaller urban lots. In Clarksville, sleek
Art Deco two-story duplexes share the block with 1940s brick cottages or
fourplex rentals built in the 1970s. In the East Austin Cherrywood neighborhood,
there are 1940s stucco ranch houses, flat-roofed modernist stone homes from the
1960s and yes, familiar-looking bungalows. Such a symphony of styles is probably
nowhere more evident than in Bouldin Creek, where 1880s stone farmhouses sit
next to 1950s ranch houses and even the occasional A-frame.

Is there any reason, then, why a rightly scaled stylishly modern home with
sensitive landscaping -- a structure in tune with its surroundings -- couldn't
join such an eclectic orchestra?

jvanryzin@statesman.com; 445-3699

(from box)

PRINCIPLES OF NEW URBANISM

Neighborhoods should be diverse in use and population.

Communities should be designed for the pedestrian and public transit as well as
the car.

Cities and towns should be shaped by physically defined and universally
accessible public spaces and community institutions.

Urban places should be framed by architecture and landscape design that
celebrate local history, climate, ecology and building practice.

Source: Congress for the New Urbanism, www.cnu.org

LEARNING MORE

Charles W. Moore Center

for the Study of Place

Where: 2101 Quarry Road

Information: www.charlesmoore.org, 692-6862

Tours: By appointment only.

Tickets: $10 ($4 students)

'Chuckwagon'

Moore Center annual fund-raiser barbecue, 6:30 p.m. May 12, $50

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Seen from the side, this West Mary Street house doesn't overpower
despite its two stories. A loggia and porch connect it to the outdoors.
Charles Moore and Arthur Andersson took a modest Tarrytown bungalow and deftly
transformed it into a multistructure compound.
Because of careful attention to scale, a modern home designed by the Austin
architecture firm KRDB fits in well with neighboring older homes on West Mary
Street in South Austin. Large windows create a friendly connection with the
street and preserve a view of an established tree.
While traditional in terms of architectural style, a trio of new homes on West
Johanna Street overpowers the older neighborhood with their enormous scale.
In the 1950s, A.D. Stenger designed and built dozens of modernist homes in
Austin. They are characterized by simple forms and low horizontal lines.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               40 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 22, 2005 Sunday

When policy defines identity;
State's stand on issues like stem cells affects who opts to live here

BYLINE: Bill Bishop, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2389 words


Several scientists are "waiting to see what happens" with proposed legislation
banning embryonic stem cell research before deciding whether to accept jobs in
Texas, a University of Texas official told a state Senate committee this week.

Dr. Kenneth I. Shine, executive vice chancellor for health affairs for the
University of Texas System, said he is recruiting several researchers who "don't
want to be in positions where they can't pursue this line of research."

And if the Legislature does ban stem cell research, there will be a "giant
sucking sound" as researchers already here flee the state to more hospitable
political atmospheres in California or New Jersey, said Dr. William Brinkley,
dean of Baylor's graduate school of biomedical sciences.

It's unlikely the stem cell research ban will pass in the legislative session's
final week. But its mere consideration by state lawmakers is one piece in a
larger mosaic, as the political fractures evident in the two most recent
presidential elections begin reaching into statehouses and city halls.

As many states tip strongly toward either Republicans or Democrats, they are
increasingly considering, and sometimes enacting, policies that reflect the
extremes of the country's politics.

These decisions are affecting where people choose to live and work.

Los Angeles removes the cross from its county seal. Texas asks the U.S. Supreme
Court to let a granite tablet of the Ten Commandments remain on the state
Capitol grounds.

Kansas places a ban on same-sex marriages in its state constitution, and the
Connecticut Legislature votes to allow gay unions.

The Democratic Maryland Legislature requires Wal-Mart to provide health
insurance, only to have the plan vetoed by Republican Gov.  Robert L. Ehrlich
Jr. The Florida Legislature passes its "Stand Your Ground" legislation allowing
pistol-packing citizens to use deadly force in a public place if threatened, and
the National Rifle Association vows to export the legislation to other states.

California (especially Los Angeles), Connecticut and Maryland all voted for the
Democratic presidential candidate in 2000 and 2004. Texas, Kansas and Florida
voted for George W. Bush.

"You can't wait for Congress; you fight it out where you've got the votes," said
Alan Rosenthal, a Rutgers University political scientist. "You have the blue
states and the red states. You might say we've got two political cultures, or
the development of two political cultures."

In the past 30 years, most U.S. communities have become increasingly Democratic
or Republican, as people cluster in communities of like-mindedness.

Greater polarization leads to "greater efforts at the state level to enact
policies that reflect the views of the public in that state," said Emory
University political scientist Alan Abramowitz. So states pick sides. They
bypass Congress and the president and choose futures that often fall far to one
side of the national political divisions.

Twelve states and two cities in early April asked a federal appeals court to
make the federal Environmental Protection Agency regulate greenhouse gases.

All but one of the states voted Democratic in both of the past two presidential
elections, and the 12th -- New Mexico -- tipped Republican only in 2004. The two
cities, Washington and Baltimore, were among the nation's most Democratic metro
areas in 2004.

There is an explicit attempt to move national policy locally.

"What we did in Connecticut in passing civil union legislation was not only to
confer full legal equality under law to same-sex couples but to send a powerful
message to the rest of the country," said Connecticut state Sen. Andrew
McDonald, sponsor of the state's new gay union law.

"Everybody understood that this was not just a Connecticut issue, that this was
going to serve as a platform for many other discussions and debates around the
country," McDonald said.

States are "sending signals," said Abramowitz, telling the world about the kinds
of places they intend to be. And these signals in turn "might influence
decisions about where people choose to live."

It's one of the vagaries of science that a jellyfish that produces green
fluorescent protein could help stem cell research advance in Houston.

Michael Mancini holds up a panel of six photographs of a cell, all different
colors.

"It's my tribute to Andy Warhol," Mancini says of the cells colored with the
neon intensity of the artist's homage to Marilyn Monroe. Using the jellyfish
protein, Mancini plans to begin a study of stem cells.

These days stem cell researchers keep one eye trained on government. In 2001,
Bush announced a policy limiting embryonic stem cell research, which
anti-abortion groups strongly oppose.

Suddenly, stem cells became one of those issues that defines a community's
politics.

California voted last year to spend $3 billion on stem cell research. Meanwhile,
in Republican Texas, Gov. Rick Perry told an anti-abortion rally early this year
that embryonic stem cell research "requires the destruction of human life. . . .
As long as I am the governor of this great state, I will oppose any taxpayer
dollars being used and spent on research that ends a human life."

Legislation pending in the Texas House would ban research using embryonic stem
cells. Missouri, another red state, has also considered restrictions. Meanwhile
Democratic-leaning states -- Wisconsin, New Jersey, Massachusetts -- have all
encouraged stem-cell initiatives.

The politics of stem cells is influencing where people live. Researchers flood
California with resumes. At the Texas Capitol, legislators are warned that if
they pass a stem cell proposal, scientists will leave the state.

Scientists such as Mancini. Thanks to incredible technology and shining
jellyfish protein, he can now watch live cells change one at a time. He'd like
to extend his research at the place he describes as "the center of the
biological universe."

Mancini grew up near Eminem's Eight Mile Road outside Detroit.

He dropped out of school, started a family, opened a landscape company, went
back to school and found his way to the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston,
one of 65,000 people -- all seemingly garbed in green scrubs, white lab coats,
jeans and running shoes -- who work at the Texas Medical Center. The labs are
filled with researchers of almost every race and nationality. Mancini is
collaborating with Austin Cooney, a 44-year-old from Ireland. Cooney works with
Thomas Zwaka from Germany.

The world inside the medical research center is racially diverse, collaborative,
secular. "But it's not the world out there," Cooney says, waving vaguely in the
direction of Austin and the rest of Texas.

Those two worlds are colliding. "This is why there's going to be an exodus,"
says Mancini. "If your state is going to make it miserable for you not just in
the absence of support but in the presence of political disdain, people are
going to leave."

Cooney says people may leave Texas. So does Ferid Murad, a Nobel Prize-winning
biologist and medical doctor at the Texas Medical Center.

"A few senior scientists are beginning to look elsewhere to continue their stem
cell research since the climate is not favorable in Texas," Murad wrote in an
e-mail. "I believe the stem cell research climate in Texas will tend to
influence the decisions of younger people and trainees as they begin to seek
their first positions in universities or industry. States such as California
will certainly have a significant recruiting advantage."

Not everyone will leave, of course. Mancini is settled into Houston, and his
photography work can go on without using embryonic stem cells.

But as states and cities increasingly differentiate themselves by passing laws,
scrutinizing school textbooks for their treatment of issues such as evolution or
sex education, and raising issues in legislatures, they send signals people hear
clearly.

"How did stem cells become such an important referendum on what's valuable?"
asked University of Pennsylvania historian Susan Lindee. "It's not like stem
cell research does nothing, but it hasn't exactly had dramatic practical
consequences. But it has this high profile. It's a referendum on identity -- who
you are and what you stand for."

Those values aren't cast in iron. They shift with national politics. It was the
political left that voted for stem cell research in California, but in 1977, the
first community to place limits on genetic research was Cambridge, Mass. One of
the bluest towns in the bluest state nearly outlawed genetic research in its
jurisdiction 30 years ago.

"Originally, you evaluated recombinant DNA technology the same way you would
evaluate a new kind of pesticide or a large dam," said Marcy Darnovsky,
associate executive director of the Center for Genetics and Society in San
Francisco. But since the religious right came out against embryonic stem cell
research, it created "this reflexive response to that religious point of view.
What's happened is fascinating."

Cooney asks for the specific number of legislation in the Texas House that would
bar stem cell research. "This directly affects me," he says as he turns to his
computer and Googles the Texas Legislature.

Brinkley testified against a proposal in the Texas Legislature that he said
would "make it a felony to do those experiments and even for patients to use the
therapy." The legislation that would ban stem cell research has stalled, but
with Perry's staunch opposition to this work, the proposals, and more
importantly the depth of political support behind them, have researchers here
worried.

Polls and election results indicate that the debate over this research has as
much to do with partisan politics as science. Staunchly Democratic California
voted for the stem cell initiative last year more as a referendum on the
president than on the worth of the scientific research, Darnovsky believes.

"The initiative was triggered by the Bush administration's restrictions on stem
cell research, certainly," she said. "Democrats, liberals, progressives,
leftists saw that vote as a way to poke a stick in the eye of the Bush
administration."

Moveon.org championed the California stem cell initiative as part of its effort
to defeat President Bush, Darnovsky said. Pro-abortion-rights groups lined up in
favor of the research proposal in an election that mirrored the fractured
politics of the nation. For the anti-Bush vote in California, "it was, 'If
they're agin it, we're for it,' " Darnovsky said.

In early August of last year a statewide poll found California voters split on
the stem cell initiative. But voters supporting John Kerry backed the initiative
2-to-1. Bush voters opposed stem cells by the same margin.

What's happened is that the fights over culture and morality that split the
nation in the past several presidential elections have become routine parts of
state and local politics.

Twenty years ago, said Rosenthal, "legislatures could pretty well keep the most
contentious issues off the agenda because they were no-win issues. Everyone
would have been bloodied."

Legislatures once could control these issues, keep them bottled up in committees
and off the front pages.

"Now they can't," Rosenthal said. "These issues come up. One side wants 'em. The
other wants to kill 'em. And they can't push them aside. So they do battle, and
the majority side wins."

In Congress, Democrats have grown more liberal over the past two decades.
Republicans have grown more conservative. Congressional districts have grown
more partisan. Only a handful of congressional districts have a competitive mix
of Republicans and Democrats, reports Vanderbilt University political scientist
Bruce Oppenheimer.

"And it's even more severe at the state level. State legislative districts are
even more lopsided," Oppenheimer said.

There may be less formal participation in politics these days, Rosenthal said.
People vote less often. But there are more people interested in particular
issues, and their interest is intense.

"Thirty or 40 years ago, more people voted, but they didn't really do anything
or care or give money," Rosenthal said. "Now, fewer people vote, but I imagine
35 or 40 percent of the population gets engaged on one issue or another. There's
passion out there."

Legislators now represent districts that are less moderate. Interest groups are
stronger, and legislators are more dependent on these groups to win primaries.
"And that leads to polarized institutions," Oppenheimer said.

Kansas held hearings this spring on replacing or removing the teaching of
evolution from the state's classroom.

University of Kansas paleontologist Leonard Krishtalka told the Washington Post
that the argument could deter faculty members and students from coming to
Kansas.

"There is a great deal of hesitancy," Krishtalka said to the newspaper. "They
don't see this as a nurturing academic environment for themselves or their
kids."

John Higley, chairman of the government department at the University of Texas,
said the conservative policies of state government can deter some potential
faculty members from moving to Austin, particularly those from the Northeast.

"Texas can be one of the variables that goes against us," Higley said.

Although several measures were filed this session addressing various aspects of
stem cell research, the one considered by the Senate Health and Human Services
Committee last week, Senate Bill 943, was not voted out, and there's little time
for it to pass. But scientists are as much concerned with the social atmosphere
in which they live and work as the legal strictures that define their work.

Testifying Thursday, former Austin Mayor Kirk Watson told the Senate the
potential of a ban on stem cell research made Texas appear "backward" and would
deter researchers in other disciplines from coming to the state. Indeed, a
recent survey of scientists found that researchers felt more constrained by
local morality than local laws.

"Our results suggest that informal limitations (on scientists) are more
prevalent and pervasive than formal constraints," the authors of the study,
"Forbidden Knowledge," wrote this year in Science Magazine.

"There's a ripple effect," Mancini said. "If science is seen as evil, with
monsters, it means we'll have to go elsewhere."

bbishop@statesman.com; 445-3634

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               41 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 13, 2005 Monday

Changing of the guard;
Texas command put in new hands

BYLINE: Sarah Coppola, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 499 words


In a quiet field, groups of Texas National Guard members stood at attention
against a bright blue sky and a smattering of vibrantly colored flags.

Suddenly, four fighter jets swooped and roared overhead, marking the moment of
one revered leader replacing another.

The Guard said goodbye to its top commander, the adjutant general, Lt. Gen.
Wayne Marty, in a change-of-command ceremony Sunday at Camp Mabry. A crowd of
Guard members and their families welcomed a new adjutant, Maj. Gen. Charles
Rodriguez, who was sworn in by Gov. Rick Perry.

"General Marty, it is with absolute certainty that I say our fighting force is
stronger and freedom is flourishing at home and abroad because of your service,"
Perry said.

The adjutant is responsible for leading the more than 21,000 members of the
Texas Military Forces, which include the Texas Army National Guard and Texas
State Guard. Marty has held the job since 2002 and is retiring after 40 years in
the military, including service in Vietnam. Rodriguez, deputy director of the
Center for Public Health Preparedness at the University of Texas in San Antonio,
will be the first Hispanic to serve in the top post.

On Sunday, the crowd prayed that Rodriguez summon the wisdom of Solomon and the
courage of David in his new job. Then Marty did his final inspection of his
forces, riding tall in the back of a military vehicle and surveying the men and
women lined up before him.

He received a military flag for the last time and, in a ceremonial passing of
the colors, was supposed to hand it to Perry. But Marty clung to it for a
moment, as though reluctant to give up his job, drawing laughs from the crowd.

"It has been privilege to serve with the men and women of the Texas military and
their families. Today I want to say thank you," Marty said.

Spc. Patrice Jones usually plays oboe in the band that welcomed Rodriguez, but
on Sunday she watched from the sidelines with her new baby daughter, Ellary. "
Change of command has been around since the beginning of history. It's about
symbolism and tradition," she said. "It's important for the troops to experience
that."

The ceremony, which dates back to the days of the Continental Army, represents
gratitude to a departing leader and faith in a new one, Command Sgt. Maj. Clyde
Worrell said.

"He's a people person and a visionary," Worrell said of Marty. "He looked to the
future and also took care of his soldiers."

Attendee Gail Whittemore-Smith worked with Marty as the director of Texas
STARBASE, a Houston program that helps at-risk kids improve in math and science.
She said she will miss Marty but is excited about Rodriguez' leadership. "He's a
dynamic, extremely intelligent and competent man who cares deeply about people,"
she said.

Rodriguez told the crowd he will demand integrity but will work to sustain an
affirming climate in which his men and women look forward to coming to work each
day.

"You can expect my best efforts on your behalf," he said.

scoppola@statesman.com; 912-2939

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A crowd turns out Sunday at Camp Mabry to watch Gov. Rick Perry,
center, swear in a new adjutant general, Maj. Gen. Charles Rodriguez, right.
They also said goodbye to the previous adjutant, Lt. Gen. Wayne Marty, left.
Departing Lt. Gen. Wayne Marty leaves the field after completing his last
inspection Sunday and saying thank you to the assembled troops.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               44 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 7, 2005 Wednesday

In Mexico, satire is must-see TV;
Series that parodies president draws viewers, political ads

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, MEXICO CITY BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 817 words


MEXICO CITY -- Every Monday evening, millions of Mexicans sit down to guffaw at
something new to television here: a half-hour comedy show that figuratively
eviscerates their president, the first lady and their nation's top politicians.

"El Privilegio de Mandar" -- "The Privilege of Power" -- is so popular that some
ambitious politicians, figuring some exposure is better than none, are
contacting the show's producers begging to be spoofed.

Those powerful enough to already rate mockery are clamoring for meetings with
the actors who play them, hoping that they can discreetly influence scripts that
satirize them as power-hungry, materialistic or just plain dim.

"This is an unprecedented time for television in Mexico, a time when democracy
has opened up much more," said "Privilege" producer Reynaldo Lopez in an
interview at Mexico's Televisa network.

"We just had a call from a politician who asked to come talk to us. We told him
no, which is our policy," Lopez said with a chuckle.

The show's five writers refuse to meet with politicians. But they tell the
actors to feel free to accept invitations from politicians and just explain to
them that they don't write the scripts.

Lopez estimates that as many as 20 million Mexicans sometimes tune in to
"Privilege," a huge number given that Mexico's population is a little over 100
million. Since the program debuted this year, independent ratings rank it far
and away the top show in Monday's 10 p.m. prime time slot.

The show's success is attributed to Mexico's more open political climate. Five
years ago, the country voted out the one-party regime of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which had ruled for 71 years.

Under the PRI, TV censorship was common and news programs always favored the PRI
during elections.

In the late 1990s, Mexico's Azteca network began airing a short segment
featuring puppets acting out scripts that lampooned politicians.

But "Privilege" breaks new ground, with actors doing skits that rival some of
the most scalding portrayals of President Bush on "Saturday Night Live."

President Vicente Fox's character is often portrayed as unsophisticated or
clueless about Mexico's problems.

The actress who plays Fox's wife, Marta, depicts her as calculating and
relentlessly materialistic, a play on reports of the expensive designer dresses
she relishes.

Aspiring political candidates eyeing Mexico's July 2006 presidential election
are adding their own surreal touch to the show. Fox cannot run again, as Mexican
law limits presidents to one six-year term.

Because they want to reach a huge audience, those who would be president are
buying advertising time during "Privilege" to air serious campaign commercials.

It is possible to watch an actor portraying a politician as a buffoon during a
sketch --and then suddenly see the real politician somberly imploring Mexicans
to vote for him in a commercial.

Ad time during the show is expensive by Mexico standards, an average of $35,000
for 20 seconds, according to Mexican TV critic Florence Toussaint, who writes
for Proceso magazine.

Lopez and his writers say they are careful to spoof all political parties and
favor no one.

"There seems to be equal time to satirize all, and that's what makes the show
popular," Toussaint observed. "If that should change, it might lose its
audience."

Alfonso Villalpando, the actor who portrays Fox, said he undergoes a two-hour
makeup transformation, including latex mask, to play the tall, deep-voiced
president.

When Villalpando accompanied another actor to a meeting with a cabinet secretary
in April, he told the secretary he would like to meet Fox.

About a week later, Villalpando was invited to have coffee with Fox. The two
talked alone for 40 minutes about democracy, freedom of speech and how the
president was no longer untouchable in Mexico, Villalpando said.

"He told me he sees the show every Monday night," Villalpando said. "He did say
he doesn't like the depiction of Marta in the show, but he never said to change
it."

Two weeks after meeting the president, Villalpando was invited to provide
entertainment at a university class reunion with Fox and his old classmates, one
of whom is a Televisa manager. The actor went in full makeup as Fox and read a
satirical speech the show's writers had prepared for him.

Lopez wonders if Televisa will continue airing the show through the July 2006
election.

He and the writers hope so, intending to continue their policy of lampooning all
parties and candidates equally.

After the campaign officially begins, Mexico's political parties will all have
millions of dollars in public financing at their disposal to spend on TV
commercials and other forms of campaigning.

Still, "there could be pressure to end the program before the July election,"
Lopez said. "It's going to be a big test for Televisa and the commitment to
freedom of expression."

sferriss@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alfonso Villalpando plays a buffoonish president and Raquel Pankowsky
plays his materialistic wife in 'The Privilege of Power.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               46 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday

A war of words over going to war;
Administration tinkers with truth in countering critics of conflict in Iraq

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1074 words


WASHINGTON -- In a Veterans Day speech, President Bush accused Democrats of
"rewriting the past" and "playing politics" with the war in Iraq. Vice President
Dick Cheney turned up the rhetoric last week when he called the assertion that
the administration misled the country into war "one of the most dishonest and
reprehensible charges ever aired in this city."

Bush and Cheney's remarks were part of an escalating administration campaign to
challenge critics of the war, accusing them of twisting the historical record
about how and why the war was launched. It is a campaign that presidential
counselor Dan Bartlett said will continue.

"There's a bright line there that the Democrats have crossed," Bartlett said.
"They have no facts on their side."

The administration's overarching premise is beyond dispute: Administration
officials, Democratic and Republican members of Congress, and leaders of foreign
governments believed intelligence assessments that Iraq had at least some
weapons of mass destruction. That intelligence turned out to be wrong.

Yet in accusing Iraq war critics of rewriting history, Bush, Cheney and other
administration and Republican leaders are tinkering with the factual record
themselves.

The same intelligence?

In his Veterans Day speech and again on Thursday in Pusan, South Korea, Bush
repeated his long-standing claim that members of Congress "looked at the same
intelligence I did" when they voted in October 2002 to authorize the use of
force against Iraq.

This isn't true.

Members of Congress were able to see only the intelligence reports cleared by
the White House. They didn't see the main document concerning Iraq and WMD --
the October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate -- until three days before their
vote authorizing war. The White House ordered the estimate compiled only after
lawmakers demanded it.

Lawmakers did not have access to the daily intelligence briefings Bush received
from the CIA, nor did they have access to the confidential assessments from
National Security Council principals such as Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld,
who oversaw the Pentagon's vast intelligence gathering and analytical resources,
or former Secretary of State Colin Powell, who oversaw intelligence gathered by
the U.S. diplomatic corps through its embassies overseas.

A series of secret assessments discounted the administration's assertion that
Saddam Hussein could give banned weapons to al Qaeda, a threat the White House
emphasized in making its case for war. A recently declassified Defense
Intelligence Agency report from February 2002, for example, said that an al
Qaeda detainee was probably lying when he claimed that Iraq had been teaching
members of the terrorist network to use chemical and biological weapons. Yet
eight months after the report was published, Bush told the nation that "we've
learned that Iraq has trained al Qaeda members in bomb-making and poisons and
gases."

Administration officials have also said that the Clinton administration and
Congress perceived Saddam as a threat based on some of the same intelligence
used by the Bush administration, and passed the Iraq Liberation Act of 1998 as a
result. The act stated U.S. support for regime change in Iraq and provided up to
$97 million in overt military and humanitarian aid to opposition groups in Iraq,
but it did not authorize the use of U.S. force against Iraq.

Voted for war?

Bush said that many of those now criticizing his decision to invade Iraq had
"voted to support removing Saddam Hussein from power."

In October 2002 -- five months before Bush launched the war -- both houses of
Congress approved a resolution authorizing the use of military force against
Iraq. The votes were 77-23 in the Senate and 296-133 in the House.

The resolution gave Bush the power to "defend the national security of the
United States against the continuing threat posed by Iraq" and to "enforce all
relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq." It did not
specifically address removing Saddam, and it required Bush to exhaust all
diplomatic options before going to war.

Bush has said he did exhaust all diplomatic options. Many of his critics say --
and it was a point of debate at the time -- that he did not.

Political pressure?

Bush said that war "critics are fully aware that a bipartisan Senate
investigation found no evidence of political pressure to change the intelligence
community's judgments related to Iraq's weapons programs."

After conducting a limited investigation, the Senate Intelligence Committee in
2004 concluded that "most of the major key judgments" the administration made
about Iraq's alleged WMD were "either overstated, or were not supported by, the
underlying intelligence reporting."

The committee did not look at how the White House characterized the intelligence
it had when selling its plan for war, however. That's supposed to be the topic
of a second phase of study.

The committee's findings also were hardly bipartisan. Democrats said in
additional comments to the panel's report that U.S. intelligence agencies
produced analyses and the key prewar assessment of Iraq's illicit weapons in "a
highly pressurized climate."

A commission that Bush appointed, chaired by Judge Laurence Silberman and former
Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va., found no evidence of "politicization" of the
intelligence community's assessments about Iraq. But like the Senate report, the
commission's report did not look at whether administration officials exaggerated
the Iraqi threat.

In a July 2003 report, a CIA panel found that agency analysts were subjected to
"steady and heavy" requests from administration officials for evidence of links
between Iraq and al Qaeda, which created "significant pressure . . . to find
evidence that supported a connection."

The world agreed?

Bush said his critics "also know that intelligence agencies from around the
world agreed with our assessment of Saddam Hussein."

It is true that many other nations, particularly in Europe, believed that Iraq
possessed some chemical and biological capabilities -- not necessarily weapons.
Only British Prime Minister Tony Blair agreed with Bush that Iraq posed an
immediate threat grave enough to warrant military attack. France, Russia,
Germany and many other countries urged Bush to give U.N. weapons inspections
more time to learn the truth about the Iraqi threat.

Washington Bureau reporter Bob Deans contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Bush has repeatedly asserted that members of Congress 'looked
at the same intelligence I did' when they voted in October 2002 to authorize the
use of force against Iraq. In fact, Congress only had access to intelligence
reports cleared by the White House.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               47 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

East Austin changes raise old questions that need new answers

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 773 words


Back in the early 1960s, the area just east of Interstate 35 and just north of
Town Lake was a poor person's version of the modern urbanist's ideal. It was a
five-minute Popsicle neighborhood (where that Popsicle was a five-minute walk
away) -- a densely populated neighborhood where retail and residential
co-existed. It had, as it still does, a beautiful backdrop. Then, as now, the
lake and the trees cloaked the neighborhood with an air of calm and natural
beauty.

Then, as now, people would sit outside and visit, enjoying the evening breezes
and taking advantage of an agreeable climate. Problems? Of course. The
co-existence of residential and commercial uses was sometimes peaceful and
sometimes forced. Neighbors might have accepted a mom-and-pop store, but the
Holly Power Plant was another story altogether, one that is still unfolding.

From the mid-1970s on, a series of self-described progressive City Councils
pondered, studied, discussed, reviewed, consulted and analyzed the fate of East
Austin. A lot of talk that netted very little action.

Even as the boom sparked intense debate over land use west of the interstate,
not much changed east. East First Street became Cesar Chavez, but it still
looked pretty much like it did in 1964. Part of that was the ongoing
disagreement between competing political factions and neighborhood groups over
what should happen, but market demand for change just wasn't there.

The mom-and-pop stores, meanwhile, fell to changing times and changing economics
that forced many of them to shut the doors.

What a difference a decade and a downtown housing boom make.

Even before Austin went downtown condo crazy, inexpensive East Austin real
estate made it an attractive prospect to both business and residential buyers.
Pretty soon, the trickle looked like a flood and questions that inevitably wash
in behind transition arose: How do we accommodate the newcomers but maintain
some of the old neighborhood character?

It is not an original question. And there is an answer, albeit one that will
take vision, patience and determination by both the neighborhoods and the city's
easily distracted political leadership.

The problem is fairly basic: As a neighborhood redevelops, property values tend
to rise along with the demand for lots. That puts pressure on business owners
and residents who were there first. Inevitably, the new residents and the old
residents clash.

We're experiencing all of that as East Austin from Cesar Chavez up through
Martin Luther King Boulevard finally sees some of the Austin boom coming its
way.

Byron Marshall, head of the Austin Revitalization Authority, said his
organization -- one that builds retail and residential space -- is learning
through trial and error to accommodate the best of the old while making room for
the new.

"You want upward mobility, you want businesses to profit and you want (longtime
residents) to stay as long as they want," Marshall said.

One answer for older residents is tax shelters and abatements that would help
them stay. That, augmented by existing rehabilitation programs and aggressive
moves to ensure that new housing is economically accessible to a range of
incomes, should keep displacement of residents to a minimum.

At present, there are at least 12 redevelopment programs on the books for East
Austin, and all of them touch on those basic concepts. The City Council is again
studying tax abatements and utility breaks that would minimize wholesale
upheaval of neighborhoods undergoing transition.

How much gets done between now and the spring City Council elections is a matter
of conjecture.

At least two council members, Danny Thomas and Raul Alvarez, are leaving their
posts. Council Member Brewster McCracken, the third member up next year, is
expected to run again. Thomas intends to run for mayor, and Alvarez is leaving
municipal politics.

The potential is there for a four-seat turnover on the City Council, although
that scenario is highly unlikely. The practical effect of the looming races is
that the focus time is relatively limited. Talking tax breaks and redevelopment
incentives isn't particularly sexy and can be risky for candidates.

But economic incentives, whether to establish or upgrade sewer, water and
electric service, are going to have to get serious attention. Unlike the past 40
years, East Austin is quickly redeveloping.

And unlike times past, City Council members, and those who aspire to be council
members, can't just give lip service or promise studies.

Candidates should start preparing some serious answers about how much they are
willing to pay for that five-minute Popsicle.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               49 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 12, 2005 Sunday

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. H2

LENGTH: 1146 words


JUNE 8 EDITORIAL, 'AN AMERICAN GULAG? NOT QUITE'

The point of saying 'gulag'

The editorial misses the point. First, in using the term "gulag," Amnesty
International was not referring merely to the detention camp at Guantanamo Bay,
but to the entire worldwide network of detention camps run by the United States.
This includes prisons in Iraq, such as Abu Ghraib, detention facilities in
Afghanistan and CIA-run camps in various undisclosed locations where "ghost
detainees" are denied access even to the Red Cross.

Although the numbers might not be comparable to the Soviet gulag, the very
existence of this archipelago of detention camps, and the fact that the
detainees in all cases are held completely outside the rule of law, are
certainly reminiscent.

Second, the important issue is not one organization's choice of metaphor, but
the reports of abuse and torture that continue to emerge from these camps, and
what is to be done about it.

BRIAN EVANS

Amnesty International

Austin chapter

bcevans@mail.utexas.edu

Austin

Well, it's not a labor camp

Technically, the American-Statesman's editorial, conservative think-tank pundits
and conservative talking heads on Fox News are correct. Guantanamo Bay is not a
gulag in that it is not a forced labor camp. But look at what the term "gulag"
refers to. It is not simply a labor camp, but rather a series of camps set up by
the Soviets to keep people locked up and away from public scrutiny. And if the
prisoners had any trial at all, it was merely for show. Now look at what we
Americans are doing. We have an extensive prison system to house suspected
terrorists all over the world.

We have several in Afghanistan, including the notorious Bagram prison. We have
many in Iraq, including Abu Ghraib. And we have Guantanamo Bay. We are also
holding prisoners through third-party countries such as Pakistan, Syria, Egypt
and Saudi Arabia.

The Soviets had decades to develop its gulag.  How long will we allow our
government to propagate this system in our name?

LEA STEPHANIS

Buda

Judicial review is missing

Your editorial missed the point of Amnesty International's comparison of
Guantanamo Bay prison to a gulag. It is not the volume of prisoners that is
being compared.  It wouldn't matter whether it were one prisoner and not just
750 or millions. It isn't really the treatment, either.  It is the fact that
those prisoners have no access to judicial review, no contact with the outside
world and the fact that they are to be imprisoned indefinitely that draws the
gulag comparison. Prisoners in gulags and Guantanamo are not given a chance to
defend themselves or gain their freedom. That is a just comparison. Even your
editorial said as much.

FARLEY ONG

San Antonio

Not quite the Soviets

Not quite a gulag? I guess we should all take great pride in the fact that we
are not as bad as the Soviet Union was during its heyday. The fact that we are
having this conversation at all should be a red flag to all of us.

I am glad that Amnesty International chose this word. It takes great courage to
dare to impugn the human rights record of the great America. Truth be told, it
is not Amnesty's reputation that is in tatters, but America's. Take a 12-hour
flight and ask around.

FRANK McCARTHY

fmccarthy@austin.rr.com

Austin

Democrats look lost

Well, I guess the Democrat Party doesn't want Hispanic votes anymore. It seems
that Democratic Chairman Howard Dean thinks that the 40 percent of Hispanics who
voted for President Bush are members of a "white Christian party." That's what
he called the GOP in a recent interview. He also apparently hates that same 40
percent of Hispanic Bush voters, because he also recently said he "hates
Republicans and everything they stand for." Gosh, and they wonder why they keep
losing elections.

CARL SWANSON

carlswanson@sbcglobal.net

Austin

Why Earth is warming

Your editorial about the science of global warming is wrong. They don't know
what they are talking about. Didn't the Earth have an ice age at one time in its
history? If so, hasn't there always been global warming? We have a sun that
warms the Earth all the time. We have a center of the Earth that is molten rock.

So why wouldn't the Earth be warming? It has nothing to do with greenhouse
gases. The atmospheric carbon dioxide levels have increased very little in the
past 50 years. It is still less than 300 parts per million.

JOHN BRYANT

jbryant92@satx.rr.com

New Braunfels

Sad end to dog's life

Re: June 8 article, "Neighbors' dispute boiled over into dog's shooting death,
police say":

The cruelty to animals issue brought against Philip Spies is most definitely
warranted, yet another fine should be brought against Cody's owners for
tethering him to a pole in their yard. How can they consider their dog a
surrogate child when they tie him up? You either train your dog to live
comfortably in your house or you don't have one. If digging is an issue, the dog
is trying to tell you he's bored or has a reason for trying to get on the other
side. There are ways to keep dogs from digging, but tying them up is not one of
them.  Shame on both parties. May Cody rest in peace -- away from all of them.

JUDY WILLIAMS

Austin

Is there a correlation?

Hmmm, let's see . . . on the front page of the June 7 paper, there's a story
about how the United States might come in first in the mental illness
sweepstakes. On the editorial page, there's a piece on how the 40-hour work week
is only a cherished memory in our country (Editorial, "You're probably too busy
to read this").

The editorial talked about "National Leave the Office Early Day." I've never
heard of it, and I'm a government worker.  Does anyone else see a correlation
between the article and the editorial? Or were you too busy to notice?

CINDY HALE

Austin

Get tougher on sex crimes

We are seeing more and more horrible stories of children who have become victims
of sexual predators. Also, we're seeing more stories about women who are stalked
and raped and, in too many cases, killed. These crimes are not just a few. They
are committed by the thousands each year. Why aren't the criminals in prison for
life even for the first offense? Are there still air heads out there who believe
that sexual predators can be cured or that their behavior can be controlled?

A person who commits an aggravated assault on a child should receive the death
penalty. If that seems too harsh, at least make sure they are behind bars for
the rest of their  lives.

ED HUCKMAN

Bastrop

GM's disturbing moves

I find it extremely disturbing that the same week I began to see General Motors
advertisements offering "employee prices" on new vehicles to all Americans, GM
announces that it will eliminate 25,000 jobs in the next three years. I wonder
whether those who are going to lose their jobs would trade their discount for
continued employment.

KRIS NESSLER

Georgetown

Cody

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A U.S. military ship patrols in front of Camp Delta in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
Cody

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               50 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 22, 2005 Saturday

PLANT OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: Skip Richter, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F12

LENGTH: 175 words


Mutabilis rose

Old garden roses have the reputation of being able to not only survive but
thrive, despite the stresses of pests, diseases and our Central Texas climate
and lean soils. When it comes to foolproof resilience, few can compare to
Mutabilis and its long blooming season. Originating prior to 1894, this China
rose produces fragrant single flowers that start out sulfur yellow and change to
shades of orange, pink and finally crimson. In full bloom the bush looks like it
is covered

with multicolored butterflies, earning it the nickname of "The Butterfly Rose."
Bronze colored new growth is also very attractive. Mutabilis is very disease
resistant and can be grown without protective sprays. Give it full sun for best
results, but unlike most roses, it will also take some shade. Allow plenty of
room to grow as Mutabilis will reach 6 feet in height and width, forming a
beautiful shrub worthy of a prominent place in the landscape. Don't be afraid to
shear it back often to promote bushy growth and a new flush of blooms.

-- Skip Richter

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               53 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 9, 2005 Sunday

School finance looming large;
Of all the issues facing lawmakers, biggest is how to pay for education

BYLINE: Jason Embry, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1495 words


Whether the 2005 legislative session is a success or failure will depend,
probably more than anything else, on whether lawmakers approve a new system of
paying for public schools.

Along the way, they will debate some of the most controversial topics in
education, such as whether to tie some teacher pay to student test scores and
whether to give private-school vouchers to students at underachieving campuses.

These issues emerge each time the Legislature meets, but now the stakes are
particularly high. For one, a state district judge has said the current $31
billion-a-year finance system is unconstitutional for three main reasons: It
does not give schools the money they need to meet state and federal mandates;
districts have little or no control over their tax rates, effectively making the
levy a state-mandated rate, something banned by the constitution; and some
districts with small tax bases cannot raise money for construction and
renovation the way districts with larger tax bases can.

There is also a primary election in 14 months. Nobody wants to be the candidate
who made sure that school property taxes remained at the maximum rate of $1.50
per $100 of assessed value when politicians and voters alike have spent so many
years calling for a lower rate.

One reason the fix eluded lawmakers during the past two years was that they were
trying to achieve two divergent goals: cutting property taxes and providing a
net increase in school spending.

But the debate is more complicated than that. A new system must include numerous
formulas to determine, for instance, how much to compensate a school because it
is small and rural, or because some of its students speak little English or need
special education. Those nooks and crannies in the system force lawmakers to
look beyond partisanship and ideology.

"School finance is one of those issues that is very unique from a public policy
perspective," said Sherri Greenberg, a former House member from Austin who now
teaches at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of
Texas. "It's not uniform to party affiliation or rural versus urban or suburban.
When members of the Legislature are looking at school finance, they're looking
at what is the funding that their school districts receive and what is it that
their superintendents and chambers of commerce and PTAs are saying that they
need."

Another wrinkle:  Legislative candidates often say they want to eliminate the
so-called Robin Hood provision that requires some of the districts with the
highest levels of property wealth per student to share the money they raise for
school operations with the rest of the districts in the state. While lawmakers
may try to eliminate the share-the-wealth provision because it is politically
unpopular in some areas, Dietz has not ordered them to do so. Instead, he said
that type of provision is necessary as long as the system relies so heavily on
property taxes.

Gov. Rick Perry, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and House Speaker Tom Craddick threw
their support behind separate school finance plans in the past two years. All
three failed.

A monthlong legislative session that focused on school finance ended without a
solution in May, and lawmakers have not met formally since. But legislative
leaders say that they've been working on the issue, and Sen. Florence Shapiro,
R-Plano, said they've made real progress.

"I think we're getting very close to where we want to be," said Shapiro, the
chairwoman of the Senate Education Committee.

She predicted that lawmakers will put $1.5 billion to $2 billion per year into
the system in addition to the spending necessary to keep up with annual
enrollment growth. At current levels, that growth costs roughly $535 million a
year.

"The issue that is still out there to be resolved is the revenue source,"
Shapiro said.

While any tax bill is likely to contain a sales tax increase, some type of new
business tax appears increasingly likely. Lawmakers hope to find one that is
small enough that business owners won't complain too loudly once they remember
the property tax cuts that they're getting at work and at home.

Many businesses legally are able to avoid paying franchise taxes by
incorporating as partnerships.

In order to avoid hurting any one sector too much as they change the business
tax structure, lawmakers may try to craft a system that would allow business
leaders to choose which kind of tax they pay.

They could decide, for instance, that they would rather pay a tax on their
profits than on their payrolls.

Perry has said he does not want to hurt job creation, which is becoming his
signature issue. But he isn't ruling much out.

"Other than an income tax, all of the revenue options are on the table,"
spokeswoman Kathy Walt said.

Bill Hammond, president of the Texas Association of Business, said he wants to
see a 25-cent cut in property taxes. If lawmakers cut more than that, he said,
they're likely to create taxes that will hurt businesses to make up the
difference.

He said businesses pay 56 percent of the state and local taxes collected in
Texas, the sixth-highest share in the country, according to the Council on State
Taxation.

Yet compared with other states, Texas has low taxes overall. The conservative
Tax Foundation says only four states have a lower state and local per capita tax
burden than Texas. The group also says the Texas tax system provides the
country's fourth-best climate for businesses.

The absence of a personal income tax also means that low- and middle-income
families in Texas often pay a greater share of their incomes in taxes than the
wealthy.

According to the liberal Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Texas
families earning between $25,000 and $40,000 pay 8.2 percent of their incomes in
local and state taxes, while those who earn between $69,000 and $147,000 pay
just 5.8 percent. Of course, wealthier families pay more in actual dollars.

But the upcoming revenue debate may not be entirely about taxes.

Earlier proposals have called for the legalization of video lottery terminals,
which are similar to slot machines, at racing tracks and on American Indian
reservations, but conservative legislators have threatened to kill plans that
rely on gambling for school revenue.

If lawmakers do agree on a new system this time around, they're likely to put it
together with scraps of other plans that have failed to catch on so far.

"All the things that we have debated for a year and a half are on the table,"
Shapiro said. "There are no new ideas."

jembry@statesman.com; 445-3654

(box)

Paying for schools

State leaders and lawmakers say drawing up a new system to pay for public
schools is among their highest priorities for the 2005 session. Here are some of
the taxes and other revenue sources that they will look to:

Property tax: The maximum tax rate on maintenance and operations for schools is
now $1.50. Lawmakers and state leaders have discussed making it as low as 75
cents, though $1 or slightly more now seems more likely. For each one-cent
reduction in the tax, the system loses about $108 million a year.

Sales tax: The current state sales tax rate is 6.25 cents, among the 10 highest
rates in the country. Local governments can add up to another 2 cents. Critics
say the sales tax hits poor residents the hardest because they spend a higher
percentage of their income on necessities, and that increasing the tax would
give a windfall to owners of expensive homes and capital-intensive businesses.
Lawmakers could expand the tax to include goods such as newspapers and bottled
water. The comptroller's office has estimated that taxing nonmedical services
would generate more than $3 billion a year.

Cigarette tax: A popular option because it hits a shrinking number of voters,
and politicians can say they're targeting an unhealthy lifestyle. The current
tax is 41 cents per pack, and one lawmaker already has filed a bill to raise it
to $1.41,  which could generate $750 million a year.

Business taxes: Some type of broad-based tax seems increasingly likely.
Lawmakers could tax businesses on their gross receipts, on their profits or on
their payrolls.

Franchise tax: Most businesses in Texas don't pay this tax, which is imposed on
corporations chartered in Texas and on non-Texas corporations that do business
in Texas. The state loses about $400 million a year to businesses that
restructure to avoid the tax. Lawmakers are likely to throw it out if they pass
some sort of broader business tax.

Video-lottery terminals: Some have proposed putting the terminals, which are
similar to slot machines, at horse and dog tracks and at American Indian
reservations. Many lawmakers oppose this because they do not want more
state-sanctioned gambling, but the terminals could come back as a means of
softening other tax increases -- and could generate more than $500 million a
year.

Sources: Staff research, comptroller's office, Center for Public Policy
Priorities

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               55 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 29, 2005 Saturday

Before you plant, think noninvasive

BYLINE: Julie Bonnin, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E12

LENGTH: 722 words


It's hard to think of nandina, a shrub with crimson berries, as bad-guy
vegetation.

Yet there it is, No. 10 on a list of 12 plants prohibited by the Town Lake Trail
Foundation in its guidelines for garden plots along and near the hike-and-bike
trail.

Other banned plants include holly fern and elephant ear. And although it's not
on the banned list, the foundation advises against periwinkle (Vinca major and
minor), the perky ground cover with blue or purplish flowers.

Even natives such as mustang grape, a vine that covers many Hill Country trees,
have proved problematic along the trail -- so much so that the foundation has
begun a well-funded program to uproot the vine and other invasive plants that
threaten native vegetation.

Austin gardeners might have heard similar recommendations -- from the City of
Austin, which publishes the "Grow Green" guide to native and adapted landscape
plants, or the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, a champion of indigenous
plants.

The case against invasive species is made by Wildflower Center ecologist Mark
Simmons. He notes that ash juniper, also known as cedar to Central Texas allergy
sufferers, wasn't a big problem in Texas until more and more land was
cultivated. The wildfires that used to keep ash juniper in check don't happen as
much and so the trees thrive. Similarly, the occasional flooding that would have
knocked down the mustang grape population on Town Lake was eradicated when the
Tom Miller Dam was built. Without such natural controls and other changes in the
ways land is used and managed, even a native plant can cause problems like those
seen along Town Lake. And some exotic plant introductions, such as the
fast-growing shrub ligustrum, have proved disastrous in shading out some of the
native woodland plants that grow along the trail, Simmons says.

Even plants such as nandina, when located far away from the trail, can be spread
long distances. Gardeners who already have some of the forbidden plants can
diminish the potential for problems by trimming back berries, seedheads or
runners, according to the "Grow Green" guide.

Because easily propagated plants are profitable, they're probably going to
continue to be found in many nurseries, Simmons says.

"It's the responsibility of the nursery to be careful about what they put out.
But the onus is going to be on the landowner to be a little bit choosy and be
educated," he adds.

The problem of invasive plants is global, and millions of dollars are being
spent in the United States to control problem plants each year, according to the
U.S. Bureau of Land Management.

Gardeners who want to make an educated choice can consult the City of Austin
guide, which lists problem plants and potential substitutes, or shop the
Wildflower Center's twice-annual plant sale (the next one is April 9 and 10).

"Usually," Simmons says, "There's a good native substitute, or a good
noninvasive substitute."

(box)

Prohibited plants

The Town Lake Trail Foundation has banned these plants: Chinese photinia,
Chinese privet, elephant ear, holly fern, Japanese honeysuckle, kudzu, tamarisk,
ligustrum, mimosa, nandina, pampas grass, pyracantha.

The foundation also recommends avoiding these plants: Golden bamboo, English
Ivy, periwinkle and maiden grass.

Good substitutes

Instead of wisteria, plant passion vine.

Instead of holly fern, plant river fern.

Instead of vinca, plant leadwort plumbago or mountain pea.

Instead of chinaberry, plant chinquapin oak or Texas red oak.

Instead of wax leaf ligustrum, plant Texas sage or Barbados cherry.

Instead of nandina (berrying varieties), plant bush germander, Texas sage or
nonberrying nandina.

Source: City of Austin 'Grow Green' guide to native and adapted landscape plants

PLANT OF THE WEEK

Texas (and Mexican) redbud

In late winter, the redbuds bloom to announce the impending arrival of spring.
The eastern redbud is common throughout the southeastern United States, but is
not as well-adapted in Central Texas as the Texas and Mexican redbuds. These
native types love our soils and climate, forming small trees that do especially
well in sun but will also tolerate a little shade. The leaves of both Texas and
Mexican types are shiny, and the leaves on the Mexican type have wavy edges.
Look for these native redbuds to add some early-season color to your landscape.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nandina
Ligustrum
Mimosa
Pampas grass

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               56 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

The perfect teammate? No. 81 fits bill

BYLINE: Kirk Bohls, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 771 words


JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Terrell Owens says he's "81 percent" healthy. And 100
percent sure he's going to play.

When he does play Sunday against the Patriots, he said, he will be "181
percent."

Owens may be more mathematically challenged than he is health-challenged, but he
could definitely change the numbers in the Super Bowl in Philadelphia's favor.

Did you ever doubt it? He was as playful as he was certain he would play.

His team will be performing on this sport's grandest stage, and No. 81 was going
to sit this one out? Right. And Andy Reid is going to play Peter Pan on
Broadway.

Oh, and don't miss the symmetry between Owens' jersey number and the
jerk-the-press-around, self-promoting degree of his medical condition. The star
wide receiver for the Philadelphia Eagles -- the real star, not to be confused
with Freddie Mitchell, who pops off after catching a bizarre, midair fumble in
the end zone -- was at his Terrell Owens best on Tuesday.

Or Terrell Owens worst. Is there a difference? Depends on your definition and
probably your favorite team. Take your pick.

Owens is the best wide receiver in the game, bar none. If his 77 catches for
1,200 yards and 14 touchdowns didn't confirm it, all you need to know is the
Eagles are here for the Super Bowl for the first time since 1980, largely
because of the five-time Pro Bowl receiver and quarterback Donovan McNabb.

The Eagles landed Owens in one of the most lopsided deals since the Red Sox sold
Babe Ruth to the Yankees. They gave up defensive end Brandon Whiting and a
fifth-round choice? Are you kidding? For a big-play receiver with what is now 95
career touchdowns and 9,772 yards?

No one can impact a game more than Owens. Only Jerry Rice has had more than
Owens' five seasons with 13 or more touchdowns, and the greatest receiver ever
did it eight times.

Owens is Randy Moss without the me-first, what-team antics. Yes, Owens finds the
spotlight more than a stage curtain. But, while the Minnesota Vikings superstar
leaves the field before a game is even done, Owens has never walked out on his
team. While an eyes-rolling Moss gathers no respect for squirting water at an
official or faux mooning the Packer fans -- guess you could call it a half-moon
-- Owens generally has reserved his bombastic showboating for his harmless,
post-touchdown routines. And clean ones, at that.

Owens pulls a Sharpie out of his sock to sign a ball. Big deal. So, dock him for
poor penmanship.

Owens grabs pompoms from a cheerleader and shakes his booty. Is that all that
different from the Lambeau Leap? No one had a problem with him cheering his
teammates from the frigid bench instead of the climate-controlled luxury box
when they whipped the Falcons.

Is there any other receiver you'd rather have on your team? Sure, he has an ego
bigger than Independence Hall. Great players do.

On Tuesday, he held court before no fewer than four dozen media for a full hour
and never bristled or boasted.

So how about a timeout on all the T.O. bashing? He may not receive any
humanitarian awards, but he put up big numbers on the field, made McNabb a
better quarterback, gave his team a legitimate swagger and instilled in the
Eagles the gritty self-confidence to overcome the NFC championship hurdle that
had tripped them up the previous three seasons.

He was downright charming Tuesday. He urged reporters to go visit Pro Bowl
safety Michael Lewis so he could "get a little love."

He invoked God -- eight times, by my count -- and the power of prayer. He said
teammates Jeremiah Trotter and Cory Simon came over to his house and brought
their pastors.

He has, by and large, been the perfect teammate. A distraction? Yes, but he also
takes on his shoulders the lion's share of the heat and removes much of the
pressure from the other Eagles.

If the Eagles lose Sunday, some will knock Owens for selfishly coming back too
soon from his broken fibula and distracting the team. If the Eagles win with
minimal production from Owens, he was grandstanding and returned just more than
six weeks after surgery because he couldn't stand to see McNabb receiving all
the credit.

Don't knock Owens for playing. While he may not risk career-ending injury, he
could sit back and earn a ring with a Philadelphia victory without ever leaving
the sidelines. Who wouldn't want to play in what could be a once-in-a-lifetime
experience?

Who's to say that Owens wouldn't have been a disruptive force had he caught only
three touchdown passes and the Eagles finished 8-8 this year?

But he didn't and they weren't, so Owens should be judged on his play. Or at
least 81 percent of it.

kbohls@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Say what you will about Terrell Owens; without him and Donovan McNabb,
there's no way the Eagles would be in Jacksonville.
A throng of reporters surrounds Philadelphia receiver Terrell Owens on Tuesday.
Don't expect the colorful Owens to be on the sidelines Sunday when his Eagles
play in Super Bowl XXXIX.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               57 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 21, 2005 Monday

In Europe, Bush will urge unity;
Visit aimed at moving beyond rift, seeking help for Iraq, Mideast

BYLINE: Bob Deans, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 844 words


BRUSSELS, Belgium -- President Bush arrived in Belgium on Sunday with a
second-term plea for Europeans to set aside differences with the United States
over the war in Iraq, calling for a "new era of trans-Atlantic unity" and
pledging that "no power on earth will ever divide us."

In a speech to be delivered today, Bush will call on his European counterparts
to pitch in with "tangible" political, economic and security aid to help Iraq in
its troubled march toward democracy. And he will ask for additional European
help to end decades of bloodshed between Palestinians and Israelis.

"As past debates fade, and great duties become clear, let us begin a new era of
trans-Atlantic unity," Bush said in remarks released Sunday by the White House
that were to be delivered today. "Our greatest opportunity, and our immediate
goal, is peace in the Middle East."

Bush picked Europe for the first overseas trip of his second term as a
deliberate step to reach out to NATO allies such as France and Germany, which
opposed Bush in the U.S.-led war in Iraq, as well as countries such as Britain
and Italy, which backed the mission with combat troops.

Bush will deliver what aides describe as a major policy speech at a 19th-century
concert hall. The speech is expected to be widely televised across Europe, and
Bush will target the continent's 370 million people in his remarks.

"The alliance of Europe and North America is the main pillar of our security in
a new century," Bush said in the prepared remarks. "Our strong friendship is
essential to peace and prosperity across the globe, and no temporary debate, no
passing disagreement of governments, no power on earth will ever divide us."

Bush's re-election last November sparked consternation among many Europeans and
across a number of European capitals, where the war in Iraq was widely regarded
as a misguided adventure. The prosecution of the war, the vast insurgency it has
spawned and the prison abuse scandal at Abu Ghraib have only deepened those
resentments.

An alliance of 88 environmental, human rights, peace and other groups planned
two days of protests in Brussels to demand "no European complicity" in a
U.S.-designed world order. Brussels police readied 2,500 officers -- 1,000 more
than the usual number for the three or four summit meetings that bring European
Union leaders to the Belgian capital every year.

Hoping to calm such opposition, Bush, in his speech, will spotlight the long
alliance between Europe and the United States, which together defeated Nazi
Germany 60 years ago this spring, and then, through the NATO alliance, stood
down nearly five decades of Cold War against the former Soviet Union.

With those missions behind them, Bush is calling on the allies to help transform
the Middle East from a land of dictatorships to a place where democracy and free
markets can take hold.

Bush will call on Europeans to vest new faith in the Iraqi people, who defied
the insurgent threat to vote in national elections last month.

While seeking to move past old divisions, Bush and European leaders still face
major differences.

Washington opposes Europe's plans to lift a 15-year-old arms embargo against
China. Bush has been cool toward Europe's negotiations to persuade Iran to
abandon its suspected nuclear weapons program. The White House prefers asking
the U.N. Security Council to punish Tehran.

Hard feelings linger from Bush's opposition to the Kyoto climate change treaty
and the International Criminal Court.

Bush expresses support for Europe's democratic unity in his speech and says
Washington supports a strong Europe. He also says Washington shares Europe's
concern about global poverty.

Tonight, Bush will meet one of the harshest critics of the war in Iraq when he
is host to French President Jacques Chirac for dinner at the official residence
of American Ambassador Tom Korologos. Bush and Chirac are expected to talk about
Iran and about ways to persuade Syria to withdraw the 15,000 troops it maintains
in Lebanon.

The two are also expected to talk about ways to capitalize on what Bush regards
as a promising moment for revitalizing Mideast peace talks, in the wake of the
death last fall of longtime Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, whom Bush regarded
as an impediment to peace.

Bush will meet with his NATO and European Union counterparts in Brussels on
Tuesday, before traveling to Germany on Wednesday for a meeting with German
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. On Thursday, Bush will meet in Slovakia with
Russian President Vladimir Putin. In a signal of unity, NATO is expected to
announce Tuesday that all 26 allies finally have agreed to contribute to the
alliance mission to train Iraq's armed forces, even though some will work only
outside the country or just help cover costs.

The world's most powerful military alliance has struggled to find the 160
instructors it needs to complete the first phase of the operation, which offers
training for senior officers within Baghdad's heavily guarded Green Zone.

bobdeans@coxnews.com

Additional material from news services.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Bush: Speech set for today will focus on past alliances, new
opportunities.
Jacques Chirac: French leader and critic of Iraq war will dine with Bush
tonight.
An alliance of 88 environmental, human rights, peace and other groups has
planned two days of protests in Brussels to demand 'no European complicity' in a
U.S.-designed world order. Sunday's protest featured a caricature of President
Bush, right, who arrived in Belgium on Sunday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               58 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 21, 2005 Monday

In speech to Europe, Bush to press for unity;
Visit intended to heal rift over Iraq war, seek help on Mideast peace

BYLINE: Bob Deans, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 673 words


BRUSSELS, Belgium -- President Bush arrived in Belgium on Sunday with a
second-term plea for Europeans to set aside differences with the United States
over the war in Iraq, calling for a "new era of trans-Atlantic unity" and
pledging that "no power on earth will ever divide us."

In a speech to be delivered today, Bush will call on his European counterparts
to pitch in with "tangible" political, economic and security aid to help Iraq in
its troubled march toward democracy. And he will ask for additional European
help to end decades of bloodshed between Palestinians and Israelis.

"As past debates fade, and great duties become clear, let us begin a new era of
trans-Atlantic unity," Bush says in remarks released Sunday by the White House
that were to be delivered today. "Our greatest opportunity, and our immediate
goal, is peace in the Middle East."

Bush picked Europe for the first overseas trip of his second term as a
deliberate step to reach out to NATO allies such as France and Germany, which
opposed Bush in the U.S.-led war in Iraq, as well as countries such as Britain
and Italy, which backed the mission with combat troops.

Bush will deliver what aides describe as a major policy speech at a 19th-century
concert hall. The speech is expected to be widely televised across Europe, and
Bush will target the continent's 370 million people in his remarks.

"The alliance of Europe and North America is the main pillar of our security in
a new century," Bush's prepared remarks say. "Our strong friendship is essential
to peace and prosperity across the globe, and no temporary debate, no passing
disagreement of governments, no power on earth will ever divide us."

Bush's re-election last November sparked consternation among many Europeans and
across a number of European capitals, where the war in Iraq was widely regarded
as a misguided adventure. The prosecution of the war, the vast insurgency it has
spawned and the prison abuse scandal at Abu Ghraib have only deepened those
resentments.

An alliance of 88 environmental, human rights, peace and other groups planned
two days of protests in Brussels to demand "no European complicity" in a
U.S.-designed world order. Brussels police readied 2,500 officers -- 1,000 more
than the usual number for the three or four summit meetings that bring European
Union leaders to the Belgian capital every year.

Hoping to calm such opposition, Bush, in his speech, will spotlight the long
alliance between Europe and the United States, which together defeated Nazi
Germany 60 years ago this spring, and then, through the NATO alliance, stood
down nearly five decades of Cold War against the former Soviet Union.

With those missions behind them, Bush is calling on the allies to help transform
the Middle East from a land of dictatorships to a place where democracy and free
markets can take hold.

While seeking to move past old divisions, Bush and European leaders still face
major differences.

Washington opposes Europe's plans to lift a 15-year-old arms embargo against
China. Bush has been cool toward Europe's negotiations to persuade Iran to
abandon its suspected nuclear weapons program. The White House wants the U.N.
Security Council to punish Tehran.

Hard feelings linger from Bush's opposition to the Kyoto climate change treaty
and the International Criminal Court.

Bush expresses support for Europe's democratic unity in his speech and says
Washington supports a strong Europe. He also says Washington shares Europe's
concern about poverty.

Tonight, Bush will meet one of the harshest critics of the war in Iraq when he
is host to French President Jacques Chirac for dinner at the official residence
of American Ambassador Tom Korologos. Bush and Chirac are expected to talk about
Iran and about ways to persuade Syria to withdraw the 15,000 troops it maintains
in Lebanon.

The two are also expected to talk about ways to capitalize on what Bush regards
as a promising moment for revitalizing Mideast peace talks.

bobdeans@coxnews.com

Additional material from news services.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jacques Chirac
An alliance of 88 environmental, human rights, peace and other groups has
planned two days of protests in Brussels to demand 'no European complicity' in a
U.S.-designed world order. Sunday's protest featured a caricature of President
Bush, right, who arrived in Belgium on Sunday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               59 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 21, 2005 Monday

Businesses, Pflugerville wants you;
Bedroom community knows it needs to boost its tax base, but it's still trying to
figure out how

BYLINE: Marty Toohey, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1247 words


Pflugerville has taken the first step in what city leaders promise is a race to
attract business before a rare second chance slips out of reach.

The city approved its first business-incentive package Feb. 8 for Merit Electric
Co., a Houston-based company expanding into the Austin area and bringing about
40 jobs right away.

The company represents the kind of industry that officials say Pflugerville
desperately needs. The city is a burgeoning bedroom community, sandwiched
between the high-tech economies of Austin and Round Rock.

Subdivisions have sprouted throughout Pflugerville's 14 square miles, bringing
nice homes and a middle-class feel to a place that not long ago was a farming
town. But while the city's population has boomed, its industry has not. There is
almost no business presence, aside from a small downtown and some clusters of
fast-food joints and dollar stores. Even the big retail stores that inevitably
follow residential growth are just now making overtures.

Mirroring that residential character, the city's government is funded
disproportionately by property taxes. The tax rate is 31 percent higher than
Austin's.

Residents, despite wanting to preserve their city's family-oriented feel, have
encouraged city officials in recent public meetings to seek out businesses.

City officials say they'll oblige. Having missed out on the commercial boom
along Interstate 35, Pflugerville does not plan to let that happen again.

More business, they say, will help pay for roads and other necessary services,
as well as goodies such as a community center.

An upcoming change in the lay of the land will help. Merit Electric is coming.
So is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. City leaders hope others aren't far behind.

A missed opportunity

In a sense, the best business opportunities passed Pflugerville by years ago.

Most Pflugerville residents work and shop outside the city limits. A city
spreadsheet, based on numbers from the state comptroller's office, shows that,
of the 95 Texas towns about Pflugerville's size, only four generate less sales
tax annually per resident than the $5.26 Pflugerville did in 2003.

Nearby I-35 is the kind of location most major retailers want. But that prime
real estate is actually within the boundaries of Round Rock and Austin, both of
which extended their reach to the area before Pflugerville incorporated in 1965.

The result is that those cities, not Pflugerville, have reaped the economic
benefits created by businesses such as a Tinseltown movie theater and an H-E-B
grocery.

"I tell people our blessing is also our curse," said Rick Murphy, who is head of
day-to-day operations for the Pflugerville Community Development Corp., a
taxpayer-funded entity voters created three years ago to attract more
businesses. "We have a wonderful location that's just off I-35. But the problem
is that it's also just off I-35."

The city remained small enough through the 1980s that it didn't need many
services and thus didn't need to expand its tax base much, Murphy said.
Residents liked the sleepy feel. But, Murphy added, with a population that has
grown from 745 in 1980 to 16,000 in 2000 to 26,000-plus now, Pflugerville has
found itself "in a Texas-sized Rip van Winkle situation." Current estimates put
the city's population at 100,000 by 2025.

Pflugerville had appeared locked into its economic box, with no land left to
annex off a major thoroughfare. But the picture is changing. The city, which
missed out on I-35, is getting a second chance.

It's coming at 70 mph, in the form of Texas 130.

Prime location

The tollway will run right through Pflugerville. A six-lane turnpike from I-35
north of Georgetown to U.S. 183 on the south, 130 is expected to become the kind
of location businesses covet. It's tentatively scheduled to open in December
2007.

Charles Gates, a construction manager with Merit Electric, said the highway's
arrival played a major role in the company choosing Pflugerville. Merit Electric
provides electrical maintenance services and has contracts with Dell Inc. and
Marriott International Inc., among others.

Although the city gave the company an incentive package worth up to $39,650, the
money comes in the form of reimbursements on application and development fees.
The package played a small role, Gates said.

Murphy, the economic development coordinator, said he's seeking other businesses
eager to capitalize on the new highway. City leaders are now turning their
attention to answering a fundamental question: What type of business do
residents actually want?

A horse track apparently didn't meet their desires. It would have sat near Texas
130 and Texas 45 North, another planned toll road. Proponents touted the track
as a means of bolstering the city's economy and sparking business growth. But
its backers dropped the idea earlier this month, after vocal opponents voted it
down in a referendum that, though not binding, showed overwhelming opposition.

Several critics of the racetrack said city leaders did not properly keep them
informed about the plans, adding that a large retailer and surrounding shops
would better serve Pflugerville. One critic is seeking the signatures to recall
the entire City Council because of the horse track.

Four days after the referendum, Mayor Cat Callen hosted a town-hall-style
meeting on economic development issues. About 60 residents attended. They said
they want more businesses. They counted hotels, light-industrial developments
and retailers such as Sears, Roebuck and Co. among those they like. They cited
rowdy bars, pawn shops and heavy manufacturing among those they don't. Wal-Mart
made both lists.

The company is planning a 203,000-square-foot Wal-Mart Supercenter near Texas
130 and Texas 45 North. The store is expected to generate about $750,000 per
year in sales tax revenue for Pflugerville, plus another $300,000 in property
taxes, according to city data. It would be Pflugerville's biggest tax generator
by far. And it would bring jobs.

But it is, after all, a Wal-Mart. At the town-hall meeting one woman objected to
the company's plans and cited a Virginia town she said has even less business
development than Pflugerville. If those residents can turn away Wal-Mart, she
said, so can her hometown.

Callen, the mayor (and a software developer who moved to Pflugerville in 2001),
told the audience that Wal-Mart would not be her first choice.

"But looking at our financial situation," she said, "I don't think we can say
no."

The next step, Callen said, is soliciting public input and creating master plans
for several parts of town. The plans would guide development for years to come,
she said.

To ensure land is developed as stores and restaurants, the city spent $2 million
in November to buy 130 acres near an artificial lake under construction. Murphy
said the city wants the land for "primary employers," such as light
manufacturing or software developing, as opposed to restaurants or shops. The
city is also contemplating annexing land along the Texas 130 route and extending
utilities in an effort to encourage businesses to move in.

A map of Pflugerville in Murphy's office shows 13 major approved but unbuilt
subdivisions, marked in purple. More are coming, he said.

The choice facing the city is, what happens to the swaths of unmarked land? If
land doesn't attract business in the next couple of years, it will attract
homes, Murphy predicts, and keep Pflugerville's situation as it is now, only
more so.

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rick Murphy of the Pflugerville Community Development Corp. is seeking
businesses that can capitalize on Texas 130, the toll road that's rising behind
the Falcon Pointe neighborhood. The city needs a bigger tax base to serve a
population that has grown from 745 in 1980 to 26,000-plus.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               60 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday

BLACK CINEMA verite;
Before Oprah and Halle, there was Lena and Hattie. But was there really such a
thing as Black Hollywood?

BYLINE: Craig Watkins, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. K5

LENGTH: 1134 words


Near the end of "Baadasssss Cinema," Isaac Julien's 2002 documentary on the rise
and fall of blaxploitation film, the director asks Fred Williamson, who starred
in such classics as "Black Caesar" and "Hell Up in Harlem," if "a Black
Hollywood" existed during the 1970s. Williamson pauses for a few seconds and
then gives Julien a self-assured look. "Yeah, right," he says.

Williamson's diffident response speaks volumes about the black experience in
Hollywood. Even when black actors and actresses found steady work and the film
industry was targeting black audiences, black power didn't amount to much in
movie land. Even today, despite the presence of power brokers such as Oprah
Winfrey, industry rebels such as Spike Lee and Oscar-winners such as Denzel
Washington, there's no black person who can green-light a picture. Still, if you
ask film historian Donald Bogle if a Black Hollywood exists, you'll get a
remarkable answer: a resounding "Yes!"

In his latest book, "Bright Boulevards, Bold Dreams," Bogle, author of "Toms,
Coons, Mulattoes, Mammies & Bucks: An Interpretive History of Blacks in American
Films," argues that a significant black presence in Hollywood formed long before
blaxploitation's ghetto chic heroes and heroines hit the silver screen. As far
back as the 1920s, he maintains, blacks began to create their own colony within
Hollywood's burgeoning social scene and celebrity culture. His definition of
Black Hollywood includes movie stars, extras, musicians, casting directors,
journalists, composers, maids, butlers, chauffeurs, architects and social
activists. He is describing, in short, the rise of Los Angeles' black
bourgeoisie.

Several of the characters who populate the nearly 400-page book -- Lena Horne,
the Nicholas Brothers, Paul Robeson, Ethel Waters, Sammy Davis Jr., Dorothy
Dandridge -- will be familiar to readers. But lesser-known characters also
emerge. One such character is Central Avenue, which is touted by Bogle as the
Harlem of the West. Central Avenue is portrayed as the place where a black elite
formed in the shadows of Hollywood. Along its blocks were restaurants,
nightclubs, cafes, shops and one of the grandest hotels at the time for black
celebrities -- the Somerville. Black entertainers such as Louis Armstrong,
Billie Holiday and Duke Ellington, who were banned from staying in Hollywood's
premier hotels, stayed at the Somerville.

Though California wasn't a part of Jim Crow, it was not immune to the racism
that characterized the South and the rest of the nation. Bogle identifies the
indignities that black Angelenos endured -- restrictive covenants, industry
stereotyping and second-class citizenship. The members of Bogle's Black
Hollywood did not have access to the privileges, prestige and prospects enjoyed
by their more celebrated counterparts. Though these conditions are not the focal
point of Bogle's book, they are a focal point of another story -- the story of
early Hollywood and, by extension, the story of early 20th century America. What
"Bright Boulevards" lacks is an effective treatment of this larger social and
historical stage.

Bogle's greatest strength -- his entertaining and lively accounts of the
peculiarities and peccadilloes of Black Hollywood -- is also his greatest
weakness. Bogle collects some delicious anecdotes that add intrigue to a figure
-- Stepin Fetchit -- that history has long dismissed as a tragic victim of
Hollywood's misrepresentation of blacks. Whenever he wanted to refuse one of the
demands of Fox Pictures chief Darryl F. Zanuck, Fetchit would tell his boss that
he needed to check with his manager, Mr. Goldberg. One day, during a
particularly heated negotiation, a furious Zanuck asked for Goldberg's phone
number. At that point Fetchit confessed: "I'm Mr. Goldberg."

Likewise, Bogle's account of Hattie McDaniel, the first black person to win an
Academy Award (for her role as Mammy in "Gone With the Wind") presents colorful
examples from her personal life -- multiple marriages, socialite inclinations
and a matriarchal mystique among Hollywood's black elite -- that take readers
beyond the "black mammy" caricature she personified in film.

But in many other instances, Bogle's book echoes the Hollywood-obsessed tabloid
press -- "Bright Boulevards" is filled with dishy details, gossip, rumor and
some of the more celebrated myths and facts regarding the private and sexual
eccentricities of some of Black Hollywood's most arresting personalities.

Throughout the book Bogle is drawn to what he calls Hollywood's "enduring
taboo," sexual intimacy across racial lines. From Dandridge to Sammy Davis Jr.,
Bogle gives the subject extensive attention. He even goes into detail about the
sexual life of Joel Fluellen, a gay, bit-part actor who was better known as a
hanger-on.

What's missing is a fuller assessment of the mark Hollywood's first generation
of black players and pretenders, stars and starlets, mavens and mavericks made
on American culture. The struggle of blacks to gain a foothold in Hollywood had
much in common with the larger struggle of black America. In the midst of great
social change in the first half of the 20th century, both at home and abroad,
Bogle's Black Hollywood anticipated many of the themes that would define
American politics and culture in the century's latter half: the struggle for
racial justice, meaningful participation in public life and the effort to make
the media industries more responsive to a changing racial climate. Though he
certainly understands this, Bogle fails to explore it in any satisfying depth.
When the original Black Hollywood experienced a changing of the guard in the
'50s and '60s, venerable civil rights groups such as the NAACP applied more
pressure on the industry to capture the social and political shifts that were
redefining black America. But Bogle, for whatever reason, chooses not to tell
this story.

Bogle typically relies on the allure of the anecdote rather than the acumen of
analysis. His first book, "Toms, Coons, Mulattoes, Mammies, & Bucks," focuses on
the black image in film, but offers little analysis of the industry or the
social world that produced them. In "Bright Boulevards," as in his previous
offerings, he moves swiftly across wide terrain and mingles amid a large cast of
characters, but fails to establish what, exactly, Black Hollywood's legacy was.
Perhaps, aside from some wonderful performances and the arrival of America's
first black celebrity class, there really was none.

Black Hollywood?

Maybe Fred Williamson had it right.

S. Craig Watkins is an associate professor in the Department of Radio Television
Film at the University of Texas. His latest book, 'Hip Hop Matters: Politics,
Pop Culture, and the Struggle for the Soul of a Movement,' comes out in August
from Beacon Press.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Donald Bogle
Dorothy Dandridge
Stepin Fetchit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               61 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 31, 2005 Thursday

Pay your taxes already? IRS study should have you seeing red

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 466 words


If the recent Internal Revenue Service study of tax-dodging Americans is
accurate, it is a national scandal. The report said that as much as $353 billion
in taxes owed is uncollected each year.

About 80 percent of that estimate was from underreporting of income. The rest is
attributed to those who don't file returns or who file and don't pay. This tax
gap -- the difference between what is owed and what is collected on time --
could go a long way toward ending Washington's annual budget deficit if it were
deposited in the federal treasury.

There are many reasons for this stunning non-compliance, including self-employed
workers who underreport, owners who deal in cash, and a flourishing underground
economy.

Other sources include a complicated, confusing tax code and tax shelters that
allow the investor class to hide income.

Although the IRS study points to an administrative problem of sizeable
proportion, there is a political aspect to the problem, too.

Solutions will inevitably involve closing loopholes and cracking down on the
wealthy, investors and those who use tax shelters -- which includes campaign
contributors and political players.

Obvious solutions, such as simplifying the tax code, also run into opposition
from an industry that exists because the tax laws are so onerous. There is money
to be made in using the massive tax law to its fullest advantage when it comes
to not paying taxes.

But Congress has an obligation to the 183 million Americans who filed tax
returns last year and to the future generations we are indebting. It should
insist that the IRS collect the full bill. By the IRS's own estimate, more than
15 percent of the total tax owed is uncollected annually.

U.S. Sen. Kent Conrad, D-North Dakota, was quoted in the Wall Street Journal
saying that is "a staggering sum of lost revenue that deserves Washington's
immediate attention." The IRS numbers are just an estimate -- an educated guess
-- but they should be worthy of national attention.

The IRS conducts audits each year, but officials with the service said too few
of those result in a change in the amount of taxes owed.

IRS Commissioner Mark Everson said the agency will be more aggressive about
auditing high-income taxpayers, corporations and abusive tax shelters this year.

In this political climate, many Americans are rightfully skeptical of the IRS
taking on the highest earners and making them pay their fair share. Or of
Congress revamping the tax code to make it simpler and clearer and more
difficult to dodge.

But that is exactly what ought to happen. As April 15 -- tax day -- approaches,
the IRS report is a painful reminder of just how broken the tax system is in the
United States.

A hearing on the IRS's problems is scheduled in the Senate Finance Committee on
April 14.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               63 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 23, 2005 Saturday

Bigger Jetta delivers highbrow feel at Everyman price

BYLINE: Pete Szilagyi, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E5

LENGTH: 912 words


That dull thud heard around Europe last year was Volkswagen falling off its high
horse. Or if not a fall, at least a graceless dismount.

Considerable capital and time in the last decade went into developing VW's
Phaeton luxury sedan, the brainchild of starstruck executives who decided
Volkswagen should be competing directly with Mercedes-Benz and BMW in the
high-luxe market.

The Phaeton turned out to be an engineering and aesthetic success, but at a
price ($70,000 to $100,000) that not enough people wanted to pay. Worse, the
project seems to have distracted VW from its core products: Jettas, Golfs and
Passats. Sales of those cars have fallen sharply in recent years.

New generations of all three models are finally queued for introduction, with
the most popular, the Jetta, going on sale last month. The new Passat comes
later in 2005 and the Golf next year.

VW fans will be pleased to know the company's engineers have not lost their
touch. As with previous models, the 2005 Jetta is a classy, satisfying and
fairly inexpensive way to get into a German sedan. Stretched at all dimensions,
it is now large enough to qualify as a family sedan instead of just a single
person's runabout.

Prices of this fifth generation are notably higher than the old Jetta's, with
the 2005 base model starting at $17,900 and topping $26,000 as amenities are
added. The volume model, simply called the "2.5," is $20,390. Add $650 in
freight.

My week's test drive of an almost fully optioned Jetta affirmed once again that,
even in this homogenized world, German cars remain distinctive in a very
appealing way. Although roughly the same price and size as a Honda Accord or
Toyota Camry, the Jetta is a lot more fun to drive.

Inside and out, the new Jetta's styling has a less tailored look than its
predecessor, with more curves and chrome. The Jetta's prominent grille suggests
the distinctive noses on Audi's new A4 and A6 luxury sedans. Perhaps that's a
reminder to consumers that Audi is a corporate cousin.

So far, just one Jetta engine is available: a new inline five-cylinder with
moderate horsepower (150) but ample torque (170) to deliver useful, if not
stirring, acceleration at most speeds. It's quiet and relatively smooth, with
some vibration at idle. During my test drive of several hundred miles, gas
mileage averaged 28.5 on the highway and about 20 in the city. The new automatic
transmission, which includes VW's Tiptronic self-shifting feature, is a 6-speed
with timely, unobtrusive gear changes.

In the 25 years they've been sold in the States, Jettas have always been tight,
rigid little cars, but the new generation has the vaultlike body of a small BMW
or Mercedes. The doors close solidly and the updated independent suspension does
its job without interference from a flexing body. Ride quality is firm.

The Jetta uses steering assisted by an electric motor instead of the traditional
hydraulic pump, a challenge to engineers charged with calibrating driver feel
and input. VW's system still feels hydraulic, and that's a compliment to its
precision and feedback.

Handling and other dynamic responses are a bit less sporty, and the tires less
grippy, than those of an entry-priced BMW 3 Series sedan. But look at VW's
comparatively modest price, which includes generous safety equipment: six
airbags, anti-lock brakes, traction control and, except on the base model,
electronic skid control.

The new Jetta's added 7-inch length and corresponding height and width increases
made the cabin more roomy and comfortable, with a back seat large enough to
accommodate more than just children. (Rear seat space has always been a Jetta
sore spot.) The trunk is now the size of a Buick's, or so it seems.

Designers gave the Jetta a high beltline (the bottom line of the side windows)
and tall dashboard, which may compromise the visibility of smaller drivers. The
resulting roofline shades more sun from the cabin, but the visors still need to
be larger.

Dashboard design isn't as attractive, but material selection and quality is
excellent. Overall seat comfort and ergonomics also are quite good. I especially
appreciated two well-situated 12-volt outlets up front, and the precise way the
doors, hood and glove compartment worked. Someone sweated the details and it
shows.

Later this year, three more Jetta iterations reach showrooms: the turbo diesel
engine, station wagon and 2-liter, four-cylinder, gasoline turbo shared with
Audi.

Pete Szilagyi answers questions about cars by e-mail at petesz@macconnect.

com. An archive of past columns is at www.drivingwithpete.com.

(box)

Consumer information for the 2005 Volkswagen Jetta with Package 2 options

Base price: $25,050

(Amenities on test vehicle include power seats, leather seats, XM satellite
radio, rear sunshade, wood trim, automatic climate control.)

Freight: $650

Total: $25,700

Approximate state tax, title, license: $1,756

Sample financing: $5,491 down (20 percent), balance financed for 48 months at 6
percent. Monthly payments $516.

EPA mileage estimates: 22 city, 30 highway

Safety equipment: Front airbags, side thorax airbags, side curtain airbags,
anti-lock brakes standard

Drive: Front wheels

Where made: Puebla, Puebla

Consumer information is provided by Volkswagen of America. Payments are based on
prevailing rates for 48-month new car loans.

Summary:

Highs: Comfort, style, personality, driveability

Lows: Unproven reliability and resale value

Bottom line: A delightful end to a long wait

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jetta offers more room for the family without sacrificing zest.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               64 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 24, 2005 Sunday

THEATER REVIEW;
Star-spangled 'Tuna' ignites new laughs

BYLINE: Michael Barnes, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. K3

LENGTH: 477 words


Passing thoughts on the revival of "Red, White and Tuna" at the Paramount
Theatre:

* Joe Sears and Jaston Williams, stars of the Austin-based "Tuna Trilogy," don't
seem to age. From my seat on Row L, they appeared as spry and sly Wednesday as
they did more than 20 years ago when the small-town Texas characters grew out of
the pair's party-game improvisations.

* This attracts little press: Sears and Williams are gifted mimes. Brushing away
imaginary crumbs, snapping shut an invisible joint case, they delicately conjure
a complete world of everyday objects, without using actual props.

* Speaking of simplicity in staging, the actors also turn two tables and four
chairs into a radio station sound booth, a country kitchen, a front porch,
several cars, a motel bedroom and much, much more.

* Sears and Williams are not afraid to introduce new jokes. Heard for the first
time Wednesday: a reference to Tom DeLay and the song "You Can't Hide Your Lying
Eyes."

* Former Paramount director Paul Beutel liked to say that the "Tuna" crowd
doesn't attend any other kind of theater. They are, however, culturally alert.
Not only did they roar at the DeLay jab, they guffawed at a complicated camp
reference to the Greek tragedy "Oedipus Rex."

* Sears and Williams are equal-opportunity satirists. They are just as
devastating playing a couple of hippie flakes -- the only two characters added
to this, the third installment in the trilogy -- as they are at the
Bible-thumping Moral Majority types they introduced in the early 1980s.

* "Red, Hot" is looser, structurally, than "A Tuna Christmas" and its humor
sometimes does not grow organically from the situations or characters. Still, it
wins hearts with its glowing humanity, including the tender scenes between the
formidable Pearl and her rebel nephew, as well as the budding sexuality of
divorcees Bertha and Arles in their final honeymoon scene.

* "Tuna" is a lot more subversive than most of its fans would admit. Best
example: Just before the Bertha-Arles romp, Sears and Williams change costumes
in full view of the audience. This breaks with the conventions of earlier shows,
a jolt that reminds the spectators that these performers are two men, one of
them in drag.

Thus, as they cavort around the imaginary motel bed to the delight of onlookers,
it is impossible to sweep from one's mind that they are men. Given the current
social and political climate, this forms a powerful, if perhaps subliminal
rhetorical argument about the universality of love and relationships among
consenting adults.

And you thought "Tuna" was a flimsy spoof of Texas foibles. Think again.

(from box)

'Red, White

and Tuna'

When:  2 and 7:30 p.m. today, 8 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, 2 and 8 p.m. Saturday, 2
and 7:30 p.m. May 1

Where:  Paramount Theatre, 713 Congress Ave.

Tickets:  $23-$48

Information: 469-SHOW, www.startickets.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: When Arles (Jaston Williams) and Bertha (Joe Sears) have a romp, they
toss in a subtle and subversive reminder to the audience members that they're
watching two men.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               66 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 10, 2005 Sunday

Attacks might boost Blair's support;
After criticism over Iraq, premier's star might be on rise again

BYLINE: Shelley Emling, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 642 words


LONDON -- Before the World Trade Center attacks, New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani
was a scandal-tarred grumpster whose political career was running on empty.

After the attacks, Giuliani was Rudy the Rock, basking in global praise for his
courageous leadership.

Now some people are wondering whether the same turnaround is in store for
British Prime Minister Tony Blair.

Already, Blair has re-emerged as Britain's master of the human touch after
months of being criticized for being President Bush's lapdog by supporting the
war in Iraq.

In the aftermath of London's terrorist attacks, many say Blair showed leadership
by balancing the G-8 summit with a trip to London to illustrate his concern over
the victims. His reassuring tone and forceful words have comforted many an
unnerved Briton.

"So far, he's done well," said David Lehmann, a sociologist at Cambridge
University.

He said Blair struck all the right notes during his public comments since
Thursday's attacks, acting both dignified and determined as he assured the world
that the bombings would not weaken Britain's resolve in fighting terrorism.

But Edward Turzanski, a political analyst at La Salle University in
Philadelphia, said it's too soon to tell whether Blair will be seen in the same
light as Giuliani.

"Given his words and mannerisms, it is more likely than not that he will be seen
more like Winston Churchill than Jimmy Carter, America's embodiment of weak
executive leadership," he said. "The comparison with Giuliani is a bit difficult
because the attacks against America were, to most, completely unexpected, while
London's atrocity was, by most, anticipated to happen at some point."

Charles Kupchan, an international relations specialist at Georgetown University
in Washington, said he doesn't believe that Blair will follow Giuliani's
trajectory.

"Blair's standing in Britain has been compromised by the Iraq war and the
ongoing flap about its justification, or lack thereof," he said. "But societies
in general rally around the flag when attacked, and Blair's reputation for
steadiness and resolve will wear well."

The good news for Blair, Turzanski said, is that he can expect the British
public to especially rally around his foreign policy.

"At the same time, though, the public will be demanding to know what his
government knew and when they knew it in terms of these attacks," he said.

"If it turns out that the attacks had a home-grown component, there will also be
a demand to strike a more aggressive posture towards known Islamic radicals
within Britain."

Lehmann said that support for some of Blair's more controversial anti-terrorism
measures, such as the implementation of a national system of identity cards,
should receive a boost from the attacks.

In general, support for Blair, who won re-election in May with a greatly reduced
majority in Parliament, had waned considerably over the past year, due mostly to
Iraq. Indeed, accusations have grown that Blair misled the British public in the
runup to war.

Nevertheless, even before Thursday's attacks, Blair's political fortunes were
beginning to shift. He had won glowing praise for his part in securing London's
win of the 2012 Olympics. And he'd been widely commended for his emphasis on
combating poverty in Africa while also shining more attention on climate change.

How Blair continues to handle himself in the coming weeks could either cause a
reversal in fortunes or boost his growing stature even more.

According to The Guardian newspaper, Blair can't know whether some will blame
him for putting Londoners in the frontline by joining an unpopular war. But the
newspaper said the political tide is just as likely to turn in the other
direction.

"Blair may be judged to have been right to claim that a new and unrestrained
terrorist threat was stalking the west in the wake of September 11," it said.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               67 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 29, 2005 Saturday

NEWSMAKERS

BYLINE: Nyerges, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 558 words


(caption)

Remind me: Where is this in my contract?

Olympic skaters Kurt Browning, left, and Katerina Witt, right, rescue 'Good
Morning America' host Diane Sawyer at a rink that opened Friday at Bryant Park
in New York.In this photo provided by ABC, "Good Morning America" host Diane
Sawyer, center, is helped by Olympic skaters Kurt Browning, left, and Katerina
Witt at a new skating rink that opened Friday, Oct. 28, 2005, at Bryant Park in
New York.   (AP Photo/ABC, Ida Mae Astute ),

'Star Trek' star: I'm gay

George Takei, best known for his role as Mr. Sulu in "Star Trek," came out as
homosexual in the current issue of a magazine covering the Los Angeles gay and
lesbian community.

Takei told The Associated Press on Thursday that his new stage role as
psychologist Martin Dysart in "Equus," helped inspire him to publicly discuss
his sexuality.

Takei described the character as a "very contained but turbulently frustrated
man." The play opened Wednesday in Los Angeles, the same day that Frontiers
magazine featured a story on Takei's coming out.

The current social and political climate also motivated Takei's disclosure, he
said.

"The world has changed from when I was a young teen feeling ashamed for being
gay," he said. "The issue of gay marriage is now a political issue. That would
have been unthinkable when I was young."

The 68-year-old actor said he and his partner, Brad Altman, have been together
for 18 years.

Takei, a Japanese-American who lived in a U.S. internment camp from ages 4 to 8,
said he grew up feeling ashamed of his ethnicity and sexuality. He likened
prejudice against gays to racial segregation.

"It's against basic decency and what American values stand for," he said.

Roasting an easy target

Ridiculous hair. A talent for overstatement. There was more than enough of both
to go around Friday as Donald Trump led a roast of Don King at the Friars Club.
The boxing promoter merrily withstood a barrage of jabs, hooks and uppercuts.

"We have two slicksters up here today," the Rev. Al Sharpton said. "One they
call a mogul, the other they call a mugger. That's race in America."

There were several boxers in attendance for King, who has a reputation for
swindling the fighters he promotes. "Smokin"' Joe Frazier, who fought Muhammad
Ali in the King-promoted "Thrilla in Manila," was there.

As is custom, the affair was filled with bad language, vulgarity and racial
slurs. After one especially lewd joke, comedian Jackie Martling said, "I'm glad
you laughed at that joke. Pat O'Brien left it on my answering machine."

Music soothes singer

Kenny Chesney says his music has helped him deal with the breakup of his brief
marriage to "Bridget Jones" actress Renee Zellweger.

"It's like medicine -- and obviously I need that now," the 37-year-old country
singer tells Life magazine in an upcoming issue.

His new album, "The Road and the Radio," is set for release Nov. 8.

Zellweger filed for an annulment last month. The couple married in a surprise
Caribbean island ceremony in May after meeting in January.

Chesney tells the magazine he has learned he must be more patient. " 'I need it
all and I need it now' was my mentality before."

Today's birthdays

Country singer Lee Clayton is 63. Rock musician Denny Laine is 61. Musician
Peter Green is 59. Actress Joely Fisher is 38.

Newsmakers compiled by S. Nyerges

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kenny Chesney: Country star's marriage to actress ended after a few
months.
Don King: Boxing promoter gracefully took ribbing from all sides at roast.
George Takei: Actor says role, societal changes prompted his coming out.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               68 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 29, 2005 Saturday

Sex criminal crackdown suggested;
Panel members want tougher sentences;
critics question effect on already full prisons

BYLINE: Mike Ward, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 857 words


High-risk sex offenders whose victims were children could be in for much tougher
prison sentences if members of a gubernatorial commission get their way.

Although their views still have to get past skeptical legislative leaders before
they can become law, they already are spurring discussion and debate within
Texas criminal justice circles, even before the Governor's Criminal Justice
Advisory Council completes its final report.

Draft recommendations that soon will be submitted to the council call for
mandatory life sentences for high-risk offenders -- such as those who are
convicted of an aggravated sex offense a second time or who fail to register
with police after they leave prison. The proposals will come from a council
committee that has been studying issues regarding sex offenders.

Members want high-risk offenders to be required to wear a satellite-tracking
bracelet for life.

And if they cut that bracelet off or tamper with it? A mandatory life sentence.
For a third sexual assault conviction? Perhaps life without parole.

With Texas prisons full and state officials scrambling to find ways to safely
get more felons released on community supervision to free up prison bunks, the
proposals might seem a throwback to the get-tough-on-crime era a decade ago that
filled up Texas' prison system. Legislative leaders and even some of Gov. Rick
Perry's aides are rolling their eyes, predicting that the ideas stand little
chance of becoming law.

Perry appointed the advisory council in June to study a variety of possible
improvements to Texas' criminal justice system, including upgrades to forensic
and DNA testing rules and additional legal safeguards to prevent innocent people
from ending up on death row. The council is scheduled to submit recommendations
to Perry by January.

Undaunted by criticism, supporters are pushing ahead. They say that violent
sexual predators are a national issue after the recent high-profile abductions
and killings of children in Florida, Idaho and other states and that Texas
should be examining the risk closer to home.

"If we don't recommend these changes, they certainly won't pass," said Patsy
Day, a member of the state prison system's governing board who is chairwoman of
the council's Sex Offender Solutions committee, which is drafting the proposals.
"The current situation is dismal. . . . A lot of sex offenders are discharging
their sentences from prison without any further supervision at all, even if
they're high risk.

"That's not in the public's best interest."

According to state prison statistics, 189 convicted sex offenders who were
considered of high risk to commit new crimes left Texas prisons between January
and August of this year without any further supervision, compared with 226
during all of last year.

Echoing comments from other committee members, Dianne Clements, president of
Justice for All, a Houston-based victims advocacy group, said those offenders
pose the greatest threat and should be kept under some form of supervision after
they are released from prison. Although the state has little control over most
offenders once they complete their prison sentences, members of the committee
insisted that requiring some to wear electronic bracelets for life would be
legal.

So, too, they suggested, would a new law to make the mandate retroactive -- to
cover offenders who have already been convicted. In the past, retroactive laws
have been repeatedly challenged in court.

Larance Coleman, a top aide to Sen. John Whitmire, a Houston Democrat who heads
the Senate Criminal Justice Committee that oversees prison operations,
questioned who will monitor the expected hundreds of offenders who would be
required to wear the bracelets and how much that monitoring would cost.

"If I've learned anything in this business, it's that we have to factor in the
cost and what agency is going to do it," said Coleman, a former probation
director in Houston.

Among other issues: what effect the tougher laws would have on Texas' full
prison system.

To answer that, the committee making the proposals agreed to recommend that
alternative-to-prison programs should be used more by courts in sentencing
low-risk offenders -- although they took out some specific drug- and
alcohol-related crimes, fearing that might spur unneeded controversy.

That may be inevitable, given the current political and budget climate in Texas,
when the council's final report is sent to Perry. But Day and other committee
members say they are doing just what they were asked: to look at ways to better
track high-risk sex offenders and to protect the public against future crimes.

"If we put them on a GPS (Global Positioning System) bracelet when they leave
TDCJ (the prison system), we'll know exactly where they are," Day said. "The
technology is there. We'd just apply it to increase public safety."

For his part, Perry is taking a wait-and-see attitude.

"Study after study has shown the risks from sexually violent predators, so there
is legitimate concern," said Kathy Walt, Perry's press secretary. "We'll see
what the council recommends and go from there."

mward@statesman.com; 445-1712

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               70 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 9, 2005 Wednesday

As mega-cities swell, Asia paves way for major urban troubles

BYLINE: Craig Simons, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1109 words


CHONGQING, China -- A decade ago, this city of 11 million people in the center
of China was a dirty Yangtze River port suffering from decades of neglect.

Today, visitors are awed by a sprawling downtown complete with a skyscraper
modeled after the Empire State Building and enough fluorescent advertising to
compete with Shanghai's historic Bund as the country's most distinctive skyline.

Such glittering urban icons are marking the robust economic progress of cities
across China and the rest of Asia. But these mega-cities also are beset by
myriad urban ills as a result of the region's booming growth.

Many experts worry that Asian cities are developing in a pell-mell,
car-dependent way that mirrors the growth of American metropolises in the 20th
century, with potentially dire consequences for the environment and the supply
of natural resources.

Asia's urban growth is being driven by the world's largest-ever rural-to-urban
migration as farmers move to cities to seek better-paying jobs or are forced off
their land by new development. According to the World Bank, more than 500
million Asians will move from rural areas to cities by 2020. India will add 175
million new urban residents by 2030 while Indonesia will gain 72 million.

In China, where the urban migration is happening most rapidly, the number of
people living in cities will double during the next two decades. Cities will add
more people "than has happened since the beginning of Chinese history," said
Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, director of the World Bank's urban development and
transportation office.

Nearly 60 percent of China's 1.3 billion people live and work in the
countryside, where the average annual income is $317, about 10 percent of
Beijing's officially reported $2,900. Younger Chinese are able to find factory
jobs churning out products ranging from jeans to motorcycles, and are generally
able to save $50 to $100 a month.

Other rural migrants are being driven off their land as infrastructure projects
and development zones devour cropland. According to China's State Statistics
Bureau, arable land shrank by two percent in 2003, the latest available figures.

To a lesser degree, the same forces are affecting other Asian cities.

Calcutta, a city of 4.6 million people in northeastern India, has nearly doubled
in size over the past decade. To deal with a population that is "growing daily,"
officials are building several large "satellite cities" around the downtown
area, said Mayor Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya.

Bangkok, the capital of Thailand, has grown from 6 million residents in 1995 to
10 million today, despite a central government policy "to spread urban growth
out all around the country," said Pongsak Semson, the city's deputy permanent
secretary.

The United States has nine cities with a population of more than 1 million
people; there are 49 American metropolitan areas, including Austin, with at
least 1 million people, according to the 2000 Census. China has 171 cities with
more than 1 million people, and there are 279 Chinese cities with between
500,000 and 1 million people, according to Chinese government statistics. By
some measures, the region around the Yangtze River delta, with more than 80
million people, is the world's most heavily populated urban zone.

In cities such as Beijing and Shanghai, hundreds of high-rise residential and
office buildings are springing up in dizzying assortments of glass and steel.
Beijing's growth is also being spurred by its preparations to host the 2008
Olympics: Officials are spending more than $20 billion to build and renovate 32
competition venues and a slew of related facilities.

For Americans, one of the most obvious impacts of the building boom has been a
spike in commodity prices.

China was the world's top consumer of concrete and steel last year and is the
world's second-largest consumer of oil, after the United States.

As Asian cities grow, demand for natural resources such as oil will rise, said
William Hudnut, a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute in
Washington, D.C. That will put pressure on consumers: Many experts estimate that
roughly half of the world's supply of oil has already been consumed.

"We're at a crisis point," Hudnut said. "We're going to run out of oil, perhaps
in the next century."

To mitigate the problem of finding alternative energy sources, Hudnut and other
experts urged Asian mayors gathered in Chongqing last month for the fifth Asia
Pacific Cities Summit to adopt energy conservation plans by investing in public
transportation and by creating multiuse neighborhoods in which residents work,
live and shop in one area -- two strategies rarely employed by American
officials during the first half of the 20th century.

Since 1950, as Americans moved to the suburbs, per capita land use in the United
States has increased twice as fast as population growth. "Asia should not make
the mistakes we made in becoming car-dependent," Hudnut said.

But Asian cities seem to be following America's model.

Chinese own 23 million cars, a number that Douglas Webster, a professor of East
Asian urbanization at Arizona State University, said has been "doubling every
five years."

In January, China's Communications Ministry announced that it would spend $250
billion to pave 53,000 miles of intercity highways and urban ring roads within
30 years: China's total highway mileage is expected to overtake the American
interstate system, currently the world's largest, around 2020.

In Calcutta, car ownership has doubled over the past 10 years, and recent
regulation changes that allow Indian banks to finance car loans have generated
"tremendous growth in car purchases," Bhattacharyya said.

Because China produces most of its electricity by burning coal, and because
enforcement of environmental regulations is poor, it is already the world's
second largest producer of greenhouse gases, after the United States, said Gan
Lin, a climate scientist at the World Wildlife Fund's China office.

The smartest strategy for Asian mayors, Webster said, is to avoid becoming like
Atlanta, which he called "the epitome of the car city."

csimons@coxnews.com

(box)

The world's 10 largest cities

Projected by 2015, by population. Figures compiled on each 'urban
agglomeration,' or city and surrounding area.

Rank City Projected population

1. Tokyo 27.2 million

2. Dhaka, Bangladesh 22.8 million

3. Mumbai, India 22.6 million

4. São Paulo, Brazil 21.2 million

5. Delhi, India 20.9 million

6. Mexico City 20.4 million

7. New York 17.9 million

8. Jakarta, Indonesia 17.3 million

9. Calcutta, India 16.7 million

10. Karachi, Pakistan 16.2 million

Source: United Nations

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               72 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday

A history of snags;
Stylist knows firsthandof East 11th renaissance

BYLINE: Renuka Rayasam, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 607 words


Augustine Williams' hair salon has served as an East 11th Street weather vane,
gauging the area's climate for decades.

In 1959, Williams went to one of the state's few beauty schools for African
Americans, on East 11th Street. On Monday mornings, she would get up at 4 a.m.
to drive the 200 miles from San Angelo, where her husband and children lived.
She stayed at the YMCA down the street and would drive back home on Friday
afternoons.

"During that time (East 11th Street) was so pretty," said Williams, who is in
her 80s. "People dressed in pretty clothes and walked down the street."

A few years later, Williams and her family moved to Austin. In the mid-1960s,
she opened her own business, Style-Rite Beauty Salon, on Angelina Street.

She closed it in 1972 to work for the state, then reopened in 1986, at 920 E.
11th St. By then, the area was radically transformed.

"The street was ugly; it was down," Williams said. "Believe me, there was so
many prostitutes you couldn't see."

Now, after a period of stagnation, East 11th Street, like much of East Austin,
is seeing a renaissance. But the transformation has taken almost nine years.

It's been driven by the Austin Revitalization Authority, a city-funded effort to
revive what was once a thriving African American business district along 11th
and 12th streets.

The effort has at times stumbled. It had a hard time finding tenants, then came
under fire for pricing out neighborhood businesses.

The authority learned that most small-business owners couldn't afford to remodel
the old buildings or finish out new spaces, said its president, Byron Marshall.

"We had to do more to finish it to get them in the door," he said.

In February, the authority knocked down Williams' old salon, and she moved to
the ground floor of a new office building that also houses the local offices of
ESPN Radio, Spanish language newspaper Rumbo and advertising firm Door Number 3.

The revitalization authority had to structure the lease for Williams and other
small-business tenants based on projected revenue so they could afford to stay.

"Everything we do is a constant push and pull," Marshall said. "First-time
small-business owners, it takes longer with them. There are more hurdles."

Still, the street's new look has attracted new companies and customers.

"There is an emerging brand that is East Austin, and I like being associated
with that brand," said M.P. Mueller, founder of Door Number 3. "It is kind of
innovative, hip and eclectic."

Next month, Brenda McGowan will open a second location of her Ms. B's Creole
restaurant on East 11th Street.  The original, in Northwest Hills, sees a steady
trade of business customers at lunch and neighborhood regulars for dinner.

"It is touted as a date-type restaurant for African Americans," McGowan said.
"There aren't many places where we can go and be served by people at the front
of the house that look like" us.

Even with the changes on East 11th, McGowan is worried about whether she will
get dinner customers when she opens there.

"We still need to fight misperceptions of what the other side of the interstate
looks like," she said.

rrayasam@statesman.com; 912-2942

(captions)

THE RESTAURATEUR

Brenda McGowan, left, and husband Billy plan a branch of Ms. B's Creole
restaurant on East 11th Street. Brenda McGowan, with architect Abby Lawson,
hopes for the same big dinner crowd she gets at her Northwest Hills location.

THE SALON OWNER

Augustine Williams, combing the hair of longtime customer Carrie Williams (no
relation), has seen about 40 years of East Austin's metamorphosis from her
Style-Rite Beauty Salon that's now on East 11th Street.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               74 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 2, 2005 Friday

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 1265 words


FORT HOOD

(photo caption)

Leaving a fiancee behind

Army Cpl. Charles Goetzinger talks to his fiancee on the phone as other members
of the 4th Infantry Division at Fort Hood wait in line for food Thursday before
deployment to Iraq. The troops will spend a year or more helping secure the
country. The division lost 80 soldiers in its last Iraq deployment.

CENTRAL TEXAS

Little winter rainfall foreseen

A developing La Nina, a stretch of cooler-than-normal water in the eastern
equatorial Pacific Ocean, will make the coming winter a dry one across the Hill
Country and Central Texas, as well as West and North Texas, according to the
federal Climate Prediction Center.

The forecast came this week in the center's revision of its prediction of equal
chances of above, below or near normal precipitation for the winter months.

"This is the first time CPC has caught on to the dry trend which began in late
summer and early fall," Lower Colorado River Authority meteorologist Bob Rose
wrote in his Wednesday weather discussion at lcra.org.

November was the 15th driest on record at Camp Mabry in West Austin and tied for
19th driest at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, according to the National
Weather Service.

Austin rainfall for the year is 9 inches below normal at Camp Mabry and 11
inches below normal at the airport.

Early voting under way

Early voting for area runoff elections is under way.

Tuesday's San Marcos City Council runoff  between Chris Jones and Moe Johnson
will determine the winner of the Place 4 seat.

Today is the last day for early voting; visit www.ci.san-marcos.tx.us for
polling places and times.

Early voting for the Round Rock City Council Place 6 runoff election also has
started for candidates Ted Williamson and Sharon Izzo. Early voting ends Dec.
13; election day is Dec. 17.

For polling places and times, visit www.ci.round-rock.tx.us.

Quick switch to CPR rules urged

Responding to new guidelines for saving lives, two leaders in emergency medicine
are asking doctors, emergency medical technicians and other rescuers to put into
immediate effect three of the many guidelines issued Monday by the American
Heart Association for saving more patients who are in cardiac arrest.

Dr. Pat Crocker, chief of emergency medicine at Brackenridge and Children's
hospitals, and Dr. Ed Racht, medical director of Austin-Travis County Emergency
Medical Services, recommended Wednesday that, as soon as possible, rescuers
begin doing more effective chest compressions without interruptions: give 30
chest compressions for every two breaths rather than 15 compressions for every
two breaths; and a single shock from a defibrillator followed by immediate
cardiopulmonary resuscitation for two minutes, rather than three shocks.

It will take months to make all of the changes the association recommends, but
these three are "relatively easy to implement" and do not require a great deal
of training, Crocker and Racht said.

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

Higginbotham seeks bench again

Judge Don Higginbotham will run for re-election to the County Court at Law No. 3
seat. Higginbotham has held the position since 2000, when the Williamson County
Commissioners Court appointed him. Voters elected him to the seat in 2002. The
County Court at Law judge presides over criminal misdemeanors, some civil
lawsuits and family-law issues.

Higginbotham previously served as a municipal judge and the teen court judge in
Georgetown. His term expires in November 2006.

Hutto teen struck by SUV, killed

A Hutto High School student died Wednesday evening after being hit by a
sport-utility vehicle on U.S. 79 between Round Rock and Hutto.

Jordan Delarosa, 16, was crossing the highway just east of County Road 123
shortly before 7 p.m. when he stopped and attempted to go back to the south side
of the road, said Tom Vinger, a Department of Public Safety spokesman. An
eastbound 2004 GMC Sierra, driven by Veronica Don Juan, 26, of Hutto struck
Delarosa, who was pronounced dead at the scene, Vinger said. No charges have
been filed, Vinger said.

CANYON LAKE

Search for sailor continues

Recovery teams are searching for a San Antonio man who fell off his boat
Wednesday on Canyon Lake and is presumed to have drowned.

Gerard Celitan, 68, was sailing with his wife about noon when he was knocked off
his boat, said Dan Misiaszek, a captain with the San Marcos Area Recovery Team
Divers. The man's wife called emergency officials from her cell phone while
still on the boat.

The two had determined the water was too choppy for sailing that day, Misiaszek
said. But as they turned around, Misiaszek said, a boom broke and knocked
Celitan into the water.

Misiaszek said searchers are using dogs and a sonar to find the body.

KILLEEN

2nd suspect charged in slaying

The Bell County district attorney's office on Thursday charged a Belton man with
murder in the death of Lee Wayne Rash Jr., whose body was burned in an attempt
to cover up the homicide.

Jason Dowling, 25, was served with the warrant Thursday morning. Dowling was
already in the Bell County Jail on theft charges.

Roy Andrew Lewis, 29, of Harker Heights was previously charged in the case. He
also is in the Bell County Jail in lieu of $1 million bail.

BRYAN

Student charged in feces incident

A member of the Texas A&M University Parsons Mounted Cavalry accused of throwing
horse manure at University of Texas band members before their annual football
game has been charged with criminal mischief.

A lieutenant from the A&M university police said he saw John Richmond Sullivan,
20, throw a shovel full of horse feces at the Texas band members at Kyle Field
before the annual game Nov. 25.

AUSTIN

Union leader to run for council

Mike Martinez, president of the Austin firefighters union, plans to run for the
City Council seat being vacated by Raul Alvarez.

Since 2003, Martinez has led the Austin Association of Professional Firefighters
through an election drive to win collective bargaining rights and lengthy
contract negotiations that ended Thursday with council approval of a three-year
contract. A resident of the Holly neighborhood in East Austin, Martinez has
lived in Austin for 17 years and served in the Fire Department for 13 years. He
said his campaign would also focus on affordability, economic development,
public safety and environmental protection.

Former state Sen. Hector Uribe and Eliza May, president of the Greater Austin
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, also have said they plan to run for the seat.

Widow's son convicted in killing

A Travis County jury on Thursday convicted an Austin man of murdering his
mother's husband in Southeast Austin. Later in the day, state District Judge Bob
Perkins sentenced Benito Carrillo to 50 years in prison.

Carrillo, 30, must serve 25 years before he is eligible for parole. Perkins said
that Carrillo had been convicted of assault on a peace officer and aggravated
assault.

In January, Carrillo stabbed Martin Garcia, 40, at a trailer home on Hoeke Lane,
near where Riverside Drive meets Ben White Boulevard, Perkins said. Carrillo
lived at the trailer home with his mom and her husband, with whom he had fought
before, Perkins said.

Cleanup for Shoal Creek dog area

The Austin Parks Foundation will lead community volunteers as they repair and
beautify an off-leash dog area along the Shoal Creek trail from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Saturday. Volunteers will work on the trail just north of the 24th Street
bridge.

Parking is available in the lot at Lamar and Shoal Creek boulevards between 24th
and 29th streets.

Visit www.austinparks.org to volunteer or for more information.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               76 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 28, 2005 Friday

Ready, set, pop!;
Come on, we know you want to. And what better reason than Bubble Wrap
Appreciation Day?

BYLINE: Patrick Beach, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1108 words


With the fifth annual National Bubble Wrap Appreciation Day looming Monday, this
fractious populace of this great divided nation is consumed with a single
thought:

What is it about Bubble Wrap -- which is a registered trademark of the Sealed
Air Corp., which registers a great many things as trademarks -- that makes it
the gold standard in puffy packaging material?

Answer: You're soaking in it. I mean, it's the co-extruded barrier. Duh.

Verily, only Bubble Wrap brand has the Sealed Air Barrier, which causes it to
kick massive amounts of patootie when compared with the leading nonbarrier
brand. According to Sealed Air propaganda:

"All air cellular packaging material is made from polyethylene. However,
polyethylene alone does not provide good air retention over time or under a
weight load. That's why we use a co-extruded barrier that is 100 times more
resistant to the passage of air than even a thick single layer of polyethylene."

In other words, bubble wrap other than Bubble Wrap loses its poof more slowly.
This also explains why Bubble Wrap is much more satisfying to pop than cheapo
air cellular packaging material. More:

"For cushioning, surface protection, void fill or specialty applications, Sealed
Air's line of air cellular packaging materials are the Best Wrap Around."

(Now you're thinking, Who gets paid to write this stuff? And I'm thinking, Gee,
am I glad I don't do corporate copywriting or -- with apologies to my close
personal friends in the trade -- practice the indefensible and soul-crushing
craft of public relations and corporate communications.)

Of course, it came about by accident. Two engineers, Al Fielding and Marc
Chavannes, were working on textured wallpaper when they saw another opportunity
about four decades ago. The public at first failed to apprehend the inventors'
genius, but the two men didn't let the setback -- ha! -- burst their bubble.

Fielding and Chavannes realized the stuff could be used to cushion fragile
objects in packaging. This was back in the horse-and-buggy days when wadded-up
paper was the packaging norm. Again, according to corporate propaganda:

"They founded Sealed Air Corporation in 1960, and today, Sealed Air (motto: "We
trademark anything that moves") is a leading global manufacturer of a wide range
of food and protective packaging materials and systems with annual revenues
exceeding 3.5 billion dollars."

So ingenious is Bubble Wrap that it was featured in the Museum of Modern Art's
"Humble Masterpieces" exhibit last year, which celebrated ingenuity in design.

But the stuff's got currency in America and around the world not so much because
it's good for keeping the Waterford from getting smashed on the moving truck.
It's because people scratch some sort of primal, lizard-brain itch by popping
the stuff. Evolved as we humans may be, we still find senseless destruction
deeply satisfying.

"I'm not a psychologist, but there's a satisfying sound and the tactile
sensation of the thing exploding between your fingers," said Tim Nyberg,
co-author of "The Bubble Wrap Book," published by HarperPerennial a few years
back and now tragically out of print.

"I know a lot more about duct tape, which is nothing to be proud of, either,"
Nyberg said. This is quite true. Nyberg is at work on his seventh book about
duct tape. Not surprisingly, when asked the the most surprising thing he learned
about Bubble Wrap was, he says, "That you can make a living out of writing a
book about it."

Woe to whomever refers to Bubble Wrap generically. Sealed Air -- which  says it
has operations in 51 countries, putting its products within the reach of 80
percent of the world's population -- also has a roster of lawyers to protect the
company's signature product.

So go ahead and pop all you want Monday. But remember -- it's all about the
co-extruded barrier. That, and remembering the R.

pbeach@statesman.com; 445-3603

(box)

Bubble Wrap facts

* Inventors Al Fielding and Marc Chavannes were inducted into the New Jersey
Inventors Hall of Fame in 1993, in the esteemed company of the inventors of
Turfgrass and the inventor of the edible ice cream cone.

* Although Sealed Air doesn't disclose how much Bubble Wrap it makes each year,
it's sufficient to stretch from the Earth to the moon.

* Bubble Wrap comes in a range of colors and bubble sizes.

(box)

Where to pop . . .

If you really, really, absolutely have nothing better to do, go to
www.viceking.net/bubblewrap.swf and pop some virtual bubbles.

Or, you might prefer the company's own popping game. Go to
www.bubblewrap.com/products/protective/bubble/funstuff/game/default.htm.

WARNING: if you're at work and on good terms with your co-workers, you might
want to turn down the volume on your computer before playing.

(box)

'Practical and fun uses for

Bubble Wrap    Cushioning'

(corporate propaganda presented

verbatim):

Add a little comfort to a long plane ride with a pillow made with Bubble Wrap
cushioning and DUCK brand duct tape.

Use as a temporary air cast to support a sprained ankle or wrist. (Make sure to
see your doctor as soon as possible!)

Make a kite using Bubble Wrap, DUCK brand duct tape, balsa wood and string. The
Bubble Wrap's cushioning feature will come in handy when the kite falls out of
the sky and hits the ground.

Line boots or use as a shoe protector when it's cold or wet outside.  It will
keep your feet warm AND dry.

Protect kids' textbooks and notebooks with an original cover made of Bubble
Wrap. When it's time to turn them back in, they'll be just like new!

Tired of fumbling around with tissue paper or wrapping paper? Use Bubble Wrap to
wrap presents or as the 'filling' in a gift bag. With enough layers, the
recipient will never be able to tell what's under the wrapping.

Design an out-of-the ordinary pencil case or makeup bag or purse using Bubble
Wrap and DUCK brand duct tape.

Placing the bubble-side down, make coasters or placemats using Bubble Wrap.

Computer jockey? Protect wrists when typing by folding or rolling a sheet of
Bubble Wrap to use as a keyboard cushion.

Need a shower curtain? Make an interesting and functional shower curtain by
taping sheets of Bubble Wrap together.

Keep car floors clean and mud-free by laying Bubble Wrap down as a car mat.

Want to keep your drink cold?  Simply wrap a little Bubble Wrap and DUCK brand
duct tape around the cup or can for a makeshift koozie!

Going to the big game? Bring along some Bubble Wrap for a comfortable (and
cheap!) seat cushion.

Add texture and style to painted walls by faux painting with Bubble Wrap. But
remember -- it's all about the co-extruded barrier. Not all cellular packaging
material is the same.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUBBLE YOUR BOTTOM: Give yourself the gift of comfort during a Longhorn
game with a Bubble Wrap seat cushion.
OH, MY ARM: Think you've broken something? Let the injured appendage float on
air with a custom-made sling.
KEYED IN TO COMFORT: Your wrists will thank you when you soften their load with
a Bubble Wrap keyboard cushion.
THIS ONE'S A SHOE IN: On rainy days, bubble your boots to keep Mother Nature
away.
BEER'S BUBBLE BUDDY: Give your cold can a comfortable koozie.
A TEXTBOOK EXAMPLE: Protect books with fun and function. Class too boring? Start
popping.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               77 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 3, 2005 Thursday

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 4017 words


In Loving Memory of

Wanda J. Laws

Wanda J. Laws who departed this life one year ago on Feb. 3, 2004.

She was preceded in death by her daughter, Melinda Jo and her son, Stacey Lee.
She is survived by her husband, Seybert Laws and her children, Sharon, Nickey,
Cheryl Ann, Carl, Terry, Wendell, Trina, Russell, and Tammy. There are numerous
grandchildren and several great grandchildren.

We all miss her dearly!

In Loving Memory of

Solomon  C. Jordan

July 13, 1946 - Feb. 3, 2003

Daddy - May your soul rest in eternal peace.

Hugs and Kisses,

Angie and DAmbra Neblett

Mary Josephine Stearle

A loving mother and grandmother, Mary Josephine Stearle was born on February 4,
1926, to Joseph and Mary Csako in Carrollville, Wisconsin (near Milwaukee) and
died on January 31, 2005, in Austin, Texas.

She was preceded in death by her husband Major Gerald Francis Stearle (April 25,
1931-April 15, 1998).

Survivors include her son, John Michael Stearle; daughter Mary Frances Pinckley
and her husband Danny Pinckley, and their children Jennifer Lynn Pinckley and
David Allen Pinckley.

Mary's family migrated from Hungary to Wisconsin where she was born, then
commuted back to Hungary around 1933. Mary returned to America in 1947, and wed
Gerald on January 16, 1952. As a military wife, the Stearle family lived in six
states - including Austin, Texas in 1969/1970, as well as Germany, and retired
in Austin in 1978.

Mary loved children, flowers, travel, and handy work, especially quilting. She
had been a member of the Austin Area Quilt Guild for more than 25 years and won
ribbons for her handy work in both the California and Texas state fairs. Besides
her network of quilters and neighbors, she will be missed by friends who shared
their love of Hungarian heritage.

The family will receive friends from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m., on Thursday, February 3,
2005, at Weed-Corley- Fish Funeral Home.

A Funeral Mass will be held at 10:00 a.m., on Friday, February 4, 2005, at St.
Mary's Cathedral, 203 E. 10th Street. Interment will be held at 1:15 p.m., on
Friday, February 4, 2005 at Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery in San Antonio,
Texas.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the American Cancer
Society, P.O. Box 149100, Austin, Texas 78714.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

William Coyle, Jr.

Our beloved father William Coyle, Jr. age 86, of Austin, passed away Friday,
January 28, 2005. He was born in San Antonio on February 6, 1918.  As a child he
grew up in Detroit, Mich., and later lived in Austin, Tex.,  as a young man.

He served proudly in the Navy on the battleship USS Auckland in the South
Pacific until his honorable discharge at the end of World War II.  He is
preceded in death by his loving wife, Francisca Nino Coyle.  William bore four
loving daughters from his marriages to San Juanita Monreal Lung and Belen
Talamantes Coyle, who preceded him in death. Those left to cherish his memory
are daughters Linda Peterson of Leander, Tex., Maria Hiner of Southfield, Mich.,
Frances Coyle of Austin, Tex., Nadine Sustita of Cedar Creek, and stepdaughter,
Juanita Salinas and husband Rudy Salinas of Ceres, Calif., a brother, Richard
Garcia of Detroit, Mich., 22 grandchildren; 28 great-grandchildren and many
nieces and nephews.

Our father was a fun gregarious man who always enjoyed amusing his
grand-children and great-grandchildren with magical tricks. He lived a long and
colorful life, traveling across the United States and told stories of his
adventures as a young man.  After the death of his wife, Francisca Coyle, he
moved from California to Austin, Texas. He will always be remembered as an
incredibly intelligent man who enjoyed life and all the adventures life had to
offer.

Graveside services will be at 10:30 a.m., on Friday, February 4, 2005, in San
Antonio, Texas at Fort Sam Houston's National Veterans Cemetery. The family
wishes to thank the staff at the Veterans Hospital in Temple, Texas for their
loving care.

Richard Lewis Kennedy

Richard Lewis Kennedy, a native born resident of Austin, Texas, died on Sunday,
January 30, 2005. Rick's memorial service will be held at Cook-Walden/Forest
Oaks Funeral Home on Friday, February 4, 2005, at 2:00 p.m. A wake will be held
immediately following the service at his home.

Rick was born at Seton Hospital on April 23, 1951. After graduating high school,
he attended the University of Texas until he found his true calling as an
offshore driller. He was employed for 24 years as a senior tool pusher for
Global Santa Fe until his retirement last year. Rick was an avid outdoorsman who
loved hunting, camping and boating. Rick loved to ride around on his Harley with
his beloved wife, Kayanne.

Rick is survived by his wife, Kayanne Shannon Kennedy and daughter, Erin (Sugar
Plum) Christine Kennedy, a Radiation Therapy Student at Texas Sate. Other family
members include Joshua Turner, DeCabrio Turner and Homer (the dog). Surviving
members of his family include his mother, Ursula M. Kennedy and his siblings;
Dr. Ursula Bedrossian and family, Zita Kennedy, Michael Kennedy and family,
Shannon Stepanek and family, and Colleen Hurd and family. His in-laws include
Tom and Beverly Shannon and their children, Karilyn Natho and family, Kyle
Shannon and family, and Kelley Shannon and family. Rick would like to be
remembered on his boat in Lake Travis where his ashes will be scattered at a
later date.

In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the ALS Foundation for Lou Gehrig's
Disease.

Pat Riley Johnson

Pat Riley Johnson, 73, of Del Valle, Texas, passed away on Tuesday, February 1,
2005. He was born on February 17, 1931, in Arkadelphia, Arkansas, to Jesse and
Luevica Johnson.  He was the owner and operator of Pat Johnson Ditching for 25
years.  He loved to hunt and visit with all his friends. He will be missed by
his family and friends.

He was  preceded in death by his parents and son Rickey Johnson.

He is survived by his beloved wife of 54 years, Betty Jo Johnson; sons, David
Johnson and wife Elaine of Dale, and Donnie Johnson; daughter, Patricia Knox and
husband Jerry of Austin; grandchildren, Heather Adams, David Paul Johnson,
Nicole Knox-Bimler, Jessica Ploman, Donnie Pat Johnson, Lisa Wylie, Nicholas
Johnson and Stephanie Johnson; great-grandchildren, Kathlyn, Dylan, Cameron and
Orion; sisters, Mary Lou Clawson and Bertha Clark of Nash, Texas; and many
nieces and nephews in different parts of the country.

I'm Free

Don't grieve for me.  For now I'm free to follow the path God made for me.

I took his hand when I Heard Him call. I turned my back and left it all.

I could not stay another day to love, to laugh, to work, to play.

Task left undone must stay that way. For I found peace at least, that day.

If my parting has left a void, then fill it with remembering joy.

A friendship shared, a laugh, a kiss, oh yes these things I too will miss.

Be not burdened with hearts of sorrow. My wish for you is the hope of tomorrow.

My life's been full, I've savored much, good friends, good times, a loved one's
touch.

Perhaps my time seemed much too brief. Don't lighten it now with undue grief.

Visitation will be held from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., Thursday, February 3, 2005,
at Wilke-Clay-Fish Funeral Home.

Funeral service will be held at 11:00 a.m., Friday, February 4, 2005, at
Wilke-Clay-Fish Chapel with Reverend David Melber officiating.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Michael R. Udick

Michael R. Udick, age 37, of Austin, Texas, passed away peacefully on Tuesday,
February 1, 2005, in Houston, Texas. He was the son of Frank (Skip) P. Udick and
Georgiana Marchinke Udick who currently reside in Inverness, Florida.

Michael grew up in Houston and graduated from Sharpstown High School. He later
graduated from the University of Texas in Austin where he was a member of Pi
Kappa Phi Fraternity. Michael loved hunting, fishing, music and enjoying great
times with his friends.

He was preceded in death by an older brother, Donald J. Udick, in 2001 and by
his maternal and paternal grandparents.

Survivors include parents: Frank P., Jr. and Georgiana Udick, Inverness,
Florida; brothers and sisters-in-law: William and Kim Udick, Alvin, Texas,
Thomas and Debi Udick, Perryton, Texas, Stephen and Sharon Udick, Oil City,
Pennsylvania; uncles: Randy Marchinke, Oil City, Pennsylvania, Roger Marchinke,
West Palm Beach, Florida.

He also leaves behind four nieces and six nephews, as well as many good friends
in the Houston-Austin area.

Visitation will be from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Friday, February 4, 2005, at
Scott Funeral Home Chapel.  Services will be held at 7:00 p.m. Friday, February
4, 2005, at Scott Funeral Home Chapel, 1421 East Hwy. 6, Alvin, Texas, 77511.
(281) 585-1000

In lieu of flowers, please send donations in memory of Michael Udick to the
American Cancer Society,   P.O. Box 129, Texas City, Texas 77592-0129

Grover C. Keeton

Brig. General (BVT) Grover C.    Keeton retired from Texas Army  National Guard,
Camp Mabry,   passed away Thursday, January 27, 2005. Grover was fortunate to
live 88 years, having served with the Tank Destroyers in North Africa, then
the 124th Horse Cav. Regt.                 (a detached Reg.)  in Italy.  Grover
attended Virginia Military Institute and the University of Texas where he
studied Torts under his cousin the late Page Keeton. Grover was a loyal Longhorn
Fan. In fact his last correspondence was the  Statesman Rose Bowl commemorative
section sent to him from his son Trooper.

Grover, his wife Mamie and Trooper lived in Austin and Lakeway from 1968 to
1975.

Funeral will be Thursday, February 3, 2005, Fort Sam   Houston.  Those planning
to attend are to report to the North gate off Rittimaund Roa, at 1:00 p.m.

Grover, until the end would always ask about his beloved Father McCabe of Emmaus
Catholic Church.

Pearl Leona Jackson

Pearl Leona Jackson of Georgetown, went home on January 31, 2005, at the age of
94.

She was born in Malakoff, Tex., to the late Ernest and Laura Ferguson.  She
lived in the Austin area since 1945 and worked for 40 years for Jack Brown
Cleaners. Pearl was a good mother, grandmother, and seamstress. She was a
fabulous cook and also loved to travel with family.

She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband of 55 years, Albert Nelson
Jackson; brother, Walter Ferguson; and sister, Jewel Hollon.

Those surviving her include her son, Kenneth Ray Jackson and wife, Nancy;
granddaughter, Cynthia Kay Jackson; grandsons, Brian K. Jackson and wife,
Demeree, Brad K. Jackson and wife, Lindy; great-grandson, Curtis Jackson;
great-granddaughter, Elizabeth McFarling. Many nieces, nephews and friends also
survive her.

The family would like to extend their heartfelt thanks to Dr. Shirley Gault, the
staff of Weslyan Nursing Home and the nursing staff on the second floor at
Georgetown Hospital for their loving care and support.

The family will receive friends from 6:00-8:00 p.m., Thursday, February 3, 2005,
at Cook-Walden/ Capital Parks Funeral Home in Pflugerville, Tex. Funeral service
will be held at 10:00 a.m., Friday, February 4, 2005, in the Memorial Chapel of
Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Funeral Home with Pastor Paul Kersten officiating.
Burial to follow in Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Cemetery.

For those desiring, the family suggests memorial donations be made to any church
or charity of choice.

Please join us in honoring Pearl by visiting her memorial at www.mem.com.
Through this site we invite you to share your thoughts and fond memories with
our family.

Clara Bertha Person

Clara Bertha Person, age 86, of Austin passed away February 1, 2005. She was
born September 11, 1918, to Frank and Mae Lee in Lampasas County, Texas, near
Adamsville.

She was preceded in death by her parents, two sisters, Elsie Lee and Jewel Lee,
a brother, Frank Lee Jr., and by her beloved husband, S.T. Person.

She is survived by, her son Esteen Person and his wife Sharon of Huntsville, her
daughter Sharon Phillips and husband Luther of Austin and a granddaughter Tracy
Rape and husband Chuck and grandson Chad of Louisiana. She is also survived by
an aunt, a nephew, several nieces and cousins, and by the many friends whose
lives she touched.

Bertha grew up in the Adamsville area in Lampasas County and lived there as a
young adult. The values and spirit of her family, relatives and neighbors in the
country formed her character and sustained her when she and her husband and two
young children moved to Austin in 1957. She worked over 20 years at the Austin
State School, volunteered at The Old Bakery and was a lifelong practicing
Christian active in the First Presbyterian Church on Mesa Drive. Bertha was by
any measure a most remarkable woman. Her life, her essence is described by the
following verse:

That woman is a success... who loves life and lives it to the fullest; who has
discovered and shared the strengths and talents that are uniquely her own; who
puts her best into each task and leaves the situation better than she found it;
who seeks and finds that which is beautiful in all people... and all things;
whose heart is full of love and warm with compassion; who has found joy in
living and peace within herself.

Her fundamental nature was so extraordinarily gracious and pleasant that others
always sought her company. She was forever upbeat and readily greeted everyone
with a smile, welcoming words, and a demeanor of sincere warmth and grace. When
in her company, your wellbeing was her only matter. She honored the life she was
given by the way she lived. She was proud of her name and the way she left it on
earth ... rightfully so. She will be deeply missed.

Bertha and her family, very much appreciated the care and help given by Dr. Mary
Maxwell and her staff and nurse associate, the staff of Westminster Manor Health
Care Center and AseraCare Hospice.

In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the First Presbyterian
Church, 8001 Mesa Dr., Austin, TX 78705 or the Westminster Manor Friendship
Fund, 4100 Jackson St., Austin, TX  78731

Visitation will be at Weed- Corley-Fish Funeral Home, 3125 N. Lamar Blvd. from
6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., on Thursday February 3, 2005. Graveside services and
burial will be at the Pilgrim's Rest Cemetery on U.S. Highway 281 north of
Adamsville in Lampasas County at 2:00 p.m., Friday, February 4, 2005 with Rev.
Nancy Marroquin officiating.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Samuel A. (Sam) Sprouse

Samuel A. (Sam) Sprouse, 79, died Monday, January 31, 2005, at the Medical
Center Hospital in Bowling Green, Kentucky. The Bluff Springs, Texas, native was
a retired employee of JOY Manufacturing in Houston and a member of the
International Association of Machinists. He was the son of the late John and
Julia Wood Sprouse.

He was preceded in death by four brothers, David, Dellman, John, and Melvin
Sprouse; and three sisters, Mary Elizabeth Sprouse, Gladys Berry, and Julia
Sprouse.

Survivors include two sons, Alvy Sprouse and his wife, Svetlana of Anchorage,
Alaska, and Tom Sprouse and his wife, Charla of Smiths Grove, Kentucky; two
grandchildren, Jennifer Oberhausen and Kenneth Sprouse; two great-grandsons,
Mitchell and Logan Oberhausen; his former wife, Reatha Howard Sprouse; one
brother, Clifford Sprouse; one sister, Katie Mayhew; several nieces and nephews.

Graveside services will be held at 2:00 p.m. Saturday, February 5, 2005, at
Driftwood Cemetery in Driftwood, Texas.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Robert William Gray

Oh! I have slipped the surly bonds of earth...And, while with silent lifting
mind Ive trod the high untrespassed sanctiry of space, put out my hand and
touched the face of God.                   From the poem, "High Flight," by
Pilot Officer John G. Magee, Jr., RCAF, December 1941.

On January 29, 2005, Robert William Gray, 86, departed on his final flight with
grace, courage, and dignity after a brief illness.

Dad was born on December 24, 1918, in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the son of wildcatter and
oil pioneer Roland B. Gray, and his wife, Florence Brumberg Gray. His boyhood
years were spent in Marlin, Texas, Chicago, and Houston, where he graduated from
San Jacinto High School in 1936. He attended courses at the South Texas College
of Law while he worked as the night manager at the old Delman Theater near
downtown Houston. Bob later enlisted in the U.S. Air Force, where he attained
the rank of Captain. He served his country proudly as a skilled navigator,
bombardier, and teacher to his comrades who courageously prowled the skies of
World War II. On November 26, 1944, Bob married the former Bonnie Ruth Schramm
in Houston, forging a union that spanned more than 60 years.

Following the end of World War II, Bob and Bonnie moved to Tyler, Texas, in
1948, where he began a distinguished career as an oil scout and petroleum
landman with The Superior Oil Company. Several years later, with young toddler
Gregory in tow, the family relocated to Abilene, Texas, where Bob continued work
as the companys district landman and served as president of the Abilene
Petroleum Landmens Association.

In 1958, the family along with their newest addition, Stephen, transferred to
Houston, where they resided for more than 45 years. Bob became active in the Boy
Scouts of America, serving as an assistant Scoutmaster for two years. He was an
avid fisherman, and he treated the family to many memorable summer vacations in
Rockport, Texas. Bob also loved photography and took great pride and care in
preserving many family events on film.

In 1979, Bob retired after more than 39 years with The Superior Oil Company. He
and Bonnie moved to the quiet little town of Palacios, where they enjoyed the
good life on a bluff overlooking Carancahua Bay. They returned to Houston
permanently in 1990.

Bob is survived by his widow, Bonnie, and sons Gregory and Stephen of Houston;
twin sisters, Nellie Gray Ritter and Phyllis Gray Grisham of Austin, Texas;
sister- in-law Joy Schramm Thomas of Houston as wel as several nieces and
nephews. There will be no memorial service.

In lieu of usual remembrances, donations may be made to Houston chapter of the
SPCA of S.N.A.P. (Spay-Neuter Assistance Program).

The family would like to express special thanks to Viola Jones, and to extend
their deepest appreciation to Bobs physicians and the staffs of Memorial Hermann
Hospital Southwest and University Place Nursing Center for their assistance and
compassion during his recent convalescence.

Edgar Kendrick Browning Jr.

E.K. Browning Jr., 92, of Austin passed away Tuesday, February 1, 2005. E.K. was
born July 29, 1912, in Hillsboro, Texas, to Edgar Kendrick Browning Sr. and
Flora Turk Browning.

E.K. graduated from Hillsboro High School and attended Hillsboro Junior College
and the University of Texas at Austin, where he studied Pre-Med. He was selected
to the first ever Texas Highway Patrol Recruit Training School instituted by the
State of Texas in 1935,  graduating in February, 1936. His first assignment was
as a motorcycle patrolman in Wichita Falls, as there were no cars in the Highway
Patrol at that time and it was not until 1939 that patrol cars were purchased.

He was stationed in Vernon and Waco, before making Sargeant in four years in San
Angelo. He was promoted to Captain two years later, serving in Fort Worth,
Corpus Christi, and Austin. While Captain in the Austin district, he also had
responsibility for security of all state offices, the Capitol, the Governor's
personal security, the Governor's Mansion, the University of Texas, and State
and National Dignitaries.  One of his most memorable assignments was as state
security force for Lyndon B. Johnson and his ranch in Johnson City while he was
Senator, Vice-President, and President.

He was promoted to Major and was Regional Commander of the West Texas region 4
in Midland. As dictated by state law, he retired on July 31, 1977, at the age of
65. He became the first 40 year member of the Texas Department of Public Safety
to retire.

After retirement, E.K. entered into Real Estate as an Appraiser, and with his
wife Ernestine, were partners in Browning Real Estate in Midland.  At age 82, he
also served as Constable, Precinct 4 in Midland. After fully retiring, he was an
active volunteer at Midland's AMOS Food Bank and the Permian Basin Petroleum
Museum.

E.K. was most recently a member of the Midland Rotary Club, Texas Police
Association, St. Luke's Methodist Church in Midland, West Texas Eastern New
Mexico Police Association, and Board of Directors Midland Council on Alcoholism.

E. K. was preceded in death by his parents, a sister, Emma Dell Porachan, his
wife, Christine Parker Browning and his wife, Ernestine Stanfield Browning.

He is survived by his daughter and son-in-law, Suzie and George Scheer of
Austin, his son and daughter- in-law, Jack and Denise Eidson of Houston, his
daughter and son- in-law, Judy and Ken Nolte of Austin; four grandchildren, Ken
Scheer of Austin, Christy Eidson of Colorado Springs, Colorado,  Andrew Eidson
of Houston, and Jenny Campbell and her husband Wylie of Austin; and two
great-grandchildren, Sandra Scheer of Austin and Kaylee Campbell of Austin.

The family will receive friends       at Weed-Corley-Fish, 3125 North Lamar,
Austin, Texas from 5:00 to  7:00 p.m., Friday, February, 4, 2005.

Funeral services will be at Weed- Corley-Fish at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, February
5, 2005, with burial at  Cook-Walden/Capitol Park in Pflugerville, officiated by
Reverend Richard Edwards, St. Luke's Methodist Church, Midland.

Memorial contributions may be made to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer
Foundation.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Ruby Nell Turner Bowen

Feb. 3, 1942 - Jan. 22, 2003

Mom, there is not a day that passes that eases the loss but we know that you are
free and at peace. Please keep your angelic watch as we will forever need your
guidance. We miss your sweet smiles and forgiving hugs.

With all our love, The Brood.

Mary Ruth Vaught

Mary Ruth Vaught passed away on Tuesday, February 1, 2005, at the age of 84.

Mary Ruth was born in Fort Bend County on March 16, 1920, to George and Mary
Huntington, both of whom predeceased her. Mary Ruth attended the University of
Texas, graduating in 1941. Upon graduating, she was selected as an outstanding
student, both in journalism and on the campus. In October 1941, she married Lt.
Gordon Edward Vaught. After World War II, she and Edward lived in Baytown, Texas
until she relocated several years ago to Austin. Mary Ruth was a homemaker and
was very involved in the local Methodist church in Baytown and in church
activities as well as a life long interest in genealogy.

Mary Ruth is preceded in death by her husband and her daughter, Susan Shirley.

Mary Ruth is survived by her sister, Dorothy McCormick, her brother, George
Huntington, and his wife, Evelyn Huntington.  She is also survived by her son,
George Mason Vaught, daughter-in-law Liliane Vaught and their children,
Jeannette Vaught and Steven Bercik; her son, Jimmy Vaught, daughter-in-law Tracy
Vaught and their daughters, Katie Vaught and Libby Vaught; her son-in-law, Steve
Shirley and her grandchildren, Amber Shirley and Craig Shirley; and her son,
Gordon  Edward Vaught, Jr. Mary Ruth is also survived by numerous nieces and
nephews.

The family will receive visitors at the home of Jimmy and Tracy Vaught, 4707
Chiappero Trail, Austin, from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m., Friday evening, February 4,
2005.

Services will be held at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, February 5, 2005, at Northwest
Hills United Methodist Church, 7050 Village Center Drive, Austin. Internment
will follow at 3:00 p.m., at the Davis-Greenlawn Cemetery in Rosenberg, Texas. A
reception for family and friends will follow the internment at the home of Mary
Claire Huntington in Rosenberg, Texas.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to the building
fund at Northwest Hills United Methodist Church, Austin, Texas or to the
memorial fund at St. Paul's United Methodist Church, 7915 Bayway Drive, Baytown,
Texas.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               82 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 29, 2005 Thursday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1181 words


AUSTIN CITY LIMITS MUSIC FESTIVAL

Too hot to enjoy festival

For the second year in a row, I am so disappointed by the Austin City Limits
Music Festival. I realize no one can control the weather, but I won't be buying
three-day passes ever again. My family won't even consider coming from out of
state, even though I tell them, "It's not supposed to be very hot this year."

Also, who does the planning that ACL ends up the same weekend as the Pecan
Street Festival?

I am new to Austin and love it very much, but planning for a cross-musical,
cross-generational festival should be better than this. In other words, some of
us are old and can't take the heat, but we have a lot of money to spend.

I adored seeing John Prine, but I was so wiped out by the end of Friday that
Saturday was a bust. I had my heart set on seeing Coldplay on Sunday, but I
didn't even think about actually doing it.

ROSE HALEY

Austin

Just not comfortable

Although the extremely high-caliber talent has encouraged me to make the trip to
the Austin City Limits Music Festival for the past three years, I'm not likely
to return unless the organizers make changes to significantly improve the
comfort of attendees.

Specifically, they need to reschedule the event to a date when cooler
temperatures are likely to prevail, such as late October. They also must better
accommodate those who reasonably expect to sit close in with clear sight lines
to the stages, but are continually frustrated by those who stand in front of us
and block our view.

None of the other four to five outdoor festivals I attend each year are this
inconsiderate of their patrons' comfort.

MICHAEL HALL

Lewisville

Corporate coffee

Shame on the organizers of the Austin City Limits Music Festival for using
Starbucks as the coffee vendor. If they continue this trend, they need to change
the name of the event to Any City Limits Music Festival.

DIANE MORRISETT

Austin

A selfish evacuee's letter

Rarely have I read anything so self-serving as the Sept. 23 letter, "Festivals
squeeze out vulnerable evacuees."

I wonder how her letter would have read had she been one of the thousands who
bought non-refundable airline tickets, festival tickets, etc., and arrived to
find festivities canceled and no rooms in the inns.

Austin has welcomed evacuees and opened its schools, churches and private homes
for them at an inconvenience to many local residents. School has been canceled
with no prior notice, causing parents to have to miss work to care for their
children during evacuee occupation.

And the upheavals could continue: Hurricane season doesn't end until Nov. 30,
and many of the worst storms in recorded history occurred in October.

To expect the entire state of Texas to cancel life is indeed "inconsideration
and thoughtlessness."

J.L. WOODS

Austin

The fruits of the GOP

The devastation of New Orleans and the Houston evacuation debacle are
unanswerable indictments of the theory of government that has prevailed in this
country since the election of President Reagan in 1980.

These are the fruits of slashing spending on domestic infrastructure and social
support while cutting taxes for the affluent and allocating resources to foreign
adventurism.

These are the fruits of denying global warming in the interest of preserving
corporate energy profits. The tragicomedy of incompetent urban evacuations is
the fruit of rejecting public transit initiatives as too costly.

The dead and the destitute are the fruits of waiting for greed to let crumbs
trickle down. We have dismissed every effort at social responsibility as
"politically correct," and we are now witnessing the harvest. Welcome to the
world you have made, my fellow Americans. Perhaps a bit of flag-waving will
improve the harvest's taste.

ROB LEWIS

Austin

Insurance is the answer

This might sound horrible to a lot of folks, but I do not feel that the American
taxpayer should continue to foot the bill for those who continue to rebuild in
hurricane-prone areas. There is a solution to the problem for the taxpayer:
insurance.

JAMES N. ANAGNOS

Austin

Austinites' open arms

I just wanted to let everyone in Austin know how much we appreciated their
hospitality last weekend.

My husband and I have always said that people in Austin were friendly, but this
definitely proved that.

We left Houston because of the hurricane at 7 a.m. The traffic was horrendous,
and the weather was unbearable. When we finally arrived in Austin about 7 p.m.,
we were exhausted.

The next day we went walking around, waiting to hear what kind of damage we
would expect. With all of our belongings in the car, people knew why we were
there.

Everyone we encountered was extremely friendly and helpful. They asked if we
needed anything; thankfully, we had prepared for a time like this. But I really
wanted to let everyone in Austin know that I really appreciate their warm
hospitality and smiling faces. It was comforting knowing that total strangers
were willing to help.

ERIKA LUNA

Houston

Why we stay at home

Karen Stabiner is misguided (Sept. 24 column, "What Yale women want, and why it
is misguided").

Since when are stay-at-home moms "in it for me," as she claims? I've been a
stay-at-home mom (with a college degree, by the way) for nearly 15 years, and
never once have I been in it for me. I put my own career and desires on hold to
raise my children rather than forfeit that right and responsibility to a
stranger in a child-care center.

And it didn't come with the Tiffany box she describes, either. For seven years
before we had children, my husband and I banked my paycheck so we could afford
for me to stay home with our children. I depend on him as much as he depends on
me. We live within our means, and we established those means early with a home
and lifestyle we could afford on one income.

Rather than "betraying a startling combination of naivete and privilege," as she
describes today's Ivy Leaguers, I'd say they display a tremendous amount of
character and sacrifice, qualities that will form firm foundations for their
marriages and child-rearing.

CINDY SMITH

Austin

Tax cuts increase revenue

In Monday's op-ed column extolling the virtues of taxes, James Farmer claimed
that Bill Clinton created a surplus by raising taxes ("Free-market theology
ignores reality on taxes"). Oh, really? That surplus couldn't possibly have had
anything to do with the hundreds of billions in paper wealth created by the
greatest mania in the country's history -- the Internet bubble -- could it? Or
from the millions of six-figure jobs created by the tech and telecom bubbles?

The surplus was created by taxes on capital gains and on the high incomes of
those fortunate enough to ride the wave. But all waves crash, and that began
under Clinton. President Bush inherited a recession and then 9/11. Cutting taxes
was the right thing to do.

As for the Reagan tax cuts, tax revenues doubled under his administration. When
tax revenues double, is that a cut? Only if you are a liberal who can't
distinguish the concept of tax rate from tax revenue.

DON SCOTT

Cedar Park

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thousands gathered in the heat and dust to watch Widespread Panic on
Saturday at the Austin City Limits Music Festival at Zilker Park.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                               83 of 83 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1444 words


ROUND ROCK

Early voting till Tuesday in runoff

Early voting ends Tuesday for the Round Rock City Council Place 6 runoff
election between Sharon Izzo and Ted Williamson.

Election day is Dec. 17.

Visit www.ci.round-rock.tx.us for polling places and times.

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

GOP candidates file for offices

A slew of Republican candidates have filed for various Williamson County offices
since the official filing period began Saturday.

County Court-at-Law No. 1 Judge Suzanne Brooks, County Court-at-Law No. 3 Judge
Don Higginbotham, and Precinct 4 Justice of the Peace Judy Hobbs have filed to
run again for their seats.

Charlie Culpepper of Round Rock filed for county judge. Melissa Beaudoin of
Cedar Park filed for county commissioner in Precinct 2, and Ron Morrison of
Round Rock filed for Precinct 4.

Valerie Covey and Lisa Clark, both of Georgetown, filed for district clerk.
County Court-at-Law No. 2 Judge Tim Wright and County Court-at-Law No. 4 Judge
John McMaster, both from Georgetown, filed for re-election.

Democrat Jim Stauber of Liberty Hill filed for the District 20 state
representative seat.

AUSTIN

Chomping carp = no drawdown

For the first time in six years, Lake Austin will not be drawn down 12 feet this
winter to combat hydrilla and other pesky water weeds.

Previous drawdowns, mechanical harvesting and the use of sterile Asian grass
carp seem to have done the trick.

In recent surveys, Texas Parks and Wildlife Department scientists found only
about 9 acres of hydrilla in September and 13 in November, compared with nearly
250 acres in September 2004.

At its worst, hydrilla covered more than 300 acres of Lake Austin in 2002,
impeding recreation.

"We believe the grass carp will be able to control the limited amount of
hydrilla that is remaining," Austin biologist Mary Gilroy said.

Private school holding open house

ACE Primary Academy, a private, independent school for gifted and high-achieving
students, will hold an open house from 3:30 to 5 p.m. Sunday at 3901 Shoal Creek
Blvd.

ACE Primary says it combines the flexibility of gifted instruction with the
global framework of the International Baccalaureate Primary Years curriculum.

It's accepting students ages 5 to 12. For more information, visit
www.aceacademies.com or call Donna Hulsey, head of school, at 329-5897.

New Orleans artwork on display

As a tribute to the city of New Orleans and the Hurricane Katrina evacuees, an
oil painting called "New Orleans, the Natchez and Black Sails on the
Mississippi," painted in 1994, will be on exhibit on the second floor of the
Capitol Extension at the state Capitol.

The painter, Don Edelman, is a national award-winning artist. The painting is
sponsored by state Rep. Elliott Naishtat, D-Austin, and the Texas State
Preservation Board.

Evacuee accused of robbing bank

A former Louisiana resident who moved to Austin after Hurricane Katrina was
charged Thursday in federal court with robbing a bank on North Lamar Boulevard
last month.

On Nov. 22, Derrick Terrill Nix, 30 -- wearing white socks on his hands and a
black baseball cap -- walked into the Wells Fargo branch at 9810 N. Lamar Blvd.
near Rundberg Lane, pointed a gun at a teller and demanded "all of it,"
according to a federal affidavit.

Nix left with an undisclosed amount of cash.

After Austin police disseminated surveillance photos of the robber, a caller
reported that the robber looked like a man named Derrick he had met at the
Austin Convention Center after the hurricane, the affidavit said.

Another tipster said that he saw the robber at the hurricane relief center on
Airport Boulevard.

Police also learned that Nix had an outstanding felony warrant out of Louisiana
for forgery, the affidavit said.

Austin police arrested Nix on Nov. 28 and booked him into the Travis County
Jail, where he remained Thursday.

Police traffic enforcement

Police will be watching for traffic-law violations in these areas this morning:

Braker Lane from Interstate 35 to Parkfield Drive; 4000 block of Airport
Boulevard; Koenig Lane; 4000 block of Duval Road; West Slaughter Lane.

TEXAS DIGEST

ODESSA

Woman suffers 40 dog bites

An Odessa woman is recovering from an attack by a stray dog that bit her 40
times as she walked to a friend's house.

Carol Hensley, 36, was going to pick up some flowers last week when she saw the
dog moving toward her. Three of the friend's dogs were with her.

Hensley realized the blue heeler mix was going to attack only when it lunged at
her. The dog first sank its teeth into her right Achilles tendon, causing her to
fall, she said. As she fought it off, the dog repeatedly bit her.

"I tried to cover my face," she said in a story in Thursday's Odessa American.
"I was screaming. I was afraid the other dogs would attack, too."

A neighbor with a BB gun shot the dog, chasing it away.

Hensley was treated by paramedics and released. The dog will be euthanized
today, said Mike Sharp, an animal control officer.

GALVESTON

One historic 'sister' up for sale

After repairing wind damage to one of Galveston Island's Twin Sisters landmarks,
the Galveston Historical Foundation is putting the home up for sale.

The home was severely damaged in May when winds slammed a neighboring home into
it, dislodging both from their 8-foot piers. The homes in the East End district
were built in 1893.

The historical foundation bought the house at 1821 Winnie St. and is returning
the house to its piers, replacing the roof and rebuilding the porch. But it
remains a "total fixer-upper," said David Bowers, chairman of the foundation's
real estate committee.

The owner of the other "sister" is making repairs to his home.

SAN JUAN

Valley diocese marks 40th year

With a roar of mariachi music and a long procession of priests, the Catholic
Diocese of Brownsville celebrated its 40th anniversary.

Hundreds of Catholics from the Rio Grande Valley marked the event Wednesday
night at the Basilica of Our Lady of San Juan.

It also was a celebration for the basilica, which had its 25th year marked by an
official dedication with ancient Catholic rites.

Until 1965, Valley churches were part of the Diocese of Galveston. Pope Paul VI
that year established the Diocese of Brownsville.

CAMPAIGN WATCH

Kinky's not kidding about run

It's no joke, Texas writer and musician Kinky Friedman said Thursday: He's
officially running for governor of Texas.

"I hope this candidacy will help others dream bigger. This is something I never
thought about doing in my life, never planned to do," Friedman said. "I'm an
accidental candidate, and I'm very glad that I am right now."

Chomping on a cigar and wearing purple sunglasses, Friedman filed his official
intent to run as an independent candidate with the secretary of state's office.
He announced his candidacy at a news conference in February in front of the
Alamo.

In between his familiar one-liners, Friedman promised Thursday to ignore the
lobbyists and special interests he says are too influential in Texas politics.
He said he intends to follow one piece of advice from Jesse Ventura, the former
wrestler-turned-governor of Minnesota, who won as an independent: Never speak to
a lobbyist.

Friedman, whose jokes and campaign promises are hard to distinguish, said he can
be taken seriously in his bid for governor.

"Are we serious? We are as serious as Will Rogers or Mark Twain were serious,"
Friedman said. "Those are my heroes. . . . (They) were humorists, but they were
truth-tellers. And they believed that humor was the best way."

Brown, once out, now back in

Is he in or out? We still don't know. Austin lawyer Andy Brown filed an
application Thursday to run in the Jan. 17 special election for Texas House
District 48, left vacant when Todd Baxter resigned in November. Two days
earlier, Brown, a Democrat, had said he was not going to run.

Brown said he filed the application not as a candidate but to find out if he is
eligible to run. Brown moved into the district in May, and state law requires a
candidate to live in the district at least one year before a general election.

"My understanding is they won't issue opinions over who is eligible unless you
actually apply," Brown said. "They won't answer hypothetical questions."

Running in the special election are Republican Ben Bentzin and Democrats Donna
Howard and Kathy Rider.

-- Lilly Rockwell

(photo caption)

AUSTIN

Warm and toasty on a cold day

Ashley Sinnerind wasn't going to let cold weather get her down. While helping
her aunt Thursday at a Christmas tree lot at North Lamar Boulevard and San
Gabriel Street, Ashley, 6, found the sun's rays comforting and the act of
helping others joyous. 'I got to . . . tie bows on people's Christmas trees.'

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2005



CORRECTION: * Republican Lisa David's name was reported incorrectly in a Central
Texas Digest item on Page B2 Friday. She is running for Williamson County
district clerk.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman
