
                               1 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 16, 2004 Wednesday

Rising seas erode Britain's coastline;
Climate change doesn't seem to be waiting until the day after tomorrow

BYLINE: Don Melvin, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 774 words


LONDON -- At one point in the recently released "The Day After Tomorrow," a
movie in which sudden global warming melts the polar ice caps, the sea rises to
such an extent that a tide five stories high crashes through Manhattan.

In Britain, the real-life effects of global warming are less visually
spectacular. But if the country's leading scientists are to be believed, they
are just as horrifying -- or perhaps more so, for being fact rather than
fiction.

Britain, an island nation, is shrinking. Its coastline is being eaten away by
the rising sea. The National Trust, a private charity that buys threatened
shoreline and countryside, has abandoned its effort to protect some stretches of
coast and is simply waiting for an assortment of cottages to fall into the sea.

A panel of 60 British climate-change experts released a government-sponsored
report in May saying that global warming means up to 4 million Britons may risk
having their homes inundated. The national cost of flooding will rise from $2.6
billion a year to $52 billion by 2080, the report said.

Titled "Future Flooding," the report said the threat is growing and its most
dire predictions will happen by 2050.

A senior government adviser warned in mid-May that the government might one day
have to consider an "orderly retreat" from London because parts of the
2,000-year-old city are below sea level. Birmingham, 320 feet above sea level,
might be better, said Paul Samuels, who is leading a Europe-wide study on
flooding.

Samuels said London could be "mostly gone in the next few centuries."

Although the threat is not imminent, British scientists have grown stark in
their warnings.

The most important duty of political leaders is to protect the security of their
people, which was, after all, the rationale for going to war in Iraq, wrote John
Houghton, the former head of the country's Meteorological Office, in a newspaper
column last year.

"And yet our long-term security is threatened by a problem at least as dangerous
as chemical, nuclear or biological weapons, or indeed international terrorism:
human-induced climate change," he wrote.

He had no hesitation, he said, in describing climate change as a "weapon of mass
destruction."

His warning -- that global warming poses a threat greater than terrorism -- was
echoed this year by David King, the government's chief scientist and the man who
directed the recently released report.

The report said Britain must create "green corridors" in cities to act as safety
valves into which floodwaters can be channeled. It said parts of some urban
areas may have to be abandoned and oil refineries moved inland. Many homes, it
warned, may become uninsurable.

Some scientists predict the sea level will rise a foot by 2075. Samuels, who
suggested the possibility of a government retreat from London, was working on
the premise that the tidal section of the Thames River will rise up to three
feet a century, a situation exacerbated by the slow sinking of the land on which
some of London is built.

The Environment Agency, which operates the Thames barrier that currently
protects London from flooding, says the barrier will remain effective until
about 2030. A city government study has warned that 20-foot embankments might be
needed.

The problem of Britain's erosion drew headlines in May with the release of the
report by the climate-change experts. But the problem was not news to local
officials who have observed Britain's shrinkage up close. In March, two local
authorities in northeast Scotland, the Aberdeen City Council and the
Aberdeenshire Council, started discussing whether to join forces with other
organizations and business leaders to combat the problem.

"Due to the effects of global warming and the associated rise in sea levels,
coastal defense is increasingly a major issue," said Dave Gordon, the Aberdeen
City Council's top environmental official. A coordinated policy is vital, he
said.

Some think a coordinated policy will not be enough. The National Trust has bowed
to the inevitability of the coast being eaten away and has abandoned efforts to
protect more than 50 different areas. Trust officials have advised other
landowners to do the same or face the prospect of having wasted billions of
pounds in the effort.

"We own 650 miles of coast, and every mile of that is undergoing change," said
Rob Jarman, the trust's head of sustainability and environmental practices.

Meanwhile, the trust is hedging its bets. It has begun buying thousands of acres
farther inland so that it will hold title to Britain's new coastline the day
after tomorrow -- or whenever that day should come.

dmelvin@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                               2 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 9, 2004 Tuesday

Global warming tied to ecological changes, scientists conclude

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 396 words


WASHINGTON -- From Florida to Alaska and coast to coast, nature's indicators
show strong evidence of global warming in America, scientists said Monday.

A report co-written by University of Texas biologist Camille Parmesan concluded
that more than 40 scientific studies link climate change with observed
ecological changes. In half of the studies, the link is strong, the report
stated.

Satellite data and a century of temperature records have shown an overall
increase in global temperatures to parallel the buildup of heat-trapping
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.

In the report released by the Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Parmesan and
University of Colorado ecologist Hector Galbraith say there is growing and
scientific evidence that shows specific trends in the United States.

"What we were able to show is it's happening in everyone's back yard," Parmesan
said.

In some cases, the buildup of heat-trapping greenhouse gases has caused plants
and animals to shift their habitats northward. In others, the timing of natural
cycles has been altered, the scientists said.

"Of 40 studies on individual species we reviewed, about 20 show strong evidence
that changes are due to local climate change," she added.

Release of the Pew report coincided with a massive international study
concluding that the Arctic region is warming twice as fast as the rest of the
planet.

The polar warming is marked by melting glaciers, shrinking sea ice and climatic
changes that are turning solid ground into swamps, according to a study by the
Arctic Council, an association of six indigenous groups and scientists in eight
nations with territory inside the Arctic Circle, including the United States.

The study concluded that the polar trend points to a time when the Arctic Ocean
will be ice-free during the summer, a development that researchers say would
push polar bears, ice-dwelling seals and some birds to the brink of extinction.

Frank Maisano, a lobbyist for power companies in Washington, said the reports
"don't tell us a lot we didn't already know."

"It does nothing but continue the drumbeat of reasons why we need to move
forward with a rational policy for dealing with climate change," he said.

He said the best contribution the United States could make to controlling global
warming would be to export efficient energy technologies to the world's
developing nations.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                               3 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 26, 2004 Sunday

Bush may face stiff opposition to tax changes;
Political climate not promising for president's push to overhaul code

BYLINE: Marilyn Geewax, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1551 words


WASHINGTON -- Next month, President Bush and expanded Republican majorities in
Congress will begin working on what could be a popular cause: changes in the
income tax code.

In a series of public forums this month, Bush has pushed for a simpler system by
arguing that "the tax code is a complicated mess" that hampers economic growth
and makes it harder for Americans to freely invest their own assets.

At his year-end news conference last week, the president said, "Soon I will
appoint a citizens' panel to recommend ways we can transform the outdated tax
code."

But the determination and political clout that helped Bush push through major
tax cuts in his first term might not be enough to bring about dramatic changes
this time.

Asked last month to describe a tax system built according to his principles,
Bush said it would be "a fair system, that it wouldn't be complicated, that . .
. loopholes wouldn't be there for special interests." But those loopholes are
mainly existing tax deductions that are well guarded by the interests to which
they mean billions of dollars each year.

Some see a historic confrontation in the making.

"There are more lobbyists, a sharper partisan atmosphere and higher
expectations," said Peter Sepp, a spokesman for the National Taxpayers Union, a
conservative group that supports a bill by Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., to
replace the income tax with a national sales tax.

Conservatives who worked for Bush's re-election want him to reward their efforts
by backing sweeping structural reforms, not incremental improvements, Sepp said.

But Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a
liberal-leaning group, said the separate battle next year over Social Security
changes will be so bruising that Bush won't try to simultaneously promote a
radical tax change.

During an economic conference assembled two weeks ago by the White House, Bush
said nothing about replacing the income tax with a sales tax.

"If Bush were really looking to go to a sales tax, he would have had to start
laying the groundwork already," Baker said.

In addition to a national sales tax, other dramatic changes favored by some
conservatives include a flat tax, in which all individuals would be taxed at the
same rate regardless of income, and a value-added tax. Europeans have long used
this type of cascading sales tax: As an item moves along through the production
and distribution chains, each company pays a tax, including the final seller.

There are constraints that make it likely Bush will choose to adjust, not
replace, the existing income tax system.

Even scaled-down attempts to change the tax code must take into account the
nation's budget deficit -- $413 billion for fiscal year 2004. To keep the
deficit from worsening, Bush has pledged to make any change revenue neutral,
meaning that for every new tax break there will be a tax increase.

Bush also has said tax changes must promote his goal of building an "ownership
society" in which individuals would be encouraged to buy stocks and bonds.

To accomplish his three goals -- make the tax code simpler, promote investment
and keep the deficit from worsening -- Bush is seen as likely to push for ways
to make saving easier and more financially rewarding.

Already the tax code allows people to save money in tax-advantaged accounts for
purposes involving retirement, health care and education. Last year, in his
State of the Union speech, Bush said he also wants breaks for people who want to
save money for any purpose.

Bush potentially could promote ownership and simplicity by creating just one
jumbo, tax-advantaged account that individuals could use for all savings
purposes, from child care to old age, without having to fill out separate forms.

In recent news stories, a number of unidentified White House and congressional
sources have said that to offset any revenue reductions from tax law changes,
the White House most likely would call for the end of the federal deduction for
state and local income taxes.

The change, which would effectively increase the cost of state and local taxes,
would anger governors and mayors.

Members of Congress are vowing to fight any effort to eliminate state and local
income tax deductions.

Still, eliminating that deduction might be easier to accomplish politically than
taking on the lobbyists who defend the real estate industry and the religious
community. Bush already has made it clear that two major deductions are safe:
those for home mortgages and charitable deductions.

Whatever the president's commission recommends, the focus is likely to be on
individual income taxes, which are by far the government's biggest source of
revenue. The IRS collected $987 billion in individual income taxes in fiscal
2003, compared with $194 billion in corporate income taxes.

Efforts to eliminate business deductions run into fierce opposition from
lobbyists. The commission "will be reluctant to get into the business side (of
the tax code) because that's a real hornet's nest," Baker said.

Bush's tax panel is expected to take six months to make its recommendations.
Treasury Secretary John Snow would review the proposals and develop a plan to
propose to Congress. The goal would be to have the changes enacted before the
congressional election campaign in the fall of 2006.

That timetable already has caused grumbling on Capitol Hill, where a number of
Republican leaders, such as Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley,
R-Iowa, and House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Sugar Land, have made it known
they want faster action. Grassley has been urging Bush to get legislation to
Congress by March 1.

While the White House has the power to recommend changes, only the House can
initiate legislation that raises revenues. So if Bush wants his ideas turned
into law, he will have to work with Congress.

Regardless of what new recommendations are forthcoming, Bush also plans to
finish up old business: turning temporary tax cuts into permanent ones. During
his first term, Bush won tax reductions worth nearly $1.9 trillion over a
decade, but all will expire by 2011 unless Congress acts.

Bush also wants to abolish the estate tax. That tax is being phased out under
current law, but will come back in full force in 2011 unless Congress kills it.

Finally, the White House is expected to insist that Congress take action on the
alternative minimum tax. This is a parallel tax calculation, which must be made
after taxes are routinely calculated. Developed 35 years ago, the measure was
intended to ensure that the very wealthy would pay at least some tax.

But Congress never tied the calculation to inflation, so it ensnares more upper
middle-income families each year, creating a tax headache for people who are far
from the top tiers of wealth. Eliminating the alternative minimum tax could be
costly to the Treasury, potentially reducing revenues by tens of billions of
dollars.

mgeewax@statesman.com

(box)

Some key players in tax code debate

Congress

* Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
which by law is where all tax legislation must start. Widely considered brainy
but stubborn.

* Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which
has jurisdiction over tax policy. Generally strives to build bipartisan support
for legislation.

White House

* Treasury Secretary John Snow. Expected to take the recommendations of a
commission to be appointed by President Bush and shape them into an
administration proposal.

Thinkers, activists

* Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, an influential political
organization that supports free markets and tax cuts.

* Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, a group with very
close ties to top Republican leaders.

* Robert McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a public interest
research group that argues most tax breaks unfairly benefit wealthy Americans
and corporations.

Lobbying interests

* National Retail Federation, a trade group that vigorously opposes any effort
to shift from an income tax to a national sales tax.

* State and local governments will lead the fight to preserve the federal
deduction for state and local taxes.

Bush's tax commission: Who might be members?

* Retiring Sen. John Breaux, D-La. Helped Bush negotiate a compromise tax cut
package in 2001.

* Former Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. A conservative economics expert who now
lobbies for the securities firm UBS Americas.

* Larry Lindsey, Bush's first White House economic adviser and architect of the
president's original tax cut package.

* Former Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas. He chaired the tax-writing House Ways and
Means Committee and knows the tax code well.

* Retiring Sen. Don Nickles, R-Okla. He chaired the Senate Budget Committee.

* Princeton University economist Harvey Rosen, a member of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers.

* Former Gov. Pete du Pont, a Delaware Republican who chairs the board of
National Center for Policy Analysis, a Dallas-based research group.

* Former Rep. Tim Penny, D-Minn. He sometimes sided with Republicans on economic
issues when he served in the 1980s and early 1990s.

* Former Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J. He worked with the Reagan administration in
1986 to develop tax reform legislation.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                               5 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 9, 2004 Thursday

LETTERS

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1140 words


Ben Sargent is right on target

Thank you so much for the Ben Sargent political cartoon in the Sept. 1
American-Statesman.

Since April 2002, I have worn a POW-like bracelet on my left arm that says "In
Memory of September 11, 2001," and on the side is the American flag.  I will not
vote for President Bush this November. As I watched former New York Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani at the Republican convention, I sat on my couch and wondered if
I should take the bracelet off (I have never taken it off my wrist since I put
it on).

I don't think I will. The Republicans might feel like they own 9/11, but they
don't.  As a Republican who changed parties in 1991, I still feel like 9/11
belongs to  me, an American citizen, too.

CAROL STEPP

Austin

c.stepp@mail.utexas.edu

The 'unbiased' and 'optimistic' Sargent and Ivins

Do you intend to continue running Ben Sargent's cartoons on a daily basis until
the election?  How about more of sweet Molly Ivins' nonpartisan op-eds to even
further illustrate your truthfulness and fairness? I simply love their positive
message of unity and optimism. They provide sterling examples of the
American-Statesman's unbiased reporting and position on national events.

ROGER FALK

Austin

Hey, liberals, stop whining

Re: Aug. 29 installment of Great Divide series, "Minority views increasingly
unheard":

Bill Bishop's article illustrates that the most vitriolic partisan attacks are
perpetrated by liberals. Gerald Daugherty had his car vandalized and Stephen
Mason was effectively run off of a neighborhood listserv by "shrill" rhetoric.

On the other hand, Barbara Mason noted that her conservative neighbors "didn't
want to (be) disagreeable" and Gale Bloom concocted an apocryphal tale about a
"little old lady with a Gore sticker" nearly run off the road by a "Texas
bubba."

Perhaps liberal anger is related to the old lawyer joke: if neither the facts
nor the law are on your side, hammer the table. Memo to my left-leaning friends
and neighbors: If you want to be taken seriously, quit throwing temper tantrums
and acting like juvenile delinquents.  If you want your opinions to be dismissed
as those of petulant crybabies, then by all means stay your current course.

MIKE HARRIS

Austin

harriswest@sbcglobal.net

Kerry signs stolen again

Recently, my John Kerry yard signs were stolen. Four years ago, my Al Gore signs
were smashed and the replacements were stolen. Four years before that, my
President Clinton signs were knocked over and the replacements were stolen.

This defacement happens to all of my Democratic neighbors.

This year, I thought that putting the sign very close to my house would keep it
safe.  But whoever stole the sign came within two feet of my house, and in a
grotesque mockery of our democracy, had to stand directly under my American flag
to do so.

My uncles fought and died in World War II so that I might have the freedom to
put out political yard signs with no fear of reprisal.  My parents bought bonds,
rationed food and went without new shoes and tires so that I might know
political freedom.

Shame on those who steal and trespass in the name of the Republican Party, and
even more shame on them for forgetting about the rights and freedoms for which
America stands.

CATHERINE COLVIN

Austin

In defense of chocolate

Re: Steve Almond's Aug. 31 column, "Our low-carb candy fantasy":

Like Almond, I have been absorbed with chocolate for most of my adult life. The
book "Chocolate Busters," which Almond noted, "portrays chocolate . . . as only
slightly less harmful than cigarettes" is operating on an outrageously erroneous
assumption. Chocolate is very nutritious. However, any food -- when combined
with excess sugars and fats, and eaten in imprudent quantities -- can promote
undesirable consequences.  Fine chocolate should not be gulped, or even chewed.
It should be held in the mouth and savored. Chocolate provides stamina,
endurance and energy with focus.

Chocolate soothes frustrations and allows us to rise above our own failings and
to persevere.  It mellows the pain of old griefs and replaces a dark mood with
cheery optimism.

ANNE ISHAM

Independent chocolatier

Jonestown

Policy is not a 'reversal'

Your Aug. 31 editorial, "Bush administration's global warming reversal
welcomed," misportrays a recent report on climate science as a "reversal" of
policy.

To the contrary, the recent report by the Climate Change Science Program, while
offering new research findings, is completely consistent with the
administration's long-stated position on climate change. President Bush clearly
articulated the relationship between greenhouse gases and human activity in June
2001, stating "concentration of greenhouse gases, especially CO2, have increased
substantially since the beginning of the industrial revolution. And the National
Academy of Sciences indicates that the increase is due in large part to human
activity."

This administration has also responded to your "What to do about it" question.
The president's 2001 speech launched programs to accelerate climate change
science and technology not only to address remaining uncertainties in the
science, but also to develop adaptation and mitigation mechanisms, and invest in
clean energy technologies to reduce more emissions in the future.  In 2004, the
U.S. will spend approximately $5 billion in climate change science and
technology research.  This administration is taking action. It's time to give
credit where it is due.

JOHN H. MARBURGER III

Science adviser to the president and director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy

Executive Office of the President

Washington, D.C.

Liberal bias shows again

Once again, the Austin American-Statesman disappoints. In "The president's
speech: an editorial roundup," (Sept. 4 commentary page) the Statesman selected
three of the most flagrantly biased papers in the country: The New York Times,
The Washington Post and The Los Angeles Times.

Nine out of 10 times, the editorial cartoon in the Statesman is anti-Bush. Not
everyone in Austin is far left of center. How about trying for a little more
balance, not only on the editorial pages, but on the front page as well?

SUSAN PRYOR HOOKS

Austin

The best ever? I think not

I am tired of President Bush and his cronies claiming that this is the best
economy we've ever seen. Best for whom? Not for the more than 4 million people
who have gone into poverty since Bush took office. Compare that to the 6 million
who got out of poverty under Clinton.

Not for the hundreds of thousands of unemployed who watch the job gains barely
keep up with the growth of the workforce.

Not for the 1.4 million people who lost their health insurance last year. Not
for the workers who have seen their real wages decrease. Not for their children,
who are going to have to pay for the record deficits.

ERIC ESTLUND

Austin

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mike Harris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                               8 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 8, 2004 Monday

Reforming universities to save the environment

BYLINE: Jay Banner, Nelson Guda, LOCAL CONTRIBUTORS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 867 words


Water is a critical natural resource around the world, and in Texas it is a
particularly fragile one.

Texas history is replete with accounts of water shortages, including those
affecting 19th century settlers, the Dust Bowl of the 1930s, the drought of the
1950s, and the Rio Grande failing to flow to the Gulf of Mexico in 2002.  In the
mid-19th century, little more than a billion people populated the planet.
Today, as we surpass 6.4 billion, water issues are even more severe and
widespread.

The United Nations estimates that waterborne diseases cause 5 million deaths
each year, and that by 2025 two in three people worldwide will face water
shortages. In our own backyard, less visible problems include a class of
contaminants recently detected in water resources: pharmaceuticals. That's
right, the water we use can contain such compounds as ibuprofen, Prozac,
caffeine, antibiotics, birth control hormones and Viagra.

These facts underscore growing concerns about the quality and security of our
environment, particularly the vital resource that is water. How far can
technological solutions, such as desalinization of seawater, take us?  How much
freshwater flow is needed to protect wildlife habitats within streams, aquifers
and estuaries?  What new challenges will we encounter in the face of a projected
doubling of Texas' population by 2040, and shifts in regional rainfall patterns
driven by global changes in climate? Will there be sufficient quantities of
clean water for drinking, agricultural and industrial needs?

If answers to these questions are not found, future Texans will be unable to
balance the use and renewal of water resources, and we will continue on an
unsustainable path.

Our ability to answer these questions depends in part upon our ability to
educate tomorrow's students with an interdisciplinary perspective reaching
beyond narrow specializations.  As noted by professor Rick Cherwitz and other
contributors to this series on academic engagement, scientific and learning
breakthroughs often occur at the intersection of different disciplines. The
interconnected nature of environmental problems is no exception.

We need professionals trained to understand complex water problems from a
variety of angles, including science, engineering, urban planning, business and
policy. Unfortunately, few graduate programs exist that educate students beyond
a chosen discipline.

Scientists with a deep knowledge in their field will continue to be essential
for advancing knowledge, but the importance of a broad perspective is rapidly
increasing. Universities must formulate major improvements in how they engage
the community and bring new knowledge from researchers to the public, in order
to reverse the trend of the shrinking numbers of American students who choose
science and engineering careers.

So how can we meet these challenges? Do we eliminate existing academic
departments and realign resources into new departments? Or can new cross-cutting
organizations meld traditionally separate disciplines? Answers vary, but the
assortment of environmental programs recently formed in different U.S.
universities indicates that no blueprint exists.

On a federal level, the National Science Foundation, a leading agency funding
university research, now requires that such research have an impact beyond a
small circle of specialists. This agency also supports elite fellowships for
students who pursue an interdisciplinary Ph.D. or creatively bring the
excitement of university science to K-12 classrooms.

Locally, the University of Texas' Environmental Science Institute was
established with these same goals -- to cultivate a more balanced approach to
complex environmental problems in the areas of research, education and public
outreach.

These are great starts, but to guarantee success we must go the extra mile,
addressing the underlying barriers that prevent achievement of genuine
interdisciplinary education and engagement. It is time to construct novel degree
programs -- including a graduate training program in water studies -- that are
more than add-ons to existing curriculum and degree requirements.

New programs of this sort cannot be implemented and have little chance of
succeeding without the support of faculty members who drive university research
and education -- the best of whom are already over-committed within and tied to
their own disciplines.

Getting them to buy into an interdisciplinary approach can be fostered through
changes in the university's structure and reward system. Faculty and students
need to be enabled and encouraged to connect with each other across the
departmental walls so typical of a university setting.

Interdisciplinary graduate training and public outreach require systemic changes
capable of addressing our most challenging problems, including our water future
and our energy future.

What is the cost of addressing these problems?  Perhaps the question should be
recast. In pondering our next glass of water, we might ask: What will be the
cost of waiting?

Banner is a professor of geological sciences and director of UT Environmental
Science Institute; Guda is an ecologist and an associate director at the
institute.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                               9 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 18, 2004, Sunday

It's showtime
For California's business leaders, Schwarzenegger's promised reforms might not
come soon enough

BYLINE: Bob Keefe, WEST COAST BUREAU

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 1242 words


SAN DIEGO -- Michael Peterson was born and raised in California. His metal
fabricating company, which makes everything from furniture to bars for the
nation's prisons, was started north of here nearly 30 years ago.

But last year, Peterson decided the cost of doing business in California was too
high for his 100-person company. His annual workers' compensation insurance bill
doubled from $200,000 to $400,000. Taxes and energy bills also soared.

Like 4.2 million other Californians, Peterson in October voted to throw out
incumbent Gov. Gray Davis and replace him with actor-businessman Arnold
Schwarzenegger, who pledged to reinvigorate the state's economy by making it
more hospitable to business.

And then Peterson relocated his company to Arizona.

"I love California. I never wanted to leave," said Peterson, who moved most of
Peterson Enterprises Inc. from Santa Ana, south of Los Angeles, to the Tucson
area.

"I think Schwarzenegger will make a difference, . . . but how long does that
take?" he said. "Two or three years? I don't have that long to wait. We can't
afford it."

Since August, when Schwar- zenegger traded his movie scripts for campaign
placards in California's unprecedented recall election, the former action movie
superstar has been pledging nonstop to reform the state's battered business
climate.

He has been in office for only two months, and so far, the state's business
community has wholeheartedly supported him -- from the biggest state chamber of
commerce to the smallest of sole proprietors.

But like Peterson, many businesspeople who got caught up in the promise of
reform in the flurry of the short recall campaign are now coming to realize that
it takes time. Though Schwarzenegger breezed into office on the people's
prerogative, many are beginning to understand it isn't as easy to change the
wheels of bureaucracy. And unless Schwarze- negger is re-elected, he has less
than three years to do it.

"Do I think he's off to a good start? I do," said Pasadena resident John
Cushman, chairman of Cushman & Wakefield, one of the nation's biggest commercial
real estate firms. "But I think it will be extremely difficult, . . . and I
think it will take a lot of time."

The importance of what happens to California's economy goes well beyond its
borders. The state is the nation's most populous. Its $1.4 trillion economy, if
measured alone, would be one of the biggest in the world, almost as big as that
of France. As California's economy goes, some economist say, so goes the rest of
the country.

Last week, Schwarzenegger renewed his pledge to turn around the Golden State's
economy and make it easier for businesses to flourish. In his first State of the
State address, he focused largely on improving California's business climate.
His much anticipated budget plan, released three days later, includes more than
$4 billion in cuts in education and social programs, and fee increases for
college tuition and usage of state parks, but it has few direct negatives for
companies.

"I am going to become California's job czar," Schwarze- negger said in his State
of the State speech. "I'm going to say, 'Come to California. Come and do
business here. Buy our fantastic products.' "

Now he must start to deliver. Given the fragility of the economic recovery and
his abridged term, time is of the essence. Schwarzenegger's next big deadline is
March 1. That's when he asked the legislature to pass his proposed workers'
compensation reforms, which more than anything else weighs heaviest on the minds
of many California businesspeople.

If the legislature doesn't approve his plan, Schwarzenegger has said, he'll take
it straight to voters in a referendum such as the one that got him elected.

But enacting reforms by referendum could take until next year, which may be too
late for some businesses that are holding out for relief.

"I think we have been lucky in the state of California to basically withstand
what has been really a burdensome business climate," said Mitch Mitchell, vice
president of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce. "But everyone
acknowledges that we can't depend on luck for much longer."

How much California businesses are actually hurting is a matter of debate.

Certainly, many companies have fled the state's expensiveness in recent years,
flocking to neighboring states such as Arizona and Nevada or as far away as
Georgia and Florida.

It's true that California's workers' compensation rates are the highest in the
nation.

And unemployment, at about 6.4 percent, is higher than the national average.

But joblessness in the giant state is spotty. Areas such as Silicon Valley,
ravaged by the tech downturn, are still suffering badly, with 7 percent of
workers out of a job. But other places such as San Diego, where unemployment is
at 4 percent, are some of the strongest job markets in the country.

Some of the pillars of the state's economy, in fact, are remarkably strong. The
California housing market is still soaring, despite some of the highest prices
in the nation. California and other Pacific Coast states have some of the
hottest commercial real estate markets in the country. And though more people
moved out of California than into it last year, the state's population, now
about 35 million, is still rising due to births.

Even business recruiters from other states, who flocked here during the
electricity crisis and came back again amid the chaos of the recall election,
aren't visiting as they used to.

"I have not really seen any great exodus of companies moving from California to
Austin," said Tim Crowley, an executive with Frost Bank in Austin. As a former
co-chairman of the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce's economic development
efforts, he made several recruiting trips to California in recent years. During
the state's electric power crisis, for example, Austin business leaders were
hopeful that Texas' low-cost and more reliable power supply would be attractive
to California companies tired of soaring rates and rolling blackouts.

"We've kind of bookmarked California but haven't been out there again" since
last February, he said.

California's economy is almost identical, in fact, to that of Texas, according
to the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy, a Silicon Valley
research group. And it's a lot better off than that of other states.

That has led some people such as economist Steve Levy to worry that some of
Schwarz- enegger's moves could actually do more harm than good.

Under Schwarzenegger's budget proposal, college fees would go up 10 percent for
undergraduates and 40 percent for graduate students at state universities. Money
for roads and other infrastructure projects could drop. Other budget cuts could
delay affordable housing initiatives and business incubator programs such as a
biotech center planned in San Jose.

"I don't see any of this sends a good sign," said Levy, director of the center.
"If we're not willing to invest in ourselves, why should business want to invest
in us?"

Still, he acknowledged, only time -- a lot more than two months -- will tell
whether Schwarzenegger is putting the state on the right economic path.

"No governor can do everything right away," Levy said. "There's not much more
than symbolism in the first year or so. It takes a long time to turn around a
state."

bkeefe@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: After being sworn in as governor in November, one of Arnold
Schwarzenegger's first stops was to speak to the California Chamber of Commerce
at the Sacramento Convention Center. He has pledged to make California more
hospitable to business, and he's got fewer than three years to produce results.
// Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger watches eighth-grader Lauren Chanecka work on a
computer at Sacramento's Sutter Middle School on Jan. 8. His budget plan has
more than $4 billion in education and social program cuts but few direct
negatives for companies. // Patrons of a Venice Beach bar in Los Angeles watch
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger give his first State of the State address
Jan. 6. 'I am going to become California's job czar,' he said.CHANGE: Governor's
1st hurdle: workers' comp reform

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              11 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 6, 2004 Sunday

To embody diversity, schools need new art

BYLINE: Patrick Slattery, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 839 words


As part of a new diversity plan for the University of Texas, President Larry
Faulkner proposed moving the statues of Confederate leaders on the South Mall of
the UT campus. He also suggested moving the statues of "war time presidents"
George Washington, Woodrow Wilson and Confederate president Jefferson Davis from
the tower to a more "thematically unified" location around the Littlefield
Fountain. Faulkner contends that such a grouping of the statues was the original
intent of the sculptor Pompeo Coppini.

Faulkner's instincts are good. He recognizes that diversity at the university
will not be achieved without a change in the culture and climate of the campus
-- a change that must include multiple artistic representations. However, his
proposal is seriously flawed because it reinforces the historical biases of
American institutions of higher education.

Faulkner has not yet presented a master plan to provide alternative
interpretations of the current statues and the commissioning of new public art
on campus.

I have been conducting walking tours of the statues on the University of Texas
and Texas A&M University campuses with my students for the past six years. I
have researched the statues on both campuses for the purpose of deconstructing
the sedimented historical context of these public works of art. My tours and
lectures provoke students to ask penetrating questions about the cultural
implications of the statues.

If the presidents and faculties of UT and Texas A&M want to promote diversity
and improve campus climate through public art, they need to make a serious and
sustained effort to expand both the quality and quantity of visual
representations on both campuses.

Texas A&M, for example, could commission a statue of the influential 19th
century Texas legislator Matthew Gaines, a former slave. UT could commission a
series of statues to flank the statue of Martin Luther King Jr. on the East
Mall. King should no longer stand alone and vulnerable to vandalism. Some
professors and students at UT have proposed statues of Barbara Jordan and Cesar
Chavez. I would also include statues of people who either inspired or shared
King's vision, perhaps Rosa Parks, Oscar Romero, Mahatma Gandhi, Dorothy Day,
Henry David Thoreau, Langston Hughes, and Jesus Christ preaching the sermon on
the mount. My list is meant to be suggestive and not exhaustive.

Texas A&M should move forward with the diversity plaza behind the Administration
Building to include some of these same prophetic voices, as well as the statue
of Matthew Gaines. The plaza was proposed to former A&M president Ray Bowen by
his Commission on Arts and Diversity in 2001. Just as UT should install
educational texts with multiple interpretations of Jefferson Davis and Woodrow
Wilson next to their statues, Texas A&M should install an informative text with
the complex history of Sul Ross, former Texas governor and A&M president, at his
statue in front of the Administration Building.

If UT eventually moves the statues of Davis, Wilson and Washington to the
Littlefield Fountain, then the addition of statues of other presidents could
make the display more honest and thematically complex. Appropriate additional
statues of "war time presidents" might include Abraham Lincoln and Franklin D.
Roosevelt, as well as southerner Jimmy Carter who, along with Woodrow Wilson,
won the Nobel Peace Prize.

UT should recognize that this is the perfect time to retire Jefferson Davis to
the museum with Robert E. Lee to rid the UT campus of the last visual vestiges
of slavery and Confederate nostalgia. Faulkner has argued for keeping the
statues on the South Mall because the "thematic unity" of Confederate President
Davis and World War I President Wilson symbolizes a healing of divisions in
America. However, many historians recognize that the racism, misogyny and
bigotry of the Wilson White House and the Davis Confederacy will only be
enshrined by placing the statues in a prominent configuration at the Littlefield
Fountain. Ironically, such a move will actually create more division.

I am pleased that Faulkner and his committee have opened the debate about
statues at the public institutions of higher education in Texas. Removing
Confederate leaders and placing them in historical museums is not sufficient. In
fact, without commissioning new public statues and other aesthetic
representations of diversity, Faulkner's subtle shift at UT, as well as Texas
A&M's failure to erect the statue of Matthew Gaines, will only reinscribe the
unrelenting racism at our flagship universities.

Now is the time for both Texas A&M and UT to invest in a major installation of
new diversity statues. We must commission bold diversity statues and evocative
public artwork at our flagship institutions that reflect our commitment to
inclusion and justice in Texas for the 21st century.

Slattery is professor of philosophy of education at Texas A&M University and
author of "Ethics and the Foundations of Education: Teaching Convictions in a
Postmodern World."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Patrick Slattery

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              16 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 7, 2004 Saturday

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1091 words


JULY 31 ARTICLE, 'HOME DEPOT BRINGING 850 JOBS TO AREA'

Don't forget film industry

Now that Home Depot's incentives program is in place, let's see Gov. Rick Perry
front and center promoting an even greater opportunity. Unfortunately, hundreds
of millions of dollars and thousands of jobs are being lost in the Texas film
industry because legislative incentive packages have been pushed aside. Already,
a number of films and TV movies originally eyeing Texas shoots have bypassed us
and are beginning production in New Mexico, Louisiana and Florida, because those
states offer incentives to the film companies.

This exodus will escalate until only our local filmmakers are shooting here (we
hope). So bye bye, Texas film industry. And we thought we were the progressive
film leaders of the Southwest. You'd think Texas would jump to enhance a huge
job and economical situation that is sitting right in its lap, and maintain a
leadership position in its once-growing film industry. Texas film is riding off
into the sunset. What a loss.

CK McFARLAND

Austin

Benefits of film industry

It is good to see that our governor is open to incentive programs like the one
offered to Home Depot. However, he continues to overlook an industry in Texas
that is in jeopardy: film.

While many associate the film industry with abstract concepts of glamour and
celebrity, film projects can offer tangible benefits to the area that hosts a
production. Advantages to the state include:

* High-paying jobs (average film worker wages start at more than $20 per hour).

* No infrastructure costs -- projects are recruited without the need to build
new roads or improve water systems.

* Spending that is spread over many sectors of the economy (including labor,
suppliers and services such as office supplies, rental vehicles, paint and
hardware, restaurants and dry cleaning).

* Low pollution.

* Positive publicity for the state, which promotes tourism.

When we recruit high-paying jobs to our state, we raise our standard of living,
and that should be the principal goal of all economic development efforts.

LIZ ATHERTON

Georgetown

ciaotalents@bigfoot.com

Better off in 2004?

As Election Day nears, one must ask the same question Ronald Reagan asked: Are
you better off today than you were four years ago?

The Bush administration has not only created an economic climate in which
investors are afraid to invest and corporations are afraid to hire, but also
demonstrated our military vulnerability, not our military strength. The
administration predicted 6 million new jobs between January 2001 and May 2004.
Instead 1 million jobs have been lost, or a net shortage of 7 million jobs. The
administration has not only been inept in the conduct of the war on terrorism,
but also daily demonstrates its inability to make any real progress in Iraq.

It seems the Republicans, who say they are good for business and strong on
defense, are creating conditions for economic downturns and risky adventures
abroad. Are you better of today than you were four years ago? If not, it is time
for a fresh, stable team. The Kerry-Edwards team.

MICHAEL WATKINS

Austin

emptygun@hotmail.com

Awaiting GOP coverage

The Austin American-Statesman's coverage on the Democratic National Convention
was maximized on the front page every day of the convention.

I look forward to seeing equal coverage of the Republican National Convention in
the same upbeat manner. This would be refreshingly balanced, as opposed to
reading important Republican events minimized on page A12.

Longtime paying customers deserve to read the unbiased truth about events. We
are readers, not just political followers, seeking the truth on every topic.
However, we will not pay to read fastidious, manipulative and biased angles.

DEE JACKSON

Cedar Park

Changes to voting rules

I was pleased to read Lorenzo Sadun's Aug. 2 column advocating "Measures we
should take to ensure every vote counts," particularly his suggestion of giving
every voter a meaningful voice by assigning electors, in proportion to the
numbers of votes received in each state.

However, Sadun states, "This reform only works if all states change at the same
time, and that probably requires another constitutional amendment." My
understanding is that there are a few states that use this system of voting
currently. Therefore, I assume it did not require a constitutional amendment.
The more states that change, the more accurately the results would reflect the
voters preferences, but any changes would be a step in the right direction.

Another preference is to have consistent voter qualifications in every state for
national elections. I see no logical reason why some states will not allow
particular people to vote, while in other states, people with the same
qualifications are allowed to vote.

BEVERLY KIMBROUGH

Austin

Don't expand tax holiday

Is Carole Keeton Strayhorn, the chief fiscal officer of the state, trying to put
Texas into the red? It seems so, as she has stated that she would like to see
the sales tax holiday expanded to five days. The kids seem to benefit the least,
even though it seemed that the holiday was created to benefit them.

Sure, Strayhorn will say it is the people's money, but the fact remains that the
estimated savings is really costing the state the approximate $46 million that
it would have received. That is $46 million that could have helped some
low-income and elderly families with medicine and food.

By being this liberal with the state's money and more shortfalls around the
corner, could a state income tax be in the works? Let Strayhorn and your
representative know that you do not want the holiday expanded to five days.

MICHAEL MAURER

Spring Branch

Jeans not a problem

Anyone reading about the Austin school district's new teacher dress code would
think teachers are showing up to work wearing ratty, frayed jeans and $3 rubber
shoes.

At my campus, teachers wore jeans and sandals in an appropriate, professional
manner. My Levi's fit properly and my shoes have hard soles and leather, fabric
or sparkly straps. I set a good example with my expertise and preparedness, and
students behave respectfully in my classroom. Look around -- many Austin
professionals wear jeans to work, and they're not considered incompetent or
slovenly for doing so. Why should standards be different for teachers?

I don't think Austin schools are lacking in role models or safety because
students -- many of whom dress like Britney Spears and Paris Hilton -- are
exposed to adults wearing denim.

MELISSA COOPER

Cedar Park

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dee Jackson
CK McFarland
Gov. Rick Perry says the Home Depot deal is a classic example of the private and
public sectors working together to bring investment to Texas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              18 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 1, 2004, Thursday

Infernal combustion
DIRECTOR GUILLERMO DEL TORO HAD IT MADE:VIN DIESEL OUT, RON PERLMAN IN.INPUT
FROM CREATOR MIKE MIGNOLA.EVERYTHING BUT THE FIVE-STORY BABY CRIB.

BYLINE: JOHN DeFORE, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 932 words


Let's get the sad stuff out of the way first: Proud Austinites who tally these
things may be under the impression that Guadalajara native and "Hellboy"
director Guillermo del Toro still lives (at least between productions) in our
town. Though he misses our barbecue dearly, it's no longer true.

"My family, other than me, couldn't get used to the harsh climate changes," the
filmmaker said in a recent interview with the American-Statesman.

"In Guadalajara, you have very gentle seasons, basically an eternal spring.
Austin was too brutal for them, they didn't want to play out in the heat, and
they were very cold in the winter. L.A. (where the filmmaker now resides) was a
climatic compromise."

When it comes to his work, though, del Toro has worked hard so that he need
compromise very little. Back when he was promoting the haunting "The Devil's
Backbone," the director confided to me that it was possible the only way he'd be
able to make "Hellboy," a dream project for him, was to cast Vin Diesel in the
lead. Then del Toro's "Blade II" opened to strong business, putting him in a
better position to insist on his ideal actor.

"We had basically one meeting with Vin Diesel," he recalls now. "Everything went
well and the right things were said, but after sort of courting the idea for a
week, I decided to go back to Ron Perlman. And I really felt that this time it
would be important not to waver." He got what he wanted.

Casting Perlman wasn't simply a matter of loyalty to an actor he had worked with
in the past. It was part of the filmmaker's passion to capture (as much as a
live-action film can) the look of a series that is some of the most visually
striking stuff to hit comics in decades. Del Toro, who describes himself as
"sort of a frustrated illustrator," bent over backward to get the film's style
right, from limiting its palette to colors used in the series to digitally
timing every single shot, intensifying the blacks and creating a contrast that
echoed the comic's chiaroscuro.

Most importantly, he enlisted the artist himself, Mike Mignola, who joined the
team to help with production design: "I made it clear to the producers that he
was a guy without whom I would not make the movie, and I wanted his blessing and
for him to know what we were doing from the very start."

It will interest the comic's fans -- who will note many ways in which this
adaptation is not letter-for-letter -- that Mignola approved every bit of the
screenplay:

"Everything that is in the movie is there because he and I agreed," del Toro
says. "Early on I said, 'Your duty is to not agree to anything that you feel is
not organic, and my duty is to not agree to anything that I don't feel is good
for the movie.' So we had many friendly but heated arguments; sometimes I won
and sometimes he did, but I really think that we kept that deal. Until we were
both convinced about something, we wouldn't put it in the movie."

One very del Toro-ish innovation that Mignola shot down: "One of my earliest
ideas was to show the birth of Hellboy" -- in the comic, he appears out of thin
air, discovered by Allied forces in World War II -- "in a different way. I
wanted the Allies to interrupt the Nazi ceremony and then to say 'well, nothing
happened.' And then they would exit the ruins of the church, and find a
five-story tall Gothic crib carved out of dark wood, rocking gently against the
night sky. And then they would rappel up the crib and discover, in the center of
a valley of black cloth, this tiny red baby."

"And Mike said 'You're insane!,' " del Toro laughs. Eventually, the artist
convinced him to drop the idea by bribing him with four pages of original art.

But other changes made it in, planted to generate emotional interest to
supplement the thrill of, well, seeing a guy who looks like a red ape smash up a
lot of dragon-things.

"If you approach the material as a fan, with the right intentions," he explains,
"I don't think there's much room for the fans to complain. I mean, with the
history that Hollywood has with comic book properties, we could have easily seen
a normal-looking guy calling himself Heckboy and running around in the
Heckmobile, you know?"

"If we adapted the perfect Hellboy graphic novel, then we probably would be
doing a disservice to it. I feel that 'Seed of Destruction,' the one we chose to
adapt, is by far the least well-developed. It was the first, and I felt there
were some aspects of it we could enhance and change, and still preserve the
spirit. Someone said in the past that to adapt anything, you have a better time
adapting something that could use a change, you know?"

According to both men, the working arrangement was like a meeting of long-lost
brothers. Both welcome the idea of a sequel if this film succeeds, but del Toro
expects any such project to be at least a year and a half away:

"I would love to make another movie in Spanish before doing anything else. A
film called 'Pan's Labyrinth."Devil's Backbone' was a metaphor for the civil war
in Spain, and this is a metaphor for the Fascism period. Franco has won, we're
in the 1940s, and we find this Fascist family that moves into an ancient house
in the north of the country. They find an abandoned topiary labyrinth at the
back of the house, and the oldest daughter at night is visited by a faun, a
little satyr, and she starts doing the satyr's bidding.

It's a bit of a fairy tale, but a horrific fairy tale."

Sounds like a story that could use a five-story Gothic crib carved out of dark
wood, rocking slowly against the night sky.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: After the success of his film 'Blade II,' director Guillermo del Toro,
left, won the freedom to make his own choices about making 'Hellboy.' One of
those choices was casting actor Ron Perlman in the lead role. // For the movie,
del Toro said he tried to match the tone and colors set forth by 'Hellboy'
creator Mike Mignola, right.

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              22 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 12, 2004, Thursday

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 894 words


AUSTIN

A rough landing

The pilot aboard this airplane got a bit of a scare Wednesday afternoon when the
landing gear collapsed during touchdown at Austin-Bergstrom International
Airport. No injuries were reported, and airport operations were not interrupted,
an airport official said.

ROUND ROCK

Some residents urged to boil water

A boil-water notice for residents in southeast Round Rock is in effect until 5
p.m. today. The city issued the notice after a 16-inch water pipeline under
construction suffered a temporary loss of pressure Wednesday morning. Heavy
rains may have shifted the line's concrete cap, forcing a leak, city officials
said.

The notice affects more than 4,000 homes and businesses and three schools:
Gattis and Blackland Prairie elementaries and Ridgeview Middle School. Water for
human and animal consumption should be boiled for at least three minutes to kill
any bacteria, city officials said. The notice includes 16 subdivisions: South
Creek, Round Rock Ranch, Sonoma, Kensington, Greenlawn Place, South Park, Windy
Park, Turtle Creek, Spring Ridge, Forest Ridge, Lake Forest, Rolling Ridge,
Southern Terrace, Windy Terrace, Highland Terrace and Luedtke's Westview.

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

County wins Games of Texas bid

Williamson County, with Round Rock leading the way, has been awarded the 2006
and 2007 Games of Texas, the state's largest amateur sports festival. The Round
Rock Parks and Recreation Department joined six others -- Cedar Park,
Georgetown, Leander, Williamson County and the Brushy Creek and Fern Bluff
municipal utility districts -- in submitting a $25,000 bid for the games.

The Texas Amateur Athletic Federation's executive board voted unanimously to
accept the bid, officials said Wednesday.  Round Rock plans to pay a large share
of the $25,000, the minimum two-year bid required by the federation.

County officials project that the games, which typically draw about 10,000 adult
and youth athletes, will generate $7 million to $10 million in economic activity
and attract 50,000 spectators.

AUSTIN

Utility to cap gas emissions

Austin Energy on Wednesday became one of the nation's first five utilities to
agree to cap emissions of a key greenhouse gas as part of a World Wildlife Fund
program to help limit global climate change.

The City Council previously had directed the city-owned utility to take the
steps necessary to meet the requirements set by the wildlife fund. The utility
will support binding national limits on carbon dioxide emissions, and by 2020
intends to generate 20 percent of its electricity from renewable energy sources
and increase energy efficiency by 15 percent.

Rent dispute disrupts school

A long-standing dispute with a landlord over unpaid rent reached into the
classrooms of the Texas Academy of Excellence charter school in East Austin this
week.

Several teachers refused to show up for work because the school was unable to
pay them and other teachers for their work in January, said Dolores Hillyer,
superintendent of the school. Mike Gharbi, the school's former landlord, had the
school's bank account frozen in an effort to collect unpaid rent for the
building at 2915 Webberville Road, Hillyer said. She said she hadn't paid the
$14,000-a-month rent because Gharbi did not maintain the building. In 2001, the
school owed about $42,000 in back rent. Hillyer declined to offer further
specifics.

But Hillyer's lawyer, John Bucy, later said that Hillyer and Gharbi have reached
a tentative agreement. He said the two sides hope to have the issue resolved
soon so that funds can be untangled and employees can cash their checks.

Police horse stabbed

An Austin Police horse was stabbed early Sunday as officers broke up a fight
outside an East Sixth Street club.

Chase, an 11-year-old horse, received a 2-inch stab wound to his left
hindquarter and has been taken off duty while he recovers, said Austin Sgt.
Christian Malanka. Officers were unable to determine who stabbed the horse
because they were busy dealing with the disturbance at the Drink on 6th, Malanka
said.

A man robbed the Compass Bank on West Sixth Street near MoPac Boulevard (Loop 1)
shortly before noon Tuesday. The man handed over a note demanding cash, but he
did not display a weapon, police said. This was Austin's sixth bank robbery this
year and the fourth bank robbery this week. Anyone with information is asked to
call 974-5092 or 472-8477.

TEXAS DIGEST

HUNTSVILLE

Man executed for slayings

Maintaining his innocence, twice-convicted killer Edward Lagrone was executed
Wednesday evening for a triple slaying in Fort Worth where one of the victims
was a 10-year-old girl pregnant with his child.

"I just want to say I am not sad or bitter with anybody," Lagrone said in a
final statement. "Like I've said from Day One, I didn't kill them. But I'm no
better than the people that did."

Lagrone, 46, was the fifth Texas inmate executed this year. Another execution is
set for tonight.

Evidence showed Shakeisha Lloyd was 17 weeks pregnant when Lagrone, who was
released in 1984 after serving seven years of a 20-year prison term for murder,
barged into her family's home about 4 a.m. on May 30, 1991, and began shooting
with a double-barreled pistol-grip shotgun he had a girlfriend buy for him one
day earlier.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              24 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 22, 2004 Tuesday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1057 words


TRAINING TO BE POLICE OFFICERS

Grateful for police series

I am grateful for the insight afforded by Alberta Phillips' editorial series on
the Austin Police Department training program. She rightfully asks what goes
wrong in spite of the excellent training (June 18, "Cadets no longer: Police
academy grads ready for the real deal").

May Phillips' words result in transformation in the hearts and minds of all
within the Police Department.

ED GIFFORD

Austin

Defining the links

The June 17 editorial, "No link between al Qaeda and Iraq -- and the war goes
on," called it a "devastating blow" to President Bush when the 9/11 commission
reported that there was "no credible evidence" that Saddam Hussein helped the al
Qaeda network attack the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.

The American-Statesman reported in an article back on March 20, 2003, that "The
administration has said it has found no direct link between Iraq and the Sept.
11 terrorist strikes" ("Bush tells nation fight needed to protect U.S."). Given
that the administration told America at the start of the war what the 9/11
commission is now reporting, it is curious that the editorial board insists on
implying that this is an important discovery.

The Bush Administration has linked Iraq to terror, and Iraq to al Qaeda. It did
not link Iraq to 9/11.

I hope the editorial board and other Americans can reflect on the fact that Iraq
supported terrorism even though the administration and the 9/11 commission agree
there is no indication of a link between Iraq and 9/11.

BOB BATLAN

Austin

Lesson in diplomacy

During the Cuban missile crisis, President Kennedy managed to avert a disaster
that could have changed the face of the Earth forever with the threat of real
weapons of mass destruction 90 miles from U.S. soil. The president used
diplomacy, with the threat of force if pushed to it, and the help of our allies
around the world to get Russia to remove the missiles.

For anyone who thinks President Bush deserves another four years, put Bush in
Kennedy's place and imagine him telling Nikita Khrushchev to "Bring 'em on."
Chances are, you wouldn't be reading this letter right now.

R.L. HUMPHRIES

Round Rock

The war we're fighting

With a clarity that's all too rare these days, Jeff Jacoby's June 16 column, "A
war to the death with a barbaric enemy," reminds us of who we're fighting and
why.

With every sentence, Jacoby chillingly and effectively makes the case for the
war on terror, and why everything else is either politicizing it, such as The
New York Times' endless fascination with Abu Ghraib, Al Gore's latest
seditionist rant, or is a distraction from it, such as who won on "American
Idol" or the NBA championship.

Wake up people, our lives are threatened.

THOMAS QUARLES

Austin

Stop and think

The 9/11 commission has now officially knocked down another of the reasons the
Bush administration presented as a reason for going to war in Iraq (June 17
article, "Iraq, al Qaeda collaboration unfounded, commission says"). There is no
credible information or evidence that points to a collaboration between Saddam
Hussein and Osama bin Laden that would have been a clear danger to America.

Weapons of mass destruction have not been found. Saddam is a bad guy, but so are
many leaders of the world, and we're not going after them. Meanwhile, our
military is stretched thin in Iraq, and al Qaeda is setting up new training
camps for terrorists.

As a "military brat," I feel the emotions of loyalty and patriotism. My dad,
however, taught me that emotions and intellect must be balanced for good
decisions to be made. Patriotic slogans and sound bites are great, but I implore
all who are hanging to the belief that this administration has America's best
interests at heart to put aside your feelings and think. Face the facts. To be
loyal is a strength, but to be blindly loyal is a weakness.

JOHN INMON

Bastrop

Questioning ethics

I am in agreement with the sentiment of the June 13 editorial supporting Texas
Ethics Commission general counsel Sarah Woelk ("Ethics laws should trump
political complaints"). I take great comfort that there are certain nonpartisan
organizations interpreting and monitoring the actions of those in power. As the
editorial mentions, Woelk simply did her job -- which I pay for with my taxes.

It is a wonder that the Attorney General Greg Abbott is taking seriously the
complaints by state Rep. Richard Madden. Madden's argument that something
smelled about Woelk's simple explanation of campaign law because the lawyer
representing the side against Texans for a Republican Majority shared an office
with her husband is extremely weak.

It is a good thing Kevin Bacon has not done anything against Texans for a
Republican Majority, or we would all be under suspicion. But then again, if we
are not Republican, I guess we are.

KATHY EGAN DOWDY

Austin

2 sides of global warming

I was disappointed by the one-sided view of global warming presented in the June
13 Insight section ("Rising mercury, rising tides"). The article relies on scare
tactics and disputed "facts" without showing proven correlation between human
activity and global warming. It fails to mention any of the facts that cast
doubt on the global warming paranoia, such as how 18,000 scientists have gone on
record to say they see no scientific evidence that humans are altering our
climate. NASA scientists dispute the major statistic cited in the article as
proof of global warming, that NASA satellites showed a .77 degree increase in
global surface temperature between 1981 and 1998. In fact, the NASA scientists
interpret the satellite data as showing a decrease in surface temperature.

There are also recent studies in the journals "Science" and "Nature" that cast
doubt on global warming, showing thickening ice in the West Antarctic and
cooling in Antarctica's desert valleys, which have long been considered a
bellwether for global climate change.

BOB PIERCE

Austin

Thoughts on Congress

Re: June 18 article, "House passes sales tax write-off":

Regarding the bill passed by the House of Representatives last week, with pork
incentives to gain 48 Democratic votes, I submit the words of Samuel Langhorne
Clemens (Mark Twain): "It could probably be shown by facts and figures that
there is no distinctly native American criminal class except Congress. "

VAHL VLADYKA

Austin

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jay Swann was one of 78 cadets who graduated from the Austin Police
Academy on Friday to become police officers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              27 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 21, 2004 Tuesday

Young people seem ready to hit the polls in a big way

BYLINE: Ricardo Gandara, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1069 words


After registering to vote at Rock the Vote's back-to-school night at the Iron
Cactus on Sixth Street, 19-year-old J.T. Fort pondered the question of whether
he can make a difference. "I know that my vote will count," he said, stressing
"will."

As they work to get young people to vote this year, activists across the country
are trying to change the notion that a single vote doesn't matter. If students
such as Fort are any gauge, that effort is working.

"I'm really excited, this being my first election. Going into that booth and
seeing the ticket, then voting and wondering where my vote will go. What will it
do? I would feel empty if I wasn't voting," said Fort, a University of Texas
freshman studying business.

Young voters, especially first-timers motivated by issues of war, the economy
and national security, are a hot commodity this year.

And there are indications that these newly registered youths actually will cast
their votes.

The director of a poll by Pace University in New York and Rock the Vote said
there is a high level of committed young voters this year. The New York Times
recently reported that polls taken in the spring and summer by the Harvard
Institute of Politics, the Pew Research Center and MTV found the same trend, in
sharp contrast to the low-point turnout of 2000.

Declares Jehmu Greene, Rock the Vote's national president and a former
Austinite: "They will make a difference in this election."

Rock the Vote, founded in 1990 by members of the music recording industry in
response to attacks on freedom of speech and artistic expression, has registered
more than 538,000 voters for this election and hopes to reach the 1 million mark
by Oct. 4, the deadline to register to vote Nov. 2, she said.

The national movement goes even deeper than votes for George W. Bush or John
Kerry. Young voters are being urged to take the extra step and get involved in
local politics, whether it's helping in a campaign or lobbying the school board
about classroom materials.

"This year, there is unprecedented effort, collaboration and resources
mobilizing this group of voters," said Greene, 32, a graduate of Austin High
School. A key goal is getting young people "involved at the local level, like
city council elections."

Wendy Rahn, an associate professor of political science at the University of
Minnesota who has studied citizen participation, doesn't know which came first:
the high level of interest by young voters or the mobilization efforts.

"It's a virtuous circle," she said.

Her gut feeling is that the level of interest came first and that it predates
this election.

"The 18-to-24 category were in their impressionable years when 9/11 happened,
and that affected them. There were also residual effects of the 2000 election in
that it was weird and different," she said.

In Texas, 228,543 people ages 19 to 29 registered to vote from January through
September, up from 201,772 in the same time period in 2000.

Though going after the young voter is not new, celebrities increasingly are
encouraging young people to vote. Rapper and fashion trendsetter Sean "P. Diddy"
Combs began a nonpartisan voting initiative called Citizen Change. Declare
Yourself, a nonpartisan voter registration group, began a billboard campaign
featuring pop star Christina Aguilera with her mouth stitched shut and the words
"Only You Can Silence Yourself."

An Austin-based for-profit Web site, www.votervirgin.com, playfully courts young
voters with the philosophy of doing it for the first time.

The effort is aimed at flipping the dismal 2000 turnout numbers. A University of
Maryland study calculated that 42 percent of registered 18- to 24-year-olds
voted (down from 55 percent in 1972), compared with a 70 percent voter turnout
for people 25 and older. In Texas, the figure for the younger group was 37
percent, near the bottom nationwide.

"The climate is right," Greene said. "This generation is concerned about rising
tuition and jobs. The war has hit this group the hardest, and it is looking for
strong leaders to provide answers as to why we're in Iraq."

Amber Dodson, 25, a communications senior at UT, concurs.

"We're also interested in sex education in schools, gay marriages, tuition and
Social Security. Everyone is talking about these things," she said.

In the Pace University-Rock the Vote poll this summer, 71 percent of 662 voters
who registered after the 2000 election said it was their civic duty to register.

"That is consistent with the idea of intensely committed young voters," said
Jonathan Trichter, director of the Pace Poll. "And they are participating in a
robust level by volunteering their time."

Elisabeth Winkelman, 19, who graduated from Westlake High School in the spring
and is now a freshman at Scripps College in California, attended a six-week
"campaign academy" put on this summer by Mark Strama, Democratic candidate for
Texas House District 50, which covers northern Travis County. She was deputized
to register voters, and has since signed up 40 people.

Merita Zoga, 20, a UT government major, said she's thanked when she "roams" a
concert crowd for Rock the Vote.

"The ones who decline say they don't want to register because they don't want to
be on jury duty or they're afraid they'll be drafted," she said.

(In Texas, jury duty is tied to voter registration and driver's licenses.
Full-time students are exempt from jury duty. There is no military draft.)

Bruce Elfant, a Travis County constable who volunteers his time registering
voters, said this year he's deputized 1,200 people to register voters. Those
volunteers have registered more than 10,000 new voters and existing voters who
changed addresses. Many were young, he says, because his precinct encompasses
Central Austin.

Victoria Leonard, 18, a senior at Garza Independence High School in Austin and a
new voter, signed up 36 voters one day this summer at the year-round alternative
high school.

"They were happy someone went to them. I think a lot of young people don't know
how to register but they want to get involved," she said.

rgandara@statesman.com; 445-3632

(from box)

Rock the Vote at UT, Texas State

The Rock the Vote tour bus will be at the University of Texas today from 9 to 10
a.m. at 24th Street and Speedway. The bus then heads to Texas State
University-San Marcos for a voter registration drive, including live music, from
noon to 5 p.m. at Sewell Park on University Drive.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rock the Vote President Jehmu Greene, who grew up in Austin, predicts
that the 18-to-24 group will have an impact this election.
UT senior Kunal Merchant reregistered to change his address at the Iron Cactus
this month. He says he and his friends 'all feel that individual votes count.'
At left is volunteer Warren Bane.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              29 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 11, 2004 Saturday

A push to open federal records;
Senator hopes to curb secrecy using rules like those in Texas

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1023 words


WASHINGTON -- Sen. John Cornyn, disturbed by the federal government's secrecy,
will introduce legislation next year that would force agencies to release
information more freely.

Good government demands that U.S. citizens have access to most agency files,
said Cornyn, R-Texas, who thinks toothless federal laws too often let
bureaucrats deny legitimate requests for information with no legal
repercussions.

"We the people are the bosses and not the servant," he said. "If we the people
are going to remain well-informed so we can tell our elected officials what we
want and what we won't put up with, we have to be able to be informed."

Cornyn hopes to borrow extensively from the Texas Public Information Act, which
presumes that all government documents are public records unless they fall into
specific, if broad, categories, such as personnel files or documents that are
drafts and not final versions. Texas also has strict deadlines for answering
information requests and requires agencies to justify denials.

"When I came to Washington, D.C., I found a very different attitude, and that
was, 'Sure, you can request documents, but good luck getting them on a timely
basis, or perhaps good luck getting them at all,' " Cornyn said.

The federal Freedom of Information Act became law in 1966, fundamentally
changing government's relationship with its citizens. Where once they had to
prove a "need to know" government information, citizens were presumed to have a
"right to know" how government operates.

But Cornyn and a number of journalism and open government groups say the law has
shortcomings that must be addressed. Among them:

* Though federal law demands that an open records request be answered within 20
working days, with a 10-day extension possible, agencies have ignored the
deadline with no consequences. Some still-pending requests were made in the
1980s. Others have been lost in a bureaucracy plagued by lax monitoring. And in
2002 reports to Congress, the Agriculture Department reported a median
processing time of 905 business days, and the Environmental Protection Agency
listed 1,113 days.

* If an agency denies an information request, no third party or outside agency
exists to review that decision. The only appeal is to the agency that denied the
request.

* The next step in the appeals process is a federal court lawsuit, a
time-consuming and expensive process that is typically out of reach for the
average person.

* Even if a lawsuit is successful, it has become much harder for organizations
to collect legal costs from the government. Open government groups, many of them
nonprofits, say they are less likely to seek legal remedies as a result.

"Some agencies are just very disorganized; others obviously are not taking it
seriously," said Meredith Fuchs, general counsel with the National Security
Archive, a public interest group that frequently uses the Freedom of Information
Act.

Open government watchdogs are applauding Cornyn's efforts, heartened that a
member of the Senate's Republican majority has joined a cause dominated thus far
by Democrats. But Cornyn faces two hurdles to reforming government openness: an
indifferent Congress, which exempted itself from the Freedom of Information Act,
and the Bush administration, which has sought to restrict public access to
information.

"For things that might be at all sensitive, there is a tendency to deny and see
what happens," Fuchs said. "I'd rather get a serious decision rather than just a
reflexive decision."

One month after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a memo from Attorney
General John Ashcroft directed federal agencies to err on the side of national
security for every information request. In 2002, White House chief of staff Andy
Card sent a similar memo ordering agencies to classify information that could
affect national security.

"Things have gotten so bad in the last three years," said Lucy Dalglish of the
Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press. "The American public has been shut
out of enormous amounts of information that they used to be able to get."

Cornyn said he does not see his efforts as a challenge to the White House.

"What I'm trying to do is change the culture," he said. "I'm not suggesting that
anyone give up their legal rights to withhold information when the law supports
that. I'm just saying there's a whole lot of information that the federal
government possesses that doesn't have to be secret."

Cornyn and his staff are continuing to work out specifics of the legislation,
but the senator generally hopes to create stricter deadlines, a third-party
review of denials and penalties for improper secrecy. He has also approached
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the leading Democrat on the Judiciary Committee
and a Senate leader on open government issues.

Leahy is waiting to see Cornyn's language -- he particularly wants litigation to
remain a viable, last-ditch alternative -- before committing to a partnership.

"Senator Leahy welcomes the opportunity," spokesman David Carle said. "They're
important issues that don't get much public attention, but they are vitally
important to openness in government and making government work more
effectively."

Cornyn isn't new to the open records debate. While Texas attorney general from
1999 to 2002, he added five lawyers to the Open Records Division, a 44 percent
increase, and the office's open records rulings doubled to 7,499.

"We created a climate where people knew we were serious. It continues to be one
of the best things we were able to do at the attorney general's office," Cornyn
said. "There is a way to do it (nationally), but it takes a commitment, and it's
going to take resources."

In the future, Cornyn also would like to see the Freedom of Information Act
apply to Congress, though he admits that possibility is a long way off. Changing
the Washington climate will be difficult enough -- a first step he likens to
"wading into the swamp."

"To me, it's fundamental to what is unique and best about the United States
government," he said. "We're really going to hit that very hard (next year)."

clindell@coxnews.com, (202) 887-8329

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Cornyn: Texan wants quicker release of records, a third-party
review of denials.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              31 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday

The United Church of America?;
Many world citizens view election results as a signal of the ascendancy of
evangelical Christians

BYLINE: Don Melvin and George Edmonson, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1740 words


LONDON -- Whatever people think of President Bush, it would seem that after four
years in office he is, above all, a known quantity.

And yet the advent of his second term is anticipated in different parts of the
world with some uncertainty. Many people feel that the political influence of
Christian conservatives is growing in the United States, and could reshape
international relations in significant ways.

Christian conservatives turned out in large numbers to vote for Bush's
re-election. There is a broad perception that he owes them a political debt, or
that he will feel freer now to convert his own Christian convictions into
policy.

This could give comfort to those who support a broader Israel, more forceful
U.S. intervention in Sudan and a less accommodating attitude toward China. But
it creates unease among traditional allies in Europe, and dread in some Muslim
countries.

"In my opinion, the U.S. foreign policy is going to be more rigid compared to
the first term," said Azyumardi Azra, rector of the State Islamic University in
Jakarta, Indonesia. "Many people believe that the evangelists and
neo-conservative Christian fundamentalists will have more things to say, more
influence. It will create more possible conflict and resentment against them, as
well as against the U.S. government."

Some observers even mutter darkly that, in their good-vs.-evil view of the
world, fundamentalist Christians are a mirror image of their worst enemies --
radical Muslims who see in all things a battle between believers and infidels.

"I am afraid that people say that these people are the American bin Ladens,"
said Sheik Zaki Badawi, chairman of the Islamic Religious Council, a
London-based group of scholars. "I think a lot of this is true. I think that
they are so oblivious to the other side. I mean, I wish very much they would
come into dialogue with us, that they would try to understand. Extremism can
only be broken by dialogue."

Not everyone agrees that the influence of religious conservatives will increase.
The Economist, a British newsmagazine, noted that the number of American voters
saying that moral and ethical values had been their foremost concern has been
declining -- from 40 percent in 1996 to 22 percent this year. And, numerous
political commentators have pointed out that the notion of a "moral majority"
carrying the day Nov. 2 is based on a single exit poll question.

Nevertheless, it is apparent that conservative Christians expect to help shape
Bush's second term -- not only because of their electoral support but because
they believe that Bush is one of them.

"We're on a roll," said Rich Cizik, vice president for governmental affairs for
the Colorado-based National Association of Evangelicals.

Politics and prophecy

How does conservative theology manifest itself in international relations?

One area where many evangelical Christians see no room for compromise is the
conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, said Paul Boyer, an emeritus
professor of history at the University of Wisconsin whose works include "When
Time Shall Be No More: Prophecy Belief in Modern American Culture."

In evangelicals' view, Boyer said, Israel has a divine right to the West Bank
because it is part of the land that God promised to Abraham as stated in
Genesis.

"Matters of ultimate destiny ordained by God are not matters to be negotiated
around the table," Boyer said.

But Walter Russell Mead, a scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations, warned
against equating unwavering support for Israel with support for the government
of Ariel Sharon.

"If the Bush administration were to decide for other reasons that the time has
come to pressure Israel more," Mead said, "I don't think the evangelical
community would unite against it."

Mead said the influence of evangelicals was "in retreat" during the middle of
the 20th century.

"What we're seeing in a sense is, now that evangelicals are back closer to what
their historical normal strength has been in the United States, they're starting
to behave as they historically have done," he said. "And part of that is to have
a great interest in what's going on outside the United States."

While the National Association of Evangelicals has numerous priorities that
would seem natural for a religious organization, Cizik said the organization's
goals are not so narrowly defined.

"Our interests range from religious persecution, such as (in) North Korea, to
humanitarian/ethnic conflict in Darfur (Sudan), to democracy building in the
Middle East and issues such as climate change," he said.

One major initiative will be a May summit in Morocco between evangelical
Christians and Muslim leaders. Another is linked to "Breaking the Real Axis of
Evil: How to Oust the World's Last Dictators by 2025," a book by Mark Palmer, a
former U.S. ambassador to Hungary.

"We have as a major priority in the coming four years a legislative initiative
aimed at toppling the world's remaining dictatorships," Cizik said, adding that
the association favors achieving that goal through peaceful means.

These ministrations are not always welcome in other parts of the world.

In Jordan, Sheik Abdul Menam Abu Zant, a Muslim cleric and former member of
parliament, contended that neither Bush nor other American Christians understand
the true story of Jesus, who preached peace and tolerance. Bush and his
political allies are pursuing instead money and technology while parroting
Biblical phrases, he said.

"History has never recorded such ignorance and stupidity as it recorded with the
American people's re-election of Bush," Abu Zant said. "They know they have
delivered their sons to be buried in Afghanistan and Iraq."

Tensions over China

One area where tensions could surface between hard-nosed, business-oriented
conservatives interested in realpolitik and evangelicals who are more
idealistic, is China.

The Communist Party constrains freedom of religion and enforces a strict family
planning policy -- issues that would seem to give conservative Christians reason
to pressure China on human rights.

So far the Bush administration has not made human rights a priority with China,
or with any other country that signed off on its war on terrorism. China has
been a crucial player in dealing with North Korea's nuclear program and is an
essential export market for U.S. companies.

Groups concerned with human rights in China "don't have high expectations from
the Bush administration" in the short run, said Joseph Cheng, head of the
Contemporary China Research Centre at the City University of Hong Kong.

But, Cheng said, "there is serious concern in the longer term that this
Christian right will be very much behind the perception of China as a potential
challenger to the U.S. because the Christian right believes their values and the
values of China are rather incompatible," Cheng said. "It's more a kind of
'clash of civilizations'-type of mentality. They see China is not a democracy,
and it doesn't fear God."

In Southeast Asia, media reports of American evangelicals going to Iraq to try
to convert Muslims has accelerated tensions between the Christian and Muslim
worlds, said Chandra Muzaffar, a political scientist who runs a think tank
called International Movement for a Just World in Malaysia.

"The evangelists in some respects are the mirror image of Osama (bin Laden),
with a very simplistic way of looking at the world, very black and white, good
versus evil," he said. "One uses private sector violence, the other uses state
violence. Both extreme groups have contributed to the widening chasm."

A separate role

There is concern in Latin America -- a deeply religious and increasingly
left-leaning region -- that the United States will take religious concerns into
consideration when making policy.

One example, said Elio Masferrer Kan, a professor at the National School of
Anthropology and History in Mexico City, could be a change in foreign aid for
birth control, he said.

While many Latin Americans are Catholic, most believe that religion and politics
should be separate, Masferrer Kan said.

"If your neighbor is gay and wants to live with his partner, most Mexicans
couldn't give three peanuts about that," he said. "Whereas to a North American
it could seem like the sky is falling."

"There's a great distance between what one says and what one does in Latin
America," he said. "You Americans want to have consistency in what you do and
what you say, and that's the problem."

Perhaps the biggest contrast with U.S. religious attitudes can be found in
Europeans, who are, by and large, secular in their politics and tend to view
world affairs in terms of nuance and tolerance rather than evil and good.

The new European Union Constitution contains no reference to God or
Christianity. An Italian nominee for EU Justice minister, Rocco Buttiglione, was
forced to withdraw after he called homosexuality a "sin" and unwed mothers
"bad."

According to a 2002 poll in 44 countries by the Pew Global Attitudes Project, 59
percent of the people in the United States said religion was very important
personally. Of the European nations in the survey, the percentage answering that
way was highest in Poland, at 36 percent. In Great Britain, it was 33 percent;
in Italy, 27 percent; in Germany, 21 percent; and in France, 11 percent.

Dick Leurdijk, of the Clingendael Institute of foreign relations in the
Netherlands, said he saw a religious element to Bush's first term -- the
us-versus-them, good-versus-evil tone that Bush struck after 9/11. He doubted
that much will change now.

But many Europeans were quite surprised when Bush was re-elected, Leurdijk said.

"There was certainly a kind of amazement, and a kind of non-understanding of why
the American people again voted in favor of Bush for the second time," he said.

For many Europeans, the U.S. emphasis on religion in politics is puzzling, said
Alan Wolfe, a professor of political science and the founding director of the
Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College.

"Their history has involved just a tremendous amount of religious conflict and
religious strife," said Wolfe, who is currently on a fellowship in Berlin. "They
feel they're better off now that religion plays less of a role in public life,
and they don't really understand why the U.S. wants to head in a direction that
they think could have the same kind of impact."

dmelvin@coxnews.com; gedmonson@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              33 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 10, 2004, Saturday

Relying on 'sin taxes' to finance Texas schools a stopgap, not a solution

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1003 words


If you want to do your part for the schoolchildren of Texas, smoke, gamble and
party hearty at a topless joint. No, we're not joking, and neither is the
governor.

So-called sin taxes make up the backbone of Gov. Rick Perry's proposal to
finance Texas public schools. While we're all for a good time, we hope a more
solid plan emerges to finance schools that educate 4.3 million students if Perry
calls a special session this spring.

To reduce local property taxes and generate more money for public schools, Perry
is proposing additional levies on cigarettes, adding a $5 tax on admission to
topless bars and placing video slot machines at pari-mutuel tracks. His plan
also would increase public education revenue by capturing dollars that are lost
through tax loopholes and sales of used cars.

We agree that the franchise tax needs to be overhauled. Companies can avoid
paying the tax, the state's primary business levy, by restructuring as a limited
liability partnership or other such entity. Many companies, including the
American-Statesman, have restructured to take advantage of the exemption. The
state has lost more than $700 million during the past three years as a result.

Perry's proposal to require buyers and sellers of used cars to show proof of
sales price to determine tax liability also is welcome and would capture $172
million.

But his plans to use sin taxes to roll back local property taxes and to slap
caps on local appraisals and limit local governments' spending would do more
harm to local communities than good for public schools.

Let's set aside for a moment the message it sends when we rely on sin taxes to
finance education -- "Honey, I'll be going to a strip club after work tonight to
support our local schools." Revenue from gambling, cigarettes and "adult
entertainment" clubs is an unreliable financing source that many experts predict
will shrink eventually as prices increase for cigarettes and admission to
"gentlemen's" clubs.

Perry's plan to cap increases in property appraisals and property tax rates,
however well-intended, is the wrong cure for the ailment. It's not city or
county taxes that have property taxpayers crying the blues, but school district
property taxes. Yet, Perry's plan would force caps on all local governments.
Under the weight of such caps, Austin and other municipalities would have
difficulty financing basic city services.

It's not difficult to figure out why Perry devised a plan that relies on sin
taxes. It was politically expedient and avoided the elephant in the room -- the
need to raise or expand taxes on items such as gasoline, goods and services, and
businesses, or to overhauling Texas' tax system altogether.

Perry has said that raising taxes would create an anti-business climate in
Texas. We doubt it. A survey published in Thursday's Wall Street Journal ranked
Texas as one of the states with the lowest tax burdens, ranking 46 out of 50
states. Only Tennessee, Delaware, New Hampshire and Alaska had lighter tax
burdens than Texas. The conservative Tax Foundation in Washington, D.C., based
its rankings on income, sales, property and other state and local taxes.

This week, we heard from school officials from Dripping Springs, Austin and
Lamesa. The Austin district is classified as property-rich, so it forfeits tens
of millions of dollars a year under the school finance formula, while
property-poor Lamesa in West Texas gains money from the state and wealthier
districts. Dripping Springs is too rich to receive state aid and too poor to
give up local tax revenue. Three districts, yet all are faced with cutting
teachers, programs and student activities because the state has continued to
reduce its share of public education funding, and districts aren't able to raise
new revenue because of legal caps on the tax rate for operations.

Ken McCraw, superintendent of the Lamesa district, put it this way: "It's like a
rubber band. You can only stretch it so far before it breaks."

If state leaders are sincere about addressing the looming school finance crisis,
they will look for long-term solutions that generate more money for schools and
shift the tax burden to the state.

We can't party our way out of this crisis.

On statesman.com: Read more about Perry's plan, including proposed changes to
taxes, at statesman.com/editorial.

SCHOOL FINANCE PLAN

New, expanded taxes

* Increase the cigarette tax from 41 cents per pack to $1.41, in addition to
increasing taxes on cigars, snuff and chewing tobacco, to raise $2.4 billion
between 2005 and 2007.

* Increase the tax to $1.91 per pack for tobacco companies that didn't
participate in the state's legal settlement with the tobacco industry. That
mainly affects foreign companies and would raise $134 million over three years.

* Install video lottery terminals at race tracks and Indian reservations -- if
voters approve -- and possibly expand them to bars and restaurants. Those
changes, in addition to authorizing the sale of certain online lottery tickets
at gas pumps, would raise $2 billion over three years.

* Rewrite the state's main business tax to prevent companies from restructuring
to avoid the tax. That would raise $714 million over three years.

* Require buyers and sellers of used cars to show proof of sales price to
determine their tax liability. That would raise $172 million. Title couldn't be
transferred if the sales price is lower than the standard presumed price.

* Impose an admission fee of either $5 or 50 percent of the admission price to
live adult-entertainment venues to raise $90 million.

Property taxes

* Limit annual appraisal increases to 3 percent.

* Limit local governments' annual revenue increases to inflation plus population
changes.

School spending

* Redistribute business property tax income among all schools. That formula
hasn't been determined.

* Grant incentives to schools where student performance improves.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rick Perry

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              34 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 15, 2004 Saturday

A vision pursued: City seeks a grandplan for Seaholm;
Old plant reimagined as arts, transit center

BYLINE: Jonathan Osborne, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1139 words


The Seaholm Power Plant stares south across Town Lake, an art deco icon
surrounded by acres of undeveloped land and industry, beset by memories of what
it once was and visions of what it could become.

Austin's civic leaders think it's time to finally determine the decommissioned
power plant's fate, which is intricately intertwined with the future of the
city's waterfront, transportation system, cultural arts and rejuvenated
downtown.

Next week, city officials expect to seek formal proposals to redevelop the plant
and, theoretically, the entire stretch of land surrounding it.

On the simplest terms, the vision is to make Seaholm the centerpiece of a
vibrant cultural arts and retail district that would also become the city's
transportation hub.

But doing this will be far from simple.

First off, a private company owns a roughly two-block swath of land to the west
of the power plant, and, city officials say, that area is essential to the
district's success.

Then there's the aging Green Water Treatment Plant to the east, which divides
the six-acre plot where Seaholm sits from the rest of downtown.

And to confuse matters more, Seaholm's future use -- will it be the next home to
"Austin City Limits," a central library, the Texas Music Hall of Fame, or all of
the above or something else entirely? -- is directly tied to an empty city-owned
block that sits north of the rising City Hall.

"What Seaholm really is, is this phenomenal space," said Mayor Will Wynn, who
speaks often and passionately about the project. "This is a remarkable
opportunity, but it's very complicated."

Seaholm stopped producing electricity in 1989. Soon after, the City Council
decided to preserve the plant, and by the late 1990s, a master plan emerged for
a cultural arts district mixed with residences, stores and restaurants.

Seaholm, which some council members envision as becoming something akin to
Washington's Union Station with restaurants and shops, is the centerpiece of
that plan with its vast, 65-foot cathedral ceiling and a maze of staircases that
wind down into three staggered levels.

"It's like the Titanic," said Austin Energy's Oscar Backus, who on Friday led a
tour of the circa-1950 plant, where he began his career more than three decades
ago.

Seaholm's historic features, including the kitschy exterior signs and the
gray-painted boilers inside, will be preserved, regardless of who occupies it.

"Lot of sweat and long hours to keep this plant running," Backus said, looking
at the holes where the gigantic generators once hummed. "It's kind of sad in a
way, but it's also exciting."

Outside, film crews in town to shoot a Mike Judge movie constructed a set on a
piece of land that, according to the master plan, would some day become a public
plaza flanked by shops, museums, residences and, to the north, a train station.

Existing Union Pacific tracks that community leaders envision being used as a
commuter rail line pass right next to the plant, making it an ideal hub --
especially considering the plant's proximity to the Town Lake hike-and-bike
trail and the rest of downtown.

But that city-owned land surrounding Seaholm isn't by itself large enough to
create the vibrant center leaders envision, which is why what's done with the
privately owned land to the west is so important to the project.

"You need that density of folks who will walk to the train station because they
live next door to it," Council Member Brewster McCracken said.

Currently, a site plan calls for a 200-foot-tall office tower on the property.
In all likelihood, such a project would not be built there in Austin's current
economic climate.

In 2001, Lumbermen's Investment Corp., the property's owner, tried to change
zoning to allow for a 180-foot condominium tower but narrowly failed to win the
council's support.

Nothing's happened there since.

To gain some control over the property's future, the city has essentially two
options: Buy the land or make zoning changes that make it more attractive to a
developer that would also want to work with the city on the Seaholm project.

Option two is the direction City Manager Toby Futrell seems to be headed.

Futrell said the city will use the request-for-proposals process to entice
interested Seaholm developers to purchase the property from Lumbermen's.

Having control over the Lumbermen's property would also give the city more
flexibility when trying to find places for the dozen-or-so cultural arts groups
that would like to find a home near or within Seaholm.

Hypothetically, a central library could go on the Lumbermen's site, and in
return, the developer would be allowed to put up a residential project behind
the power plant.

"We're saying to the private world, 'Here's our asset, here's our vision, here's
some of our tools. Help us consolidate these projects and achieve our vision,' "
Futrell said. "The potential is just endless . . . I'm convinced our timing is
right."

But even if the problem with the Lumbermen's tract is resolved, there are still
other issues.

To the east sits the Green treatment plant, cutting off the proposed cultural
arts center from the city's other major downtown project, the emerging Second
Street retail district.

Chris Lippe, director of the city's water and wastewater department, is planning
a separate request for bids to reconfigure and shrink the plant -- the city
could do this when another, expanded plant is up and running by 2006 -- to solve
that problem and make room for more developable land.

Doing so would also let the city extend Nueces Street south to Cesar Chavez
Street.

That leaves only the question of the downtown block north of City Hall, commonly
referred to as Block 21.

The city is currently collecting bids from developers for that block, bordered
by Second, Third, Guadalupe and Lavaca streets, requiring that the proposals
include homes for either the Austin Children's Museum, a Texas Music Hall of
Fame or the public television station KLRU and its "Austin City Limits" music
program. All of these groups are equally, if not more so, interested in Seaholm.

That's why the bids for Seaholm and the bids for Block 21 -- both are due on
Aug. 20 -- must be looked at together, Futrell said.

"We need people to sort of pair up, pick their partners and put their concept
together," Futrell said. "That's why we're taking them together. Let's throw it
all into the pot and let's think it through."

After all, the decisions the council will make in the next few months will only
shape the future of downtown for decades to come.

"That whole area right now is kind of an industrial area, and it is going to be
radically changed in the coming years as the result of everything that's going
on now," McCracken said. "We've kind of hit a tipping point in the city with
urban redevel- opment."

josborne@statesman.com; 445-3621

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 65-foot ceilings at the old Seaholm Power Plant could someday
provide a dramatic setting for an arts center. Seaholm project manager Jay
Rollo, right, and Oscar Backus of Austin Energy toured the defunct 1950s-era
facility on Friday. The city might solicit plans for the redevelopment starting
next week.
Far left, Jay Rollo, right, and Oscar Backus peer at the maze of staircases
traversing the three cavernous levels of Seaholm Power Plant. The building's art
deco stylings as seen from the front, above, would remain intact no matter the
final design of a renovation. Looking out of the windows east, the Frost Bank
Tower stands above a web of transformers and power lines.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              36 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 18, 2004 Tuesday

With no school finance bill, Legislature ends 2 days early

BYLINE: Ben Wear and Ken Herman, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 747 words


The special session on school finance, which ended in spirit Friday, ended in
fact Monday when the House and then the Senate adjourned for good two days
earlier than expected -- without approving a bill.

"For good," in this case, might mean lawmakers come back for summer school. Or
it could mean a fall special session. Much will depend on progress made by two
working groups that will be formed so lawmakers can plug away at the impasses
that blocked all efforts to produce a consensus.

What Gov. Rick Perry and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst made clear, in a joint
appearance Monday with House Speaker Tom Craddick, is that the trigger for
bringing lawmakers back will be reaching a detailed accord on what to do about
school finance and property taxes, and how to pay for it.

"It is more important to get this issue right than to get it right away," Perry
said.

The special session, which would have run out its 30-day clock Wednesday, fell
apart because of sharp differences on how to replace the current school funding
system, which relies heavily on local property taxes and sends those tax dollars
from wealthier school districts to ones with lower property wealth.

The proposals that went nowhere included efforts to change or create new
business taxes, raise and broaden the sales tax, increase the levy on tobacco
products and legalize slot machines at pari-mutuel tracks and on Indian
property.

Having the state's three top officeholders standing shoulder to shoulder Monday
at least symbolically portends a change from the past few weeks. As the news
conference was about to begin, a photographer asked if Perry, Dewhurst and
Craddick could move closer together.

"I think that's what we're here for, to be closer together," Perry cracked.

Craddick and the House had been unhappy after Perry torpedoed their pending bill
two weeks ago with a news conference shot at a key component, a payroll tax,
causing Craddick to engineer a 126-0 vote against the governor's previously
dormant school finance plan.

Dewhurst, meanwhile, has politely but consistently contrasted the Senate's
"bold" plan and collegial process with the fractious House. And Perry has been
at odds with the Senate and its fondness for a new or expanded business tax.

The governor, in an echo of his criticism of the payroll tax, reiterated Monday
that the ultimate solution must maintain "a strong job climate for Texas
workers."

Perry and Dewhurst, at least, seemed to be in accord that the best course now
would be to find a consensus solution as quickly as possible, then call the
Legislature back into special session -- "in the very near future," Perry said
-- to turn that agreement into law.

Dewhurst and Craddick will form two joint House and Senate working groups, one
on school reform and the other on revenue options, and ask those lawmakers to
hash out differences between the two chambers. Perry and Dewhurst are eager to
get legislation passed before the end of August, the latest that the Legislature
could vote to put possible amendments to the Texas Constitution on the November
ballot.

Some possible elements of a school finance solution -- creating a statewide
property tax, legalizing slot machines, applying a franchise tax to partnerships
-- could require amending the state constitution.

Craddick, on the other hand, prefers to wait until after a state District Court
in August hears and then rules on a lawsuit by several school districts
contending that the existing school finance system has created a de facto, and
illegal, statewide property tax. Judicial fiats tend to focus the collective
legislative mind, Craddick said.

"Generally, the Legislature acts better in a crisis," he said.

In any case, a return to Austin before mid-June is highly unlikely. The state
Republican and Democratic parties have their political conventions in the first
two weeks of June. And Craddick has a long-scheduled trip to South Africa that
begins June 7.

Sen. Florence Shapiro, R-Plano, the Senate Education Committee chairwoman and
the legislation's sponsor in that chamber, acknowledged that the lack of a
crisis or a judge looking over the Legislature's shoulder might have contributed
to the session's failure.

"It's hard to get 181 people moving without a gun at their head," she said.
"With a court ruling it might be the impetus that's necessary to get everyone to
the table. I hope not. I hope we can do this before January."

bwear@statesman.com; 445-3698

kherman@statesman.com; 445-1718

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: What's next? Gov. Rick Perry, flanked by Speaker Tom Craddick, left,
and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, said Monday that two groups will study schools so
another session can start 'in the very near future.'
With the Legislature adjourned, Sen. Florence Shapiro, second from right, gets a
farewell kiss from Gov. Rick Perry after Perry and legislative leaders gathered
to talk about what's next. At far left is Perry's chief of staff, Mike Toomey;
at far right is Perry spokeswoman Kathy Walt.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              37 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 26, 2004 Wednesday

SBC pact is labeled a gain for union;
In tight times for telecom, a modest pay raise shows labor won a slight edge in
negotiations, analysts say

BYLINE: Renuka Rayasam, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 819 words


SBC Communications Inc. has agreed to a five-year contract with the union
representing 102,000 of its workers.

Just hours after the SBC workers ended a four-day strike at 12:01 a.m. Tuesday,
the two sides worked out settlements on major sticking points, including health
care costs, wages and job security.

The nation's second-largest local phone service provider has been hashing out a
new contract with the union since February. The contract expired on April 3.
Union members still need to vote on the contract, a process that takes about a
month.

Although both sides compromised, analysts say the union came out slightly better
on this contract than SBC.

"When a union contract comes up, people generally look for increases" in pay,
said Anthony Ferrugia, wireline telecommunications analyst at A.G. Edwards and
Sons Inc. "But because of the economic environment and state of telecom, SBC
would have liked to have no increases," a concession it was not able to achieve.

Telecommunications companies are being squeezed by declining revenue as
nonunionized cable and Internet-based telephone companies invade their turf.

"Old regulatory revenue streams are declining," said Tavis McCourt, senior
telecommunications analyst for Morgan, Keegan & Co. Inc. "The growth parts
aren't unionized. (SBC is) under a lot more pressure to lower their cost
structure."

On the other side of the bargaining table, unions are more mindful that
declining revenue could translate to layoffs.

"There is a lot of instability in telecom," said Kent Wong, director of the
Center for Labor Research and Education at the University of California at Los
Angeles. "In that climate, the demands of the union were rather modest. They
were not expecting huge increases in terms of the contract."

The union representing the workers, the Communications Workers of America,
called for only a four-day strike rather than an open-ended one because it
wanted to minimize the financial impact on the company.

Wong said that CWA learned a big lesson from the grocery workers strike this
year, which dragged on for months and deeply cut into supermarket companies'
bottom lines.

Still, the union won bigger concessions from SBC than it did from Verizon
Communications Inc.

When it negotiated a contract for 78,000 of its employees last fall, Verizon was
able to negotiate first-year lump sum wage increases rather than base salary
raises, which increase all future pay. Verizon also gained more flexibility in
laying off workers.

A slightly improved economy made it "tougher (for SBC) to negotiate with
unions," McCourt said.

SBC said that its plan's changes will save the company $2 billion over five
years. That's money the company will need as it prepares to shell out about $25
billion for its share of AT&T Wireless and build up broadband infrastructure.

Under the new contract workers will get slightly higher pay to offset increases
in the cost of health care coverage.

To defray health care costs, active workers would get cash bonuses of $1,000 and
retirees of $2,500 over five years, said Jeff Miller, spokesman for the CWA.

SBC had announced this year that it would force retirees to pay monthly
contributions, but the union, which also includes 90,000 retiree members, kept
them from doing so.

Changes in that plan, along with costs related to the strike, will increase
second-quarter operating expenses by $250 million to $300 million, according to
SBC. The company's share price was down 14 cents, or .58 percent, to close at
$24.05 in Tuesday's trading.

Some members still would prefer to see the company pay more for health care
coverage, even if it means lower pay increases.

"I'm just not real crazy about seeing cash bonus," said Luz Riley, a network
center technician for SBC and local union president in Austin. "It's not
something that's going to help our members in the long run."

But overall, Riley said, she's satisfied with the contract. "Times have
changed," she said. "If the company doesn't do well, we don't do well. We won't
have a job."

rrayasam@statesman.com; 912-2942

SBC's new labor contract

Wages

Raises increase from 2 percent base pay plus 1 percent bonus in first year to
2.5 percent with a $250 annual cash bonus in second and third years and then
decrease to 2.25 percent in fourth and fifth years with $375 annual cash
payments. The raises are smaller than in the last contract, which had increases
starting at 2 percent of base pay rising to 5 percent in the third year of the
contract.

Health care

Workers continue not to have monthly premiums. But office visits, hospital and
prescription co-payments will be higher and increase through term of contract.
Retirees also will not have to pay a premium but will see co-payments increase.

Job security

Guaranteed jobs within the same area for those whose jobs are outsourced. But
total areas reduced from 23 to 17, and guarantee not offered to new employees.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              38 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 7, 2004 Monday

LETTERS

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1184 words


Problem with politicians

I see a sad situation in this country, and it's too bad that nobody cares enough
to just sit down and shut up. Politicians have had their 15 minutes -- enough is
enough. We know some politicians haven't agreed to the Iraq situation, but they
are doing more damage than any terrorist could ever do. They are dividing this
country and weakening its foundation.

President Bush is not going to just walk away from Iraq and the whole terrorist
problem. We're in Iraq and now we have to see it through. Like it or not, it's a
done deal. The past can't be changed, no matter how much politicians argue and
complain.

I don't like that any American has died during this time of war, but I know they
are there supporting our government's choices. That's more than I can say about
the politicians who stand up on national TV and blast our government. With all
the finger-pointing and grandstanding politicians are doing, I would probably be
speaking German or Japanese, if this were 1942.

TERESA MYERS

Spicewood

Right to be heard

Re: June 1 article, "Many states left on sideline in battle for White House":

Once again, I read that our vote doesn't count. Texas isn't an important state
and the election will be by the chosen few. So I ask, what's the point, why do
we bother? I tell my son, 23, and his friends that voting is indeed important;
it is our voice. Yet, I constantly hear and read that here in Texas, as in many
states, it makes no difference if we support the party that is not already
decided to be the winner in this state. Could this be a call to rid ourselves of
the very outdated Electorial College?

Each citizen in this country has the right to be heard and the right to have his
or her vote count. Give us our voice.

PAULA HYATT

Austin

A simple voting system

Re: June 2 editorial, "System for electing U.S. presidents needs change":

The editorial suggesting a district system for the electoral college was
ironically opposite Mitchell Berman's excellent column, "Texas case offers way
to rein in redistricting." If you think partisan gerrymandering of congressional
districts is bad now, just try upping the ante to include an electoral vote for
the executive branch for each of those districts.

Here's another novel approach: one person, one vote.

DAVID ROBERTS

Austin

Sad state of affairs

It's a sad state of the union when President Bush approaches $100 million spent
on negative advertising directed at Sen. John Kerry.

It's ridiculous when talk show pundits call themselves "news" reporters as they
fill the airwaves with hateful character attacks, innuendo, half-truths and
lies.

It's shameful when Republicans and Bush stage what amounts to free 30-minute
infomercials while masquerading them as policy speeches in an attempt to garner
as much free air time as possible.

Conversely, it's a sad state when Democrats secretly wish for more chaos in Iraq
and privately desire for the economy to remain bad until after the November
election.

As the most polarized political electorate in history, the abominable
desperation of both parties is an act of sheer loathing, bordering on anarchy.
This level of hatred was not apparent in the 2000 presidential election, so we
must ask ourselves, what has Bush done to create such a dangerous climate, and
regardless can we afford four more years of it?

ROBERT BERNARD

Austin

Work with Mexico

Re: May 30 article, "How did gasoline get to $2 a gallon?":

A solution lies in Mexico (non-OPEC), which has the fourth-largest proven crude
oil reserves in the Western Hemisphere.

In 2003, Mexico exported about 1.75 million barrels per day. The United States
imported about 1.6 million barrels per day, making Mexico the third-largest
foreign supplier of petroleum to the United States.

The United States needs to develop a cooperative alliance with the Mexican
government in regard to energy. A tangible exchange of resources, in which both
countries benefit, would provide solutions for the moment. An eye cast to the
future may see developing viable solutions for strategic alliance.

JIMMY CASTRO

Austin

jimmycastro@hotmail.com

Need for human services

Many thanks to the American-Statesman for its front-page coverage of the
catastrophic state of mental health services in Austin and Travis County. And
kudos to staff writer Andrea Ball for her thoroughly researched, highly personal
approach to the issues in her articles of May 23 and 24, and June 1. We in the
human service field have been trudging uphill for years with greater community
needs and fewer dollars, but have never seen such a gross state of affairs.

There is a clear message that being poor and uninsured with any kind of serious
heath problem means disaster. When 24 percent of Travis County residents are
uninsured, what does this mean for our society? These issues are not isolated.
They are about families and children, who will cost us in emergency rooms and
jails, hopelessness, desperation and safety.

I urge all citizens to call, write, e-mail or fax their legislators to restore
human service benefits. Foresight and compassion require action now.

PAMELA SCHOTT

Clinical Director

YW Counseling and Referral Center

YWCA of Greater Austin

Austin

pschott@ywcaaustin.org

Truly honoring the flag

Re: June 3 article, "Cornyn seeks 5 changes to Constitution":

As an American citizen who has sworn an oath to uphold the Constitution of the
United States, I feel that the proposal for a flag amendment shows a deep lack
of faith in the American people. Every generation has a responsibility to earn
respect for the flag, not to legislate respect for the flag. To say we need a
law to defend the flag is to assume this generation will fail in its task. To
enshrine this defeatist perspective in a constitutional amendment would pass our
fears down through the ages.

Let us have courage instead. Today's Americans, like those before and those to
come, can keep the Constitution strong. We don't need an amendment to defend the
flag. Our honor is enough.

BARRETT SUNDBERG

Austin

barrett@io.com

Planning Mueller site

Re: May 27 article, "Mueller building plan gets a conditional OK":

The article captioned the master plan image as the developer's plan for Mueller
land. The Mueller vision has evolved directly from the Austin community,
especially those living around Mueller -- it is Austin's plan.

Lately, attention has focused on the regional retail tenants at Mueller. While
we all have specific retailers we like or don't like, the big picture of the
Mueller master plan involves 700 acres of mixed-use, dense, transit-oriented
development. Within that, the design and function of retail space will set new
high standards for Austin and a framework for creatively addressing the social
expectations we have for any employer.

The entire Mueller redevelopment process is an example of working past just
saying no. Let's continue the process of saying what we do want, rather than
just saying what we don't want. We are at the culmination of 20 years of
community planning. Keep it moving.

JIM WALKER

Mueller Neighborhoods Coalition

Austin

jhwalker@austincc.edu

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jimmy Castro

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              39 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 22, 2004 Thursday

Hello, Austin! You're looking good today;
It's goodbye, dark clothes, as I shift my focus from Madison Avenue to Congress
Avenue

BYLINE: Jean Scheidnes, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 817 words


I'm from New York. Please excuse my poor driving, my poor manners, my
exceedingly dark wardrobe. I'm working on them, I promise.

Lest anyone in Austin suspect I plan to make you over in the image of New York,
you have nothing to fear. Believe me, I never again want to see black slacks
with a blue oxford shirt and black loafers -- the unisex midtown office uniform.
It's dreary and pathetic. Has nothing changed since "Working Girl"? All right,
the shoulder pads are gone, but essentially, women still try to dress like men.
I was guilty of it myself in the years I covered the fashion industry for
Reuters. At the time I thought of it as understated style, but really it was
just stiff and boring. I was in Tokyo recently, and I marveled at how the
white-collar workers -- they're called "salarymen" -- wear nearly identical
business attire. New York is only slightly more varied. A woman might wear a
neckerchief to make a bold statement. A man, forget it. Anything you might call
funky, girly, breezy, edgy, ironic, retro, vintage or sleeveless is frowned
upon.

Granted, the uniform is fine for work, but it ends up in bars after work. No one
goes home to change. "Not that place, it's all Blueshirts," my friends would say
as we passed another bar. By the weekend, women are champing at the bit to show
some skin. The stilettos and microminis come out. The Blueshirts morph into
Stripedshirts, untucked.

The sad irony is that New Yorkers think they have the market cornered on style.
They deny its existence west of the Hudson River. When I announced that I was
moving to Austin to be a style reporter, my friends were giddy, but quite
shocked. So I casually mentioned as often as possible that Vogue picked Austin
as one of the most stylin' street scenes in the world, right along with Paris
and Tokyo. Still, one insufferable coworker was horrified. "Style? In TEXAS?!"
(He is English.) Then, at my going-away party, my co-workers read a Top 10 list
of fashion stories I could write in Texas. I won't lie to you. It wasn't very
nice.

Well, that's in the past. Life is very different now. By far, the biggest
transition was getting in the driver's seat. And partly as a result, a climate
of change has permeated my whole wardrobe.

In New York, where no one drives, your shoulder bag is your car. In addition to
your wallet, keys and cell phone, it has to contain your umbrella, grooming and
hygiene accoutrements, spare jacket or sweater, water bottle, snacks, gym
attire, reading material, music, handheld computer, paper work and (frequently)
a yoga mat. A backpack is out of the question because of pickpockets. It has to
be a prodigious, cavernous shoulder bag. It's heavy and bad for the back. And it
constantly knocks into passersby -- not that you pause, feel bad or apologize.
New Yorkers don't do that.

Last week I bought my first car. So not only do I have a place to store my stuff
when I'm away from home, I have a luxurious air-conditioned chamber of
isolation! Never again will I arrive somewhere a sweaty mess because I was
running a few minutes late and had to hustle through a steamy and crowded subway
station. Now I shall arrive fresh as a daisy, whether I rushed or not.

In addition, I can now acquire all the impractical shoes my heart desires. In my
old life, I walked everywhere, so shoes had to be comfortable. There was no room
for compromise on this. Now I only have to teeter as far as the parking lot. Of
course, I need impractical little clutches and wristlets to match, though I
haven't yet parted with my big tote bag. It's so light now!

Another benefit of the transportable isolation chamber is I can now introduce
white into my wardrobe. This spring, I was lusting after a crisp white trench
coat. A lot of stores had them, but I had to abstain because New York is filthy
-- subways and taxis especially.

In my professional observation as your new style reporter, I've had some other
joyful revelations. I can put my winterwear in deep storage! In the cooler
months to come, I look forward to the occasional spiffy hat or a jaunty scarf.
But I won't miss mummifying myself before every outing, and I certainly won't
miss wearing the same moon boots every day for four months.

Did someone say boots? I can finally get cowboy boots! I always mysteriously
wanted a pair, but people would have scoffed, "What, are you from Texas?" That's
not a problem anymore.

You see, stylistically, I think I was destined to live in Texas. I like country
music, I collect armadillos and I already have a cowboy hat, albeit a red velvet
one that I used to wear to clubs with matching pants. I aspire to wear jeans and
vintage-inspired girly things every day.

Austin, I think you look fabulous. Talk to me! Tell me your favorite boutiques,
your beauty secrets, your favorite local designers, all the objects you cherish
and covet.

I'm here.

jscheidnes@statesman.com; 445-3974

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              40 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 1, 2004 Sunday

A family's distant hope;
Aiming for legal status, migrant faces 10 years apart from wife, son

BYLINE: Juan Castillo, Susan Ferriss, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2285 words


On the third anniversary of their marriage, Courtney and Fernando Garcia talked
by phone, 700 miles and the U.S.-Mexico border between them.

He was back in his native state of Guanajuato. She was in Austin with the
couple's 2-year-old son, Maylo. Maylo listened on an extension as his mother and
father spoke of how they ached for each other, of the emotional toll and
financial hardship that have come in the six months since they learned that a
little-known U.S. immigration law would cut their family in two.

It might never have happened if the couple hadn't tried to do the right thing.
After years spent as an immigrant here illegally, Fernando stepped forth in good
faith hoping to become a legal resident and secure his family's future.

Instead, he has been barred from the country for at least 10 years because he
didn't know about one part of the sweeping reforms passed in 1996 by lawmakers
who hoped to pare down the country's growing illegal immigrant population.

Fernando committed no crime, save for entering the U.S. illegally in 1997, like
many of the millions who created a record wave of immigration during that
decade.

But the law is intended to be unyielding. It doesn't matter that Fernando has a
young American wife and child who love him and depend on him.

So Courtney remains in Austin, a 22-year-old mother with spare means to support
herself and Maylo. Fernando, 28, is banished back to his native land, trying to
eke out a living in the place he left years ago with hopes of lifting his mother
and siblings out of poverty.

The young family's lives together are on hold, their options bleak: They can
either live apart for at least a decade, or try to fashion a new future together
in Mexico, without good schools and health care for Maylo or much prospect of
ever escaping poverty.

Over the phone line, their pain is personal. In a larger sense, the Garcias and
their mixed citizenships are emblematic of the profound impact immigration is
having on families in the United States. About 3 million U.S. children have at
least one parent who is an undocumented immigrant, according to 2002 data from
the Washington-based Urban Institute research group.

Almost 7,000 people have been barred from the country under the same rules that
prevent Fernando from returning.

The country's web of confounding and sometimes contradictory immigration laws
can easily tear families asunder.

The law that turned the Garcias' lives upside down is unfeeling and irrational,
Courtney says. "In a sense it's taking my rights. As a United States citizen,
shouldn't I have rights as well?"

Finding work and finding love

Fernando Garcia Torres was born on a little farm and raised in different towns
in the state of Guanajuato, known paradoxically as much for its tourism as for
the financially barren existence that sends many of its residents north to the
United States.

Fernando got through the equivalent of junior high school before he felt obliged
to work full time when his father, not even 50, fell seriously ill from lung
disease. Fernando started heavy labor at 13, harvesting chiles, strawberries and
other crops.

When his father became too sick to work, Fernando did what is routine in
Guanajuato and other Mexican states. He migrated to the United States, crossing
the border by walking for days through a remote area near Laredo. He worked in
San Marcos, then Memphis, then Austin. He returned to Mexico when his father
died in August 1998, but re-entered the U. S. after the funeral. Finding jobs
was never hard for Fernando, a diligent worker, and he earned enough to send
money home to his mother and sisters. In the United States he found escape from
poverty.

And he found love.

Fernando met Courtney Jones at a small Mexican restaurant tucked away off North
Lamar Boulevard that has since closed. She was a waitress. He ran the kitchen.

A young artist given to painting in bright palettes and learning to play musical
instruments such as the steel pan, Courtney had moved to Austin with her mother
and stepfather in 1998 and chose to attend McCallum High School because of its
arts program.

She landed a job as a gallery assistant at the Austin Children's Museum after
showing her work there.

Courtney is open, friendly and unpretentious. She shuns material things, finding
in her art inspiration and an outlet for her emotions.

But juggling school and work left little time for art, and Courtney wanted to
save up for her own place, so she took a second job waitressing at Ay Chiwawa!,
where she met Fernando.

"He was kind of serious, kind of shy when you first meet him," Courtney says
with a smile.

Owner Kitty Salinas had known Fernando for years. "I would trust him with
anything," she says.

Salinas tried playing matchmaker, unaware that Fernando and Courtney had already
started dating, going out for dinner or salsa dancing.

Romance moved quickly.

"I truthfully visualized spending the rest of my life with him," Courtney says.

On July 7, 2001, Courtney and Fernando married at Salinas' home. Courtney was
pregnant with Maylo.

The Garcias were happy but lived on edge in their apartment off East Riverside
Drive, dogged by fear that they could one day abruptly lose everything important
to them -- their hopes for building a life together in Austin and raising a
family.

Though married to a U.S. citizen, Fernando was still here illegally.
Spanish-language radio broadcast warnings of immigration officers spotted at
neighborhood grocery stores and apartment buildings. Fernando's cousin had been
deported.

"We wanted to do the right thing," Courtney says.

So the couple set out to acquire permanent legal residency for Fernando, a step
that is fairly routine for foreigners who marry Americans. They hired an
immigration lawyer who told them Fernando had to leave the United States to
apply for a visa.

The Garcias' quest led back to Mexico, to a U.S. consulate office in Ciudad
Juarez. Fernando's first interview in October 2003 ended with an immigration
officer saying he didn't think Fernando's application would be approved. He
didn't elaborate. It was the first indication something was amiss.

During a second interview on January 6 of this year, Fernando was truthful about
his history of coming and going between the two countries. The Garcias were
stunned when the officer told them Fernando was barred from returning to the
U.S., then or for at least 10 years.

The couple protested. Courtney remembers the anger in the officer's voice:
"Well, you shouldn't have broken the law!"

Changes in U.S. immigration law

Fernando did break the law by walking into the United States to begin with. But
the law that now bars him from returning legally is a different one, a provision
of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996.

Passed amid mounting concern over a growing illegal immigrant population, the
law was meant to discourage future illegal entries and compel people already
here to go home and seek a "green card" if they wanted to come back legally.

One component meant to punish long periods of illegal presence. Essentially, if
someone lived in the country illegally for at least six months after April 1,
1997, he or she could be barred from returning to the country legally later. The
period of being barred from the country can be three years, ten years or
permanent, depending on how long the person was illegally present in the United
States.

Fernando entered the United States, left twice, then came back after the clock
started. He spent enough time in the country illegally to fall under the
permanent bar, which allows him to apply for a waiver after ten years.

"This law is far too harsh," says Paul Parsons, an Austin immigration lawyer and
chairman of the State Bar of Texas Committee on Laws Relating to Immigration and
Nationality. He and other critics say the law is devastating for families like
the Garcias, separating them and turning them into burdens on society.

U.S. Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., who sponsored the amendment to the 1996
immigration bill containing the provisions Fernando violated, says undocumented
immigrants were given time to return home and try to re-enter legally. "It's
hardship that precipitated the law to start with," Gallegly says. "The hardship
on poor people in the U.S. that are being deprived as a result of the tremendous
amount of illegal immigration."

Undocumented immigrants compete with the poorest Americans for jobs and cost
citizens tax dollars and lost services for things such as emergency room care
and education, Gallegly said.

But Parsons, who is not connected with the Garcias' case, says the law offered
no real chance that undocumented immigrants who left would ever be able to
return. "It was leave and hope someday to qualify somehow, some way to return,
or face the three, ten-year bars if in the future you marry a U.S. citizen or
otherwise become eligible," he says.

Very few undocumented immigrants chose to leave, Parsons says. "Most people
didn't even hear about the law."

Steven Camarota with the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington,
D.C.-based group calling for tightened borders, bristles when he hears that.

"They're not unaware they were here illegally," he says. "They may not be aware
of all the punishments involved."

But Camarota's group and immigration advocates agree on one point: Because the
bars do not apply to undocumented immigrants who stay in the United States, the
law has actually encouraged undocumented immigrants to remain here.

According to the U.S. State Department, since they began, the three- and
ten-year bars have kept fewer than 6,800 immigrant visa applicants from entering
the U.S. But, immigration advocates and restrictionists agree that untold
numbers, perhaps millions, are subject to the bars.

Had they known then what they know now, the Garcias say, they never would have
left the United States.

Getting by under tough circumstances

Out from under the searing heat, in the old adobe house his family bought
recently in the small town of Rio Laja, Fernando leafs through photos: Courtney
and Fernando holding Maylo moments after his birth, a bigger Maylo grinning
joyfully as he splashes paint on a piece of paper.

"Sometimes I'm overwhelmed with a feeling to just cross over again, no matter
what," Garcia says, staring grimly off into the distance, across the little dirt
yard and beyond a latrine.

A canvas bag from Austin's Central Market, Courtney's favorite, hangs on a
clothesline.

Fernando gets by living with his mother. An uncle pays him $60 to $70 a week to
care for horses, and he earns extra cash helping out at construction sites. But
the wages aren't nearly enough to provide for his wife and son.

In Austin, he earned what seems like a fortune now -- $1,200 every two weeks,
working most weekends, too.

Three miles north of Dolores Hidalgo, Rio Laja is home to about 1,250 people,
its streets a mix of paved and dirt roads fronting simple, brightly painted
homes of cinderblock or adobe. Fields of corn and cactus plants fan out around
the town. Some people farm. Others sell ceramics.

Fernando thinks his father was probably killed by dust from the Rio Laja clay
factory where he worked. Artisans use the factory's clay and other material to
fashion the area's famous painted ceramic dishes and tiles. About a half-dozen
other factory workers in Rio Laja have died from lung disease, says Fernando.
"No one wants to work there much now."

Fernando likes Mexico -- its food, its climate, his native culture-- but he
knows that having Courtney and Maylo join him would present myriad hardships.

The couple tried living there, in another house without running water. Courtney
and Maylo got sick numerous times and spent about $500 on medical bills. The
couple had no money, and what little work Fernando found barely paid for food.

He worries for Maylo, especially. "How could he go to school here, and then go
back to Austin and try to fit in?"

Back in Austin, Courtney recently started receiving food stamps, about $259 a
month. She and Maylo are now covered by Medicaid. Applying for aid is not
something she wanted. "What would they expect somebody to do?" she asks.

She earns a few dollars here and there for odd jobs like baby-sitting but spends
most days caring for Maylo and helping her sick grandmother run errands.

She and Fernando once dreamed of saving their money and opening a restaurant and
art gallery. That will not happen soon.

For now she will stay, try to save money and look for help. Her father has
contacted U.S. Rep. Henry Bonilla, R- San Antonio. Their immigration lawyer
looked into the possibility of a parole and has written letters to lawmakers,
including Texas senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, urging a change
in immigration law and the creation of a waiver for spouses of U.S. citizens.

The Garcias stay connected through phone calls every three or four days and
e-mail.  A recent weekend reunion in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, was both blissful and
heartbreaking. "Maylo danced all weekend, he was so happy," Courtney says. But
saying goodbye was more than anyone could handle. Courtney cries at the
recollection.

She doesn't want to live apart from her husband. "If we have to (live in
Mexico), then that's what we're going to have to do," she says. But she doesn't
understand why.

This country says illegal immigration presents tremendous problems. Courtney
says poor immigrants like Fernando face simple choices.

"You either break (immigration) law, not to do harm to other people but to give
your family a better opportunity, or you die of hunger. Most people would
probably choose to come to the United States."

jcastillo@statesman.com; 445-3635

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtney Garcia plays with her 2-year-old son, Maylo Domingo Garcia, at
her mother's apartment in South Austin. Courtney is separated from her husband,
Fernando, a former illegal immigrant who left the country in an effort to become
a legal resident and is now barred from returning.
Fernando Garcia lives in Rio Laja, Guanajuato, separated from his American wife
and son by 700 miles. They tried living together in Mexico in a house without
running water, but Courtney and Maylo fell ill, and the family had little money.

While Courtney and Maylo are separated from Fernando, they stay in touch through
phone calls every three or four days and e-mail. Courtney doesn't want to live
apart from her husband. 'If we have to (live in Mexico), then that's what we're
going to have to do,' she says. Until then, she's living at her mother's
apartment in South Austin, saving money and looking for officials who can help
reunite her family.
Fernando, seen here with Maylo, returned to Mexico so he could apply for pe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              41 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 8, 2004 Wednesday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1088 words


RE: AUG. 31 EDITORIAL, 'BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S GLOBAL WARMING REVERSAL WELCOMED'

Bush will flip-flop on this

You seem a bit too welcoming and encouraged by what, at long last, appears to be
a barely minimal recognition by the Bush administration of the reality of global
warming and the role human activity plays in it. A little history and
perspective shows that celebrating this acknowledgement is premature, at best.
In the 2000 campaign, when he was trying to masquerade as a moderate, George W.
Bush pledged to cap carbon dioxide emissions. Within 90 days of taking office,
Bush broke that promise. He also quickly repudiated the Kyoto Protocols, with a
promise to come forward with a better plan to curb greenhouse gases; three years
later, no plan has been delivered.

JOHN WATSON

Johnson City

Kyoto would harm U.S.

You say, "China, for instance, should be able to avoid the carbon-centric
technologies that have caused so many modern problems."

According to every data publication I have seen over the last few years, the
major emissions of carbon dioxide come from:  1. United States 2. China (very
close second) 3. India.

Only the United States, Europe, and to some extent, Russia are required by Kyoto
to reduce to pre-1990 levels. (Think no SUVs, no computers and a loss of all
productivity gains over the last 15 years.)  The U.S. economy would be destroyed
by such measures.

Global warming exists and continues to be propagated in the bowels of several
supercomputers with certain atmospheric models installed. There has been no
reliable measurement that accurately correlates atmospheric warming and the
contents of the atmosphere.

WILLIAM ROBERTS

Blanco

Smells like politics

The Bush administration finally concedes the human causes behind global warming,
but this is not a belated scientific judgment as your editorial implies.

If Bush were ahead by 20 points in the polls, you can be sure that the
administration and its lobbyist "scientific" advisers would still be peddling
the canard that the evidence on global warming is inconclusive.

But the election is close, as it was in 2000, and now as then environmental
quackery needs to keep a low profile for a couple of months.

NOAH KENNEDY

Austin

nk@austin.rr.com

Curbing emissions

As your editorial points out, we need to limit carbon dioxide emissions (and
other kinds of pollution, too). The most efficient and fair way to limit
pollution and the taking of natural resources is to charge a fee to those who
pollute or take resources, in proportion to their actual impact.

We can adjust the fee so that it is just high enough to result in the desired
target, or we can issue permits for the desired target and sell them in a
free-market auction. Much money would be raised in such a sale. This money would
be a measure of the value of the natural resources in question.

It could be shared among all people equally, if we believe that all people share
in ownership of the air and water and other natural resource wealth.

JOHN CHAMPAGNE

San Antonio

jc@satx.net

Good news about Iraq is buried

You have to really dig deep to find any good news about our efforts in Iraq --
but it is there if you look hard enough.

Buried on Page B6 of the Sept. 1 Metro & State section, I found some -- and you
liberals should love it since it comes from Iraqi women ("U.S. invasion gave
women hope, Iraqis say").

One woman likened the sight of U.S. troops dropping from helicopters near their
homes as "angels descending from heaven."

Unlike liberals who bandy about the words "human rights" for any minor
"injustice," President Bush actually does something about it and erases a
murderous crime family with the blood of hundreds of thousands of people on its
hands.

Not only is it fact that Saddam had WMD -- he used them in the Iran-Iraq war and
on Kurds in the north -- he was a WMD.

I would have put this story on Page A1.

DEAN CHINNI

Cibolo

What a veteran does

I am not a registered Democrat or a Republican. I am a Vietnam veteran who
volunteered for service. As a first lieutenant, I was awarded two Bronze Stars,
a Silver Star and a Purple Heart for my service. I am not a hero.  I was an
American kid doing what I thought -- and still think -- was right.

People who say they support the troops but in the next breath say they want the
United States to withdraw from Iraq are causing extreme harm to our troops.  My
perception when I was still in Vietnam was that the North Vietnamese knew that
all they had to do was outlast the Americans and we would abandon the war. I see
the same thing in Iraq.

I have yet to run across decorated veterans who are braggadocios. John Kerry is
the first. Most people who truly have performed heroically are quite reserved
about this.  I personally, before this, have never publicly acknowledged the
receipt of my medals. Kerry has made this an election issue, not the Swift Boat
Veterans for Truth.

My hope is that all people will take the time to examine the issues with a clear
mind, then vote in the November election.

MIKE RIO

Austin

New center is needed

For years, the attorneys, the judges and the general public using the courthouse
have recognized the need for dramatic change in the Travis County Courthouse.
The courthouse, at about 100,000 square feet, houses the civil district courts,
family courts, county courts, probate court, a constable's office, a justice of
the peace court, the district clerk's office and a portion of the county clerk's
office. All of these offices have become cramped and static. These offices need
far more space to adequately serve the public.

The proposal to remedy the space and utilization problems would encompass a
complete renovation of the historic county courthouse and the building of a new
Civil Justice and Children's Center on the property already owned by Travis
County directly across Guadalupe Street from the Travis County Courthouse.

The Civil Justice and Children's Center would be more user-friendly for the
families and children using the center.

I hope the public will support this long overdue project.

KEVIN R. MADISON

Austin

Cheney made my kid cry

After watching Vice President Dick Cheney's screed, I now know why he has had
multiple heart attacks.  My toddler happened to see his scowl on the TV and
instantly burst into tears. And five minutes into Zell Miller's blathering,
every dog in the neighborhood was baying at the top of their lungs. Take it
easy, Dick -- I'm sure Halliburton will be hiring after Nov. 2.

CRAIG REED

Austin

crreed05@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Champagne
Texas Secretary of State Geoff Connor gives Surood Ahmad a document proclaiming
her an 'honorary Texan.' Ahmad, an Iraqi citizen, said that with Saddam Hussein
gone, 'Now I can study. I can dream. I can have hopes.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              45 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 2, 2004 Thursday

Their home for the holidays;
One way to end elaborate hosting trend? A unique Austin experience,

BYLINE: Katy Barron, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 803 words


Holidays and house guests go hand in hand.

It's likely you will be either a guest or host between now and New Year's. And
while it's never been easy to be a host, it's gotten much harder. A few years
ago, all you really needed to do was change the sheets and put some clean towels
out. Times have changed.

Today's consummate hosts keep bottled water by the sink and sugared almonds by
the bedside table, along with an assortment of reading materials hand-picked for
guests. Jennifer DeBarge-Goonan, home and style expert for discount retailer
Marshalls, says the hot trend now is to make your home seem like a boutique
hotel. Marshalls even based a fall marketing campaign around that theme.

Who's to thank (or blame?) for this sea change in hosting etiquette? Point your
fingers at anyone whose name ends in an "uh" sound. Oprah, for starters. In a
recent issue of her magazine, she had an entire feature on gift baskets to leave
in your guest room. This being Oprah, they were elaborate, involving expensive
soaps, terrycloth robes, chocolates and monogrammed slippers.

And don't forget the other major "uh," the incarcerated one. Author Amy Nebens
used to work as an editor at Martha Stewart Living, where she clearly picked up
a thing or two from the big boss. Her new book, "A Gracious Welcome" (Chronicle
Books, $19.95, 2004), is a handbook for elaborate hosting. It includes
instructions on over-the-top ways to make your guests feel welcome, including a
custom bath salt mix and an at-home herbal steam facial. Nebens also lists
requisites for a bedside stand, which include an alarm clock, water carafe,
reading lamp, tissues and a fresh flower arrangement. If that's not enough,
gracious hosts serve herbal tea and cocoa in the evening and breakfast in bed in
the morning, she says. No detail is too small. The juice, you guessed it, should
be freshly squeezed, the bed linens freshly starched.

DeBarge-Goonan's tips are a little easier to pull off. She tries not to go
overboard, focusing on fluffy towels, good pillows and high thread-count sheets
for her guests. Beyond that, she recommends opening some windows and clearing
the clutter in your spare room, which "is supposed to be a retreat for your
guests, not for your junk," she says.

Natalie Kennedy, president of Austin event planning group Kennedy Creative,
recently hosted her parents for two weeks. She left an amenities basket in their
room filled with a map of downtown Austin and a list of her favorite places to
go in town. The basket included locally produced foods, such as habaero jelly
(www.tearsofjoy sauces.com), Austinuts (www .austinuts.com) and creations from
Dr. Chocolate, which makes a bar featuring the dome of the Capitol, and
chocolate molds of cowboy boots and guitars (1715 W. 35th St., 454-0555). She
set their alarm clock to begin playing a CD compilation of local musicians sold
by the Austin Convention and Visitors Bureau (209 E. Sixth Street, 478-0098) and
put lavender-filled sachets from a Hill Country lavender farm (www.hill
countrylavender.com) in their bathroom. For breakfast, she served up migas and
wrote out the recipe as a keepsake. Her parents protested all the preparations,
but she says, "It's what I do. I can't possibly not prepare -- I want everything
to be perfect."

There are times, of course, when you don't want your guests to come back. To
prevent return visits, we -- not Kennedy or the Visitors Bureau -- suggest
one-upping the domestic divas of the world by making your guests' visit an
Austin immersion experience.

A day before they arrive, crank up your thermostat to create a more realistic
Austin climate. Don't stop until it hits the high 90s. Greet them at the door
wearing only a thong, spiky heels and a tutu. Act surprised by their shocked
reaction, explaining that you're merely imitating Austin's most beloved denizen,
Leslie. Lead them to the guest bath, filled with ice cubes. Once the cubes melt,
invite them to experience the toe-numbing fun that is Barton Springs. Complete
the picture by perching a few Barbies along the edge of the tub to represent the
scantily clad teens who hang out there in the summer. Serenade your visitors
with "Deep in the Heart of Texas," played on the recorder, the harmonica or the
kazoo. After all, Austin's reputation is built on live music.

And for a true taste of the city, let them eat Tex-Mex. Feed them overstuffed
breakfast tacos in the morning, chips and salsa for an afternoon snack, chiles
rellenos for lunch and enchiladas in the evening. As the finishing touch, leave
a jalapeo on their pillow at night. If this is all done properly, they should be
oozing queso from their pores by the time they leave Austin.

If your guests are aghast, your work is done. You can always blame (or thank)
Oprah and Martha.

kbarron@statesman.com; 912-2519

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Need ideas for a guest oasis? Check 'A Gracious Welcome: Etiquette and
Ideas for Entertaining Houseguests.'
Awaken your guests with the sounds of Austin, found on this CD sold by the
Austin Convention and Visitors Bureau.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              47 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 19, 2004, Thursday

Barnett's fingerprints on CU mess

BYLINE: Kirk Bohls

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1030 words


Right or wrong, Gary Barnett stands on trial. Not just for his $1-million-a-year
job, but his previously solid reputation and that of his besmirched Colorado
football program.

No charge has been filed against the embattled fifth-year coach, who on
Wednesday was placed on paid administrative leave by the university. Not one.
But Barnett is clearly accused of running a cavalier football program mired
hip-deep in controversy that has veered out of control and is threatening to
further stain that liberal university in the foothills straddling Denver.

This at a time when the financially strapped University of Colorado is battling
for increased funding from the state legislature and has even floated the remote
possibility of becoming a private school.

Suddenly, a 5-7 record last season appears to be the least of Barnett's
problems.

For the past month, Barnett's program has come under extreme fire. It escalated
when a Louisiana high school defensive lineman went on national television to
say he was in Boulder on a recruiting weekend when Colorado was using sex and
alcohol as enticements. The local DA went on record as saying she believed it
has become a CU ritual.

The player? Oh, Aaron Meyer bolted to another state (to UCLA), as did the
nation's best lineman, Jeff Byers from Loveland, Colo., (to Southern Cal), and
defensive lineman and Colorado pledge Remi Ayodele (to Oklahoma). The school's
recruiting ranked in the bottom third of the Big 12. And bad news is heaped upon
bad news by the day. You worry that Colorado is Baylor West.

If it doesn't get pulled over first, the Colorado program seems to be speeding
toward NCAA and federal-court hell in a handbasket, and Barnett's fingerprints
are all over the steering wheel.

"Everyone's job is at risk at any point in time," said university President
Betsy Hoffman, who visited with Barnett in a conference call Wednesday.

Where there's smoke, there appears to be a forest fire. Its flames licked closer
to Barnett on Tuesday when former Colorado place-kicker Katie Hnida charged in a
Sports Illustrated column that she had been sexually harassed by teammates and
raped by one of them more than three years ago and that Barnett did little to
intervene. Three women have sued the school in federal court, contending they
were raped by CU players or recruits in an off-campus party in December 2001.

So what is Barnett guilty of? Bad decorum for piling on and calling Hnida a
"terrible" player? Lack of institutional control for looking the other way
although impropriety seems to crop up every which direction he could look? Doing
nothing to reverse the climate of unadulterated excess at a campus the Princeton
Review voted the No. 1 party school?

Probably all of the above.

Barnett is guilty of boorish insensitivity.

Barnett is guilty of giving the clear impression he excuses too much behavior as
boys-will-be-boys activity to the point his players could have crossed the line
into felons-will-be-felons.

Barnett is guilty of doing nothing to change the Boys Gone Wild atmosphere
around the football program that he adopted from Rick Neuheisel, his footloose
predecessor whose NCAA violations put Colorado on probation.

And to think, if this is the type of behavior that is going on in Boulder when
the athletic program is on probation, God forbid the excess that might be
accepted if the NCAA weren't keeping a close eye on Barnett's operations. He and
Athletic Director Dick Tharp could both be gone, but it would cost CU a hefty
price to take the high road, namely $3 million to fire Barnett.

Unquestionably, Barnett bears culpability in this sordid tale. He is paid more
than $1 million to oversee the football program, and his duties include
accountability for the actions of himself, his staff and his players.

Texas courted Barnett seriously before it settled on Mack Brown in 1998, and
Texas Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds on Wednesday said the CU coach has "always
been recognized as an honorable person who does things the right way."

At the very least, however, Barnett was way out of bounds for trashing Hnida
after her allegations that she was raped by a football teammate at his apartment
in the summer of 2000. Barnett dismissed her from the team and said she was a
"terrible" player.

Is that the least bit relevant? Was he implying that it's OK to rape or sexually
harass players who have mediocre football skills? Let's hope not.

Rape and domestic violence are paramount issues in society. Even the hint that
rape allegations are not to be taken seriously is fraught with ignorance at best
and arrogance at worse when, according to the National Institute of Justice and
Bureau of Justice Statistics, about 3 percent of all college women suffer a rape
or attempted rape during any college year.

Should Hnida be faulted for just now coming forward? Not when a report released
by the Senate Judiciary Committee last June says only one in 100 victims of
forcible rape sees her attacker go to prison. Where's the incentive?

On the issue of sex parties to recruit athletes, Barnett said he was unaware,
which begs serious questions. What should a head coach know? Is it even possible
to monitor the actions of up to 100 football players who represent their
universities? It is the height of naivete to suggest that no head coach or
assistant would pick up on harassment of the only woman on the team or on wild
parties during recruiting weekends.

But the behavior of athletes takes coaches into a dark and murky area. They
recruited the players, so they're responsible for them, which is a tough if not
impossible task.

"If a math professor is held responsible for the actions of one of his students,
would that be right? No," Dodds said. "Say you pick 300 students on our campus;
I'll put our 300 scholarship athletes against yours, and we'll see whose
behavior is better. Sometimes it's a culture that causes gambling at one school
or steroids at another or what's going on at Colorado now. You've got to change
the culture."

Colorado needs to do exactly that. But it may no longer be up to Barnett.

kbohls@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              52 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 13, 2004 Thursday

Another round for Texas brews?;
Some craft beers have had it tough in the Lone Star State (or rather,the Bud
Light state), but local brewmeisters see a hoppy future

BYLINE: Mark Lisheron, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: XL ENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1961 words


A malty surprise awaits Austin beer drinkers at the Texas Craft Brewers Festival
this Saturday.

Amy and Rob Cartwright will, for the first time, pour their pale ale, brown ale
and wheat ale at the largest such tasting event in Texas. These beers will carry
the name of Independence Brewing Co., the first new microbrewery in years in
Central Texas. The Cartwrights chose a name they feel evokes the character of
Texas. They await final licensing for their brewery at 3913 Todd Lane.

At another of the festival booths, Steve Anderson will pour the beers he makes
for Live Oak Brewing Co. of Austin. Before the year is out, Anderson hopes to
reassemble brewing equipment that has been in storage at Callahan's General
Store since 2001. His aim: to pick a spot and faithfully re-create the late and
much lamented Waterloo Brewing Co.

Chip McElroy, who will be at the festival, too, may not have time to miss his
head brewer, scrambling as he is to keep up with demand for his Live Oak Pilz
and Big Bark amber lager. McElroy is trying to brew enough draft beer to compete
with Real Ale Brewing Co., which is soon to be moving to a brand new, larger
brewery in Blanco, and St. Arnold Brewing Co. in Houston, one of the fastest
growing breweries of its size in the country.

The state's other micro, Great Grains Brewing Co. of Dallas, is expanding and
soon will be joined in Fort Worth by another micro, Rahr & Sons Brewery.

Knowing all of this, festival-goers might be excused for thinking they had
stepped into a full-blown Texas beer renaissance at the corner of West Fourth
and San Antonio streets.

"I don't know that we can't have as thriving a beer culture as they have in
Colorado or Oregon," McElroy says. "I think it has to do with the pride Texans
have. They like their Texas stuff. They like Texas beer. Texans like full
flavored beers."

The rise and fall of microbrews

Step away from the beer tent and McElroy's heady assessment of Texas beer
culture becomes as cloudy as Live Oak's wheat beer, called Hefe-Weizen.

Brock Wagner, the founder and brewmaster at St. Arnold's, as ardent a champion
of good beer as there is in Texas, keeps a running tally of the state's
breweries in his database. Over the past decade, 16 microbreweries -- those that
brew 15,000 barrels of beer or less in a year -- opened. Four remain. All four
regional and contract brewers, including the beloved, award-winning Celis
Brewery, are gone.

Altogether, Texas lost 31 brewpubs -- breweries that serve their beer only on
their premises. Houston once had 16 brewpubs; today it has two. Of the remaining
24 brewpubs in the state, seven are in Dallas, which has lost five, and six are
in Austin, where two have disappeared. San Antonio has one, Fort Worth none.

Make no mistake: Texans love beer. Roughly 17 million barrels of beer are sold
each year in Texas, according to the Texas Comptroller's Office. At 31 gallons
to the barrel, that works out, in rough numbers, to 25 gallons or 11 cases of
beer a year for every single one of the 20.9 million people in Texas. Quaffers
here drank a little more than 9 percent of the 179.4 million barrels of beer
sold in the United States in 2003, according to Association of Brewers
statistics. Texas is second among the states behind California in total beer
consumption. Texans are in the top 10 for beer consumption per capita.

What these Texan per capitas drink, overwhelmingly, is industrial beer. While
precise numbers for the state are hard to come by, it's a safe bet that at least
half of those 17 million barrels of beer drunk in Texas were made by
Anheuser-Busch, because the St. Louis brewing giant owns half of the entire
American beer market, according to the 2004 report by Modern Brewery Age.
Another 30 percent of the overall market is shared by Miller Brewing Co. and
Coors, the report says.

To give some perspective, Anheuser-Busch sold 101.5 million barrels of beer last
year. Spoetzl Brewing Co., maker of local favorite Shiner Bock, sold 265,259
barrels of beer. St. Arnold sold 7,208 barrels of beer. And if an early sales
surge continues throughout this year, McElroy says Live Oak might hit sales of
2,000 barrels.

Taken together, the 28 micros and brewpubs in the entire state of Texas brew
fewer than 30,000 barrels of beer a year. In the state of Oregon, where the
trend took firm root 20 years ago, craft breweries command more than 10 percent
of the overall beer market. Nationally, craft beer represented 3.3 percent of
the market in 2003. In Texas it's about two-tenths of one percent.

"We are always going to be a Bud Light state to a certain extent," Wagner says.
"The culture here in Texas is wanting to be viewed as cowboy, a rancher, one
step up from a roughneck. Drive a pickup truck and drink a long neck. Craft beer
doesn't fit the image."

Tailored to Texas palettes

Craft brewers here have been buffeted by the natural climate as well as the
social kind. Every craft brewing center in the country -- Portland, Seattle and
Denver, to name three -- comes with a change of seasons that includes cold
weather. California is a wonderful place for craft beer, but until just recently
it flourished only in chilly northern California. Texas is a western outpost for
a band of states that craft-brewing observers once considered a wasteland.

To a brewer, the choice of what craft beers to brew here has always depended on
the palate of the typical Texas beer drinker. Live Oak, for instance, has
devoted most of its attention to its pilsner, a light bodied, hoppy lager beer,
an amber lager called Big Bark and a beer brewed with wheat, a grain that gives
beer a lighter body than barley. Real Ale's flagship beers, pale, brown and rye
ale are all lighter styles. St. Arnold's Amber is, by far, the brewery's biggest
seller.

McElroy states as a matter of fact what craft brewers in other parts of the
country would be loath to suggest: "Our particular choice of beers to brew were
good ones for the Texas heat. Beer drinkers here aren't always interested in
drinking the heaviest, thickest, hoppiest beers," he says.

Unlike some parts of the country, where there were no alternatives to the major
brewers before the micros, Texans have always had Shiner. No one, even among the
brewers at Spoetzl consider Shiner Bock a true German bock beer. Still, craft
brewers here are encouraged that as far back as the 1970s Central Texas beer
drinkers embraced a dark-colored, little-advertised beer.

The popularity of Shiner may also have discouraged some from going into the
business of beer. Now, Texas has always been a center for homebrewing, according
to Paul Gatza, director of the Association of Brewers in Boulder, Co. The annual
Bluebonnet Banquet in Arlington, with 900 entries, is the biggest homebrewing
competition of its kind in the country, he says. The Dixie Cup in Houston, with
more than 700 entries, isn't far behind.

Making the leap to commercial brewing in Texas was also hindered by liquor laws
shaped by the repeal of Prohibition and by the conservative religious bent in
the state. As a result, brewpubs, which were often the incubators for
microbreweries elsewhere, were outlawed in Texas until just 10 years ago. Texas
experienced a brewpub explosion just like the rest of the country during the
1990s, only to experience a collapse when the economy tanked in the new
millennium. A year into the new decade, the first brewpub in Texas, Waterloo
Brewing, closed.

The funny thing was, despite the shakeout across the country, overall sales of
craft beer continued to grow. Not the 20 percent and 30 percent growth of years
in the 1980s and 1990s, but craft beer sales have increased for 34 consecutive
years, Gatza says. This in an overall industry stagnant for a generation. The
numbers that matter to Texas craft brewers are these: a 17 percent increase for
St. Arnold, a 16 percent increase for Real Ale and a 10 percent increase for
Live Oak in 2003 over the previous year.

The key to the survival and the growth of breweries like St. Arnold was
establishing an identity in their communities, without much advertising, by
offering beers of quality and consistency, beers regular customers depended on
and recommended. Brewers like Wagner stress the craft  in craft beer. Many of
his former colleagues, to their profound disappointment, stressed the wealth in
brewing.

"We've come to the end of the time when people chased this for all of the wrong
reasons," Wagner says. "I believe the industry needed a cooling off. Right now,
I think craft beer is in as a good a shape as it's been, ever, here in Texas."

Live Oak is brewing as much beer as it can sell. McElroy knows that to grow he
must install a bottling line so he can sell Live Oak in stores. But bottling, he
says, would double his sales and Live Oak simply could not brew enough beer to
fill the bottles, a pleasant dilemma for a small brewer.

Real Ale secured a capital fund grant from the state Department of Agriculture
to get sewer and water service to a new brewing plant off Highway 281 in Blanco,
founder Brad Farbstein says. In exchange, the brewer has promised to double his
workforce over the next three years from six to 12 employees. Brewing at
capacity now, with prospects of selling more than the 2,400 barrels of beer they
made last year, Farbstein is convinced every one of those new employees will be
needed.

"The potential for the Texas market is huge," Farbstein says. "I really do think
people are looking for quality more than quantity."

Even as he packed up the brewing equipment, Anderson says there was no question
he would one day bring back Waterloo. The time is right now, he says.

"You can feel it," Anderson says, pulling on a pint of beer at the Gingerman.
"The economy is back. People are going out more. At the Craft Brewer's
Conference I went to in San Diego not too long ago the energy was the highest
I've seen in 10 years."

Rob Cartwright, a homebrewer since he was 14, has been dreaming of opening his
own microbrewery for a decade. After meeting Amy in 2000, they began seriously
planning for it. The brewery shakeout has been good to the Cartwrights,
providing at auctions brewery equipment selling at 10 cents on the dollar. "What
some people saw as pessimism, we saw as opportunity," he says.

As they hoarded brewing equipment, watched their budget and bided their time,
the Cartwrights founded the Texas Society for Brewing. The nonprofit society and
its Web page are devoted to educating people about craft beer. What better way
to educate, the Cartwrights thought, than to bring brewers together in one place
so people could sample many different styles of beer and talk to the brewers
about them. Last year, the Cartwrights inaugurated the Texas Craft Brewers
Festival.

More than 2,000 people attended the first festival. Every drop of beer -- 65
half-barrels of it -- from eight different brewers was gone. This year, the
festival added two more breweries, Jaxon's Restaurant & Brewing Co. all the way
from El Paso and Independence Brewing Co., their own. The timing, they say,
could not be better.

"What the festival last year showed us was there is a huge degree of latent,
untapped interest in craft beer," Amy Cartwright says. "I can't tell you what it
will be like to pour our own beers there. For us, Independence embodies the
spirit of Texas, the dream of going off on your own and trying something. We're
finally going to do it."

mlisheron@statesman.com; 445-3663

(from box)

The Texas Craft Brewers Festival runs from noon to 10 p.m. Saturday on W. Fourth
Street at San Antonio Street. Admission is free. $10 buys a tasting cup and five
tokens redeemable for samples of beer. Additional tasting tokens will be on
sale. For more information go to http://www.txbrewersfestival.com/

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At its Blanco facility, Real Ale Brewing Co. is churning out beer at
full speed. From left, Angus Shuurman, Tim Schwartz and Chris Nuez stand at the
production line.
Mack Hardman packages bottles of Real Ale at the Blanco brewery. The Central
Texas beer maker saw a production increase of 16 percent for 2003.
Real Ale founder Brad Farbstein, left, with Tim Schwartz atop the brewery's new
brewhouse vessels, doubled the size of the company's work force.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              54 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 19, 2004 Wednesday

2 sets of chefs to work on next school recipe

BYLINE: Ben Wear, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1319 words


The governor had a plan that nobody wanted to pass. The House had a plan but
passed something else. And the Senate had a plan that it couldn't pass.

The special session on school finance and taxation that spawned all those failed
plans passed into history Monday. And with no obvious prospect of legislative
cohesion in sight, Gov. Rick Perry agreed with Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and House
Speaker Tom Craddick that chaining lawmakers to their desks for an immediate
second 30-day special session would not be a productive exercise.

But Perry, Dewhurst and Craddick will continue to seek a solution in the
traditional governmental fashion, by forming a committee. Or, in this case, two
committees.

The three state leaders announced Monday that two 12-member study groups of
legislators, each with six senators and six House members, will look at school
reform and revenue elements from the plans and try to find specific common
ground. Dewhurst and Craddick are expected to name the panel members today.

The idea is that when those lawmakers reach agreement on a package that Perry
can live with, the governor will call everybody back to Austin to slam-dunk it
through to passage.

The two panels probably won't meet before next week. When they do get together,
their raw material will be the three plans and the reactions to various pillars
of those plans by their colleagues, Perry, lobbyists, school superintendents and
trustees, and even public polls.

What they'll be working with are policy proposals that ranged from the widely
accepted to the broadly reviled. They include:

* Cutting school property taxes. If the Legislature passes a school finance
bill, this will be in it. The only question is how deep to cut.

The average property tax rate for operations and maintenance among the state's
1,037 school districts is $1.48 per $100 of taxable value, and this year 495
districts are at the legal maximum of $1.50. Perry wanted to split the property
tax rolls in two, setting different rates for commercial and residential
property. That idea has no support in the Legislature.

Lawmakers seemed comfortable with setting the rate at about $1 per $100 of
value. But that would require finding about $5 billion a year in other tax or
fee revenue to replace it.

Oddly enough, given the near-universal support for such a cut, a Texas Poll
released this week showed a statistically even split between those who think
property taxes are fair or unfair.

Prospects: Excellent.

* Setting a statewide property tax levy and ending the share-the-wealth finance
system. School groups didn't like this. The distinction between sending your
school tax to the state or to the local tax assessor-collector may sound
artificial from the taxpayer's point of view. But educators say it would sever
an important bond between school districts and their communities.

Some lawmakers said the real complaint is that making property taxes statewide,
which would require voter approval of a constitutional amendment, would
eliminate the primary mechanism that districts use to sue the state for equity
in school finance.

Prospects: Not so good.

* Legalizing slot machines. Allowing pari-mutuel tracks and Indian tribes to
install slot machines was a part of Perry's and the Senate's plans. But Perry's
plan was defeated unanimously in the House, and the real-world support for the
Senate plan was never tested by a committee or floor vote. And Sen. Jane Nelson,
R-Lewisville, vowed to stage a filibuster if a bill came to the floor with slots
in it.

In the House, there were at least 60 members opposed to slots in a procedural
vote during the debate over its plan. But passing proposed amendments to the
constitution requires a two-thirds vote in each chamber. That's 100 votes in the
House, or, to put it another way, no more than 50 "no" votes. Thus, for the
House to approve slots down the road, at least 10 of those opponents would have
to change their minds.

Attempts to make that happen, principally by allowing slots at other venues such
as Houston's Astrodome and Reunion Arena in Dallas, were under way when the
session ran aground.

Prospects: Poor.

* Increasing taxes on businesses. Given that the income tax is politically off
limits, this is the most fertile source of big money to replace lost property
taxes, and both the House and Senate showed a willingness to dig fairly deep
there. Not Perry, however.

A House committee signed off on a payroll tax, to be paid by employers rather
than the workers, of 1.25 percent or $500 a year per employee, whichever is
less. And the Senate plan reportedly would have expanded the state corporate
franchise tax to take in all corporations (some legally evade it now) and most
partnerships.

Perry's plan included only a modest expansion of the franchise tax, bringing in
most corporations by closing two legal loopholes. He has spoken often about his
distaste for taxes that might hurt the state's business climate. Asked Monday if
the House and Senate support for broader business taxes has caused him to take a
different stance, Perry didn't resort to nuance. "No," he said.

Prospects: Cloudy

* Raising the sales tax. Democrats don't like this. But the final House plan
increased the state sales tax from 6.25 percent to 7 percent (local governments
already can tack on an additional 2 percent), and the Senate proposal reportedly
would have taken it to 6.75 percent. Perry's plan had no sales tax increase, but
he has indicated flexibility in this area. Neither chamber greatly expanded the
reach of the tax.

Prospects: Good.

* Tobacco tax increase. Everyone had this in their plan; it's just a question of
degree. Perry and the House would raise the tax on most cigarettes by a dollar a
pack, and the Senate plan has an increase half that size.

Prospects: Excellent.

* Incentive pay for teachers. Everyone involved supports putting $1 billion or
more of new money each year into schools and making sure the gap between money
spent on children in the richest and poorest districts is narrow.

That's not the case on incentive pay for teachers. Both the House and Senate
plans, and Perry's plan, included incentive packages in varying amounts.
Democrats and some education groups are not thrilled with this element,
preferring that any state aid for compensating educators go into base pay. But
Republicans are in charge.

Prospects: Excellent.

bwear@statesman.com; 445-3698

(from box)

Comparing the plans

Perry plan      Final House bill    Senate plan

Property tax cut                     Yes                 Yes              Yes

Split tax roll                            Yes                 No          No

Statewide property tax         Yes *               No                     Yes

Slot machines                       Yes                  No               Yes

Payroll tax                              No                   No **       Yes
***

Closing of franchise

tax loopholes                         Yes                  No             Yes

Expansion of franchise tax   No                   No                      Yes

Increase in sales tax rate      No                   Yes                  Yes

Incentives for teachers          Yes                 Yes                  Yes

Tobacco tax increase           Yes                 Yes                    Yes

$1 fee on entertainment

tickets                                     No                   Yes      No

Adult entertainment tax         Yes                 No                    No

Cap on property

appraisal growth                   Yes                  Yes
Unclear

* Only for business property.

** The bill passed in committee had a payroll tax, but it was removed before the
bill reached the House floor because of Gov. Rick Perry's opposition.

*** An expanded franchise tax in the Senate bill reportedly would have included
taxing employers based on their payroll as well as on profits.

Source: Staff research

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst: He and House speaker due to name panel members
today.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              56 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 27, 2004 Sunday

What will we do when the oil wells run dry?;
End of petroleum-based energy is closer than thought, authors argue

BYLINE: Bruce Hight, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1548 words


How often have you been seized with a sudden urge to get some ice cream at
Amy's, or to drink a cafe au lait at Starbucks, or maybe needed a carton of milk
for tomorrow's breakfast? You then jumped into your SUV or sedan and satisfied
the need.

It's an ordinary act performed millions of times a day by Americans. But
consider: You get into a vehicle weighing well over a ton and move it, say, a
mile to pick up something that weighs a few ounces or, at most, a few pounds.
Then, the need met, you move that ton-plus vehicle another mile to return home.

Americans do it every day because they have terrific technology that can move
them almost anywhere quickly and gasoline so cheap that, per gallon, it costs
much less than bottled water, soft drinks, milk -- even a cafe au lait.

But the day is coming  -- and probably sooner than anyone would like to think --
when you will think very, very hard before making such a casual drive, because
the cost of gasoline is destined to rise steadily, far more quickly than
inflation.

That's the message in two well-argued books released recently that warn we are
living in the twilight age of petroleum-based energy. True, gasoline prices have
slid back from the $2 mark. But even if the clouds have parted for now, the
petroleum sun is past noon and falling in the western sky.

The authors of these two books are not radical environmentalists pushing an
agenda or tabloid alarmists.

"Out of Gas: The End of the Age of Oil" is written by David Goodstein, vice
provost and physics professor at the California Institute of Technology. He is a
proponent of nuclear energy, though he warns that the long-term supply of usable
uranium is also limited (a message some might welcome). He dedicates his book to
"our children and grandchildren, who will not inherit the riches that we
inherited."

The other book, "The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World," is by
Paul Roberts, who writes on business and environmental issues and is a regular
contributor to Harper's magazine.

His 332-page overview of our energy supply situation, and its relationship with
the environment, is thorough, balanced and clear. His highly readable,
jargon-free study considers the virtues and vices of each type of energy source:
petroleum, natural gas, coal, renewable, nuclear, hydrogen. Roberts also
explains the significance of the continued use of fossil fuels -- oil, natural
gas and coal -- on the environment and their effect on human life. Roberts
doesn't hype the energy problem with scary scenarios; the facts alone should
worry us.

Goodstein's book turns on the significance of "Hubbert's Peak." M. King Hubbert,
a geophysicist working for Shell Oil Co., in 1956 evaluated oil production data
and trends and predicted that oil produced by U.S. wells would peak by 1970 and
then decline. He was mocked, but events proved him right; U.S. oil production
peaked in 1970 and has dropped steadily since. Production peaked in Texas in
1972.

Hubbert's Peak is significant, Goodstein and others say, because that is when
the world's critical energy problem will begin -- not when the oil runs out.
Once production peaks and begins to decline, the contest will be on. Prices will
be bid up and up and up, and, if nations get desperate enough, they will go to
war to secure a supply of petroleum.

Of course, oil-based life in the United States went on after 1970, despite
supply disruptions, because the decline here was offset by greater production in
the rest of the world, particularly the gargantuan supply of easily accessible
oil in the Middle East, especially Saudi Arabia.

And as Roberts acknowledges, there is more oil to be found. But all the easily
found oil has been located, and oil companies must drill in ever more difficult
and remote areas -- even the ocean depths -- to find the stuff. So as the demand
for more oil increases (General Motors recently announced a $3 billion campaign
in China to sell more cars, and there are about four times more Chinese than
Americans), prices will go up, pushed along by rising drilling costs as well as
rising demand.

So, when will world oil production peak? Optimists say probably not until later
this century, no sooner than 2035. But Goodstein says the data indicate the
production peak could come much sooner -- in this decade: "We, or our children,
or our grandchildren face some very difficult times."

Roberts isn't sure the peak will come that soon, but when it comes, he warns,
things could get bad very quickly as energy prices begin rising and nations feel
compelled to grab all the oil they can while they can.

We may get a preview, he warns, once production of oil by nations outside the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries peaks and if supply from OPEC
nations is jeopardized or curbed by political upheaval. Roberts notes that the
"last three times oil production dropped off a cliff -- the Arab oil embargo of
1974, the Iranian revolution in 1979, and the 1991 Persian Gulf War -- the
resulting price spikes pushed the world into recession."

At this point, the most devout of free market believers say, so what? The market
will respond.

Well, the market responds to drops in supply by boosting prices, and we've just
seen how a relatively small increase disturbs the American public. What happens
if it goes to $3, $4 or $5 a gallon? But it's not just the gasoline price that
goes up; the higher price is reflected in the cost of goods and services that
used gasoline and other petroleum products to reach the consumer. At what point
does it become too expensive to drive to the store to buy that carton of milk,
or to commute 15 miles each way to work every day?

Roberts and Goodstein say the problem will be much more than coping with rising
fuel prices, because the market can't provide what doesn't exist. The fact is,
no cheap alternative to gasoline and other petroleum-derived products exists and
none is on the horizon. Roberts says the most promising alternative for motor
vehicles for now is the hybrid gasoline engine and electric motor cars. But in
the long run, the answer may be hydrogen-powered fuel cells, although a car
industry based on hydrogen is at least two decades away -- assuming the
technological problems are solved.

Still, there's plenty of electricity for homes and offices, right? After all,
the world has abundant supplies of coal and quite a bit of natural gas.

The problem with coal is that it, like oil and natural gas, is a fossil fuel
that pumps carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, where it has been accumulating
for a couple of centuries, trapping ever more heat that otherwise would radiate
into space. All around the world are reports of melting glaciers and rising
coast lines.

A group of British climate experts warned in a government-sponsored report
issued last month that as many as 4 million Britons may lose their homes to
rising waters around the island nation by 2050. But we don't have the technology
to keep carbon released by burning coal from escaping into the atmosphere.

Roberts does not fault the United States for refusing to sign the flawed Kyoto
treaty, which was intended to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. But he argues for
some type of tax on carbon emissions from fossil fuels to reflect their true
costs to civilization, and he describes efforts to solve the emissions problem.
He says solar and wind power can make major contributions to future energy needs
but will never carry the energy load by themselves.

Roberts and Goodstein see natural gas as a "bridge fuel" to power the world for
two or three decades between the decline of oil and the adoption of something
else -- if something else can be developed.

But natural gas, like oil, is increasingly found in remote places and will get
more expensive; this month, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved
construction of a $500 million complex near Freeport, about 70 miles south of
Houston, to handle 200 ships a year importing liquefied natural gas.

Both authors also say that our technology must become ever more efficient, that
is, do the same or even more work using less energy. One example of that is the
hybrid gas-electric motor, which can get twice the mileage of a comparable
internal combustion engine fueled by gasoline.

Even nuclear energy could contribute, if some of its problems, especially waste
storage, could be solved. What is not needed, Roberts says, is an energy policy
built on more tax breaks to keep the oil industry looking for more petroleum,
which is President Bush's approach.

What the world faces, Roberts writes, is "a slow-motion calamity. For a few
decades, at least, the tougher decisions can wait." But any delay, he said,
"terrifies me" because the technologies needed by 2030 require us to start now.

Rather than start that effort now, however, both presidential candidates have
appeared much more worried about keeping gasoline prices low. More likely than
starting now to prepare for change, we will leave it to some future blue ribbon
commission to determine why the nation failed to do anything about energy
supplies when there was still time.

bhight@statesman.com; 445-3977

(box)

David

Goodstein

W.W. Norton & Co., $21.95

The End of

Oil: On the

Edge of a

Perilous

New World

Paul Roberts

Houghton Mifflin Co., $26

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gas is still relatively inexpensive in the United States. But there
will come a day, the authors of two new books on the dwindling supply of oil
argue, when filling up your tank becomes prohibitively expensive.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              57 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday

CHAIRMAN OFTHE BOARD;
From his Wimberley home, Rupert Neve's name continues to resound across the
recording industry

BYLINE: Michael Corcoran, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 2349 words


WIMBERLEY -- The guy on the phone said he needed to have his videocassette
recorder fixed, as soon as possible. "But we don't do that sort of work," a man
with a stately English accent answered.

The fellow with the broken VCR persisted. "C'mon, man, give me a price. There's
a show tonight I need to tape."

Realizing that this conversation wouldn't easily end, Rupert Neve came up with a
figure and said, "Well, our going rate is a thousand dollars an hour."

"A thousand dollars!" the man exclaimed. "Why, I could buy 10 brand new VCRs for
that much."

"Very well, then," Neve replied, and the man hung up, unaware that he'd been
talking to a music industry legend who's the father of the modern recording
console -- that behemoth board with hundreds of knobs and faders that dominates
studio control rooms.

The Neve name is to studio owners and engineers what the Titleist brand is to
golfers and the Hasselblad name is to photographers. It's the gold standard, a
synonym for craftsmanship and durability.

But even some of his best friends in Wimberley don't know exactly what it is
that the well-spoken Brit with the wry sense of humor does. They ask him to
recommend a good stereo, unaware that some of the most glorious music that would
come out of its speakers has been made more pleasant by his touch.

"From a technical aspect, there's no one more important to the recording
industry than Rupert Neve," says Fred Remmert, whose Cedar Creek studio in South
Austin sports a custom vintage Neve. "He's our Mozart."

In 1997, Neve received a special merit Grammy award for "outstanding technical
significance to the recording field." In 1999, he was named "Man of the Century"
by the Mix Magazine trade publication. And yet his company, ARN Consultants, is
listed in the Wimberley phone book under "electronics."

This quaint Hill Country town (population 3,700) is an unlikely home for the
77-year-old Brit who ran a public address system for Winston Churchill in the
'40s, designed the earliest bookshelf speakers in the '50s and pioneered massive
mixing consoles in the '60s and '70s that are still wildly valued today.

"I was floored when I heard that Rupert Neve had moved to Wimberley (10 years
ago)," says Billy Stull, who runs a mastering studio in the town 35 miles
southwest of Austin. "It's like being a mathematician and having Albert Einstein
move into the neighborhood."

The road to Wimberley

On Sunday, July 4, it was Neve's turn to lead the seniors Bible study class at
the First Baptist Church of Wimberley. "Nobody knows the Bible better than
Rupert," says class leader Sue Baker. As he pins on his name tag, Neve says, "We
know each other very well." The group of about 40 also regularly meets socially.
"This is so we don't forget our own names."

Before he steps up to the podium, Rupert and Evelyn, his wife of 53 years, chat
with fellow parishioners.  "I heard you brought your guests to Miss Mae's
Bar-B-Q," says one man, referring to a group from Shanghai-based SE Electronics,
in town the week before to talk to Neve about designing a new line of
microphones.

Neve's talk weaves Patrick Henry's defiant "give me liberty or give me death"
speech of 1775 with Old Testament narratives concerning the prophet Elisha, who
put himself in danger by anointing Jehu the new king of Israel. "Sometimes we
have to take an aggressive action and risk the consequences," Neve says, closing
his binder full of notes. "Be bold."

Neve discovered Wimberley when he came to visit a friend there in 1980. "When I
got back to England, I told Evelyn, 'If we ever move to the States, I found the
perfect little place,' " Neve says. "Wimberley is a lovely part of the world,
with a clean river and hills and rocks all around. Plus, the people are
amazingly friendly." The couple, whose five grown children live in England and
Spain, bought an unassuming house on a couple acres near the banks of the Blanco
River in 1994.

Rupert Neve was raised in Argentina, the son of missionaries, and his wife grew
up in British India (now Pakistan), where her father was a schoolmaster, so they
prefer the heat of Texas to the constant cold drizzle of England. They also
prefer the enterprising climate of their new home country to the more socialist
stature of the heavily taxed United Kingdom.

Financially secure with nothing left to prove, Rupert Neve still puts in 50-hour
weeks at his one-room workshop, where he hands designs to two technicians who
assemble and test them. In the past couple years, Neve has entered the musical
instrument field for the first time, designing a pre-amp for Taylor acoustic
guitars.

An inventor without an off switch, Neve's mind is always at work. "Once when I
was on vacation with Evelyn in Spain, I had an idea on the beach and started
drawing schematics (circuit designs) on the wet sand and photographing them," he
says with a laugh. "My work is my hobby."

A self-taught electrical wiz, Neve started building radios as a hobby at age 13
in Buenos Aires. He made it a business a few years later when World War II broke
out and radios stopped coming from U.S. manufacturers. Neve was able to buy the
components and build radios that he sold to stores in Argentina. "Even as a boy,
my product had to sound better than everybody else's," he says. "I'd listen for
hours and tinker with all sorts of ways to reduce the distortion."

At 17 he joined the British Army and sailed to England. After the war, Neve used
a small inheritance to buy a U.S. Army ambulance and converted it into a mobile
recording and public address system. When Churchill gave a policy speech in
Neve's hometown of Plymouth, Neve ran the PA system and pressed a 78 rpm
recording of the speech, which was distributed to radio stations all over the
world.

He met Evelyn through his sister -- "sparks flew straight away" -- but when he
asked her father for permission to marry her, the old man said he didn't see
much future in the PA system business. "You can't support my daughter in a style
she's accustomed to on that kind of money," he said -- so Neve moved to London
and got a job designing transformers. The owner of the company also manufactured
enormous loudspeaker units. "The thinking then was that quality speakers had to
be huge," Neve says. Neve designed a unit that was just as powerful, but at
about a quarter of the size.

When the company balked on manufacturing the bookcase speakers, the Neves formed
their own company, CQ Audio, in 1957. Evelyn Neve handled the business end,
leaving Rupert Neve free to design.

The fledgling company struggled; there was no money to pay mounting bills. Even
worse, the Neves' infant son, John, was rejecting his mother's milk and was in
danger of dying of malnutrition. "I wondered what my parents would have done,"
Rupert Neve says. "They would have prayed -- and so at about 3 a.m. one night I
fell to my knees and said, 'If you're really out there, please do something.' In
that instant, I could sense that someone was listening."

Although his parents were missionaries, Rupert Neve "grew up a grandson of God,
not a son of God," he says. "I thought religion was for the old, the weak. I
didn't need God in my life. But in that moment of clarity at 3 a.m., I realized
that I'd been given a gift. I'm not educated. Nobody taught me how to do what I
do. From that day forward I've never forgotten that I owe everything to God's
grace. There's no other way to explain it."

The Neves' son recovered after switching to a nondairy product. A couple years
later, the business really took off when Neve developed one of the first
studio-quality sound mixers for classical composer Desmond Lesley, who was using
a room full of tape recorders in front of various instruments and needed a
device that would balance the sounds together to make a master tape.

The advent of the British pop scene provided a boom for the business, which was
now called the Neve Co. In 1961, Neve built two consoles for London's Recorded
Sound Ltd. -- one for the studio and the other to record remotes for Radio
Luxembourg. Neve also built a reputation for producing robust consoles.

He recalls a recent visit to a radio station in Singapore, which owned a console
Neve built in 1967. "I went to fiddle with it and they said 'Don't touch it!' I
said 'Why not?' and they said it was being used on the air at the moment."

Reliability was foremost in Neve's mind, he says. "I was terrified of having an
equipment failure in the middle of a recording session or a radio program."

A '70s roll

Prominently placed on a living room wall in the Neves' home in Wimberley is an
overhead shot of an old church rectory in Cambridge. "This is the place where a
lot of things started," says Evelyn Neve.

The couple and their five children lived in the 27-room building from 1964 to
1975. At the start, the Neves had three employees and Rupert Neve worked out of
the carriage house. By 1973, the company, then called Rupert Neve International,
had 500 employees worldwide with factories in England and Scotland.

In the '70s,  Neve consoles became synonymous with a warm, rich, organic sound.
"You listen to 'Dark Side of the Moon' (the Pink Floyd classic recorded at Abbey
Road in 1972) and you know it could only have been produced with a Neve board,"
says Chris "Frenchy" Smith, who owns the Bubble studio in East Austin.

Needing an infusion of capital and wanting to concentrate on design, Neve sold
his company in 1975 to ESE, a corporation that made its money primarily in oil
exploration. The Neves were paid mainly in company stock, and since the stock
plummeted to pennies on the dollar, they virtually gave the company away.

Creatively, however, Rupert Neve was on a roll. Before selling the company, he
designed the first automated console, which stored and recalled the sliding
fader positions, saving producers hours of time per session. In January 1976,
Beatles producer George Martin stopped by Neve's studio to try out this new
"moving fader automation," as Neve's new product was called. "We thought he
might stop by for a couple hours, but he was mixing until late in the night,"
Neve recalls. The next day Martin sent a note: "How soon can I have one?"

Some would say that Neve's peak period was the 1970s, but Neve isn't one of
them.

"It's very frustrating to find myself in the position of having to compete with
myself to make a living," he says. During his '70s renaissance period, Neve
battled American-made API consoles for market share. These days, studio owners
have to decide whether to shell out half a million dollars for the Neve-designed
AMEK 9098, with its pristine audio signal path, or a Neve monster board from the
'70s. "I see some of the old consoles go for up to $600,000, three times more
than they originally cost, but I don't see a dime when they change hands," says
Neve, who gets a small royalty rate on the sale of each AMEK board.

"Rupert's a funny man about his old consoles," says Remmert. "He's like an
artist who's still making records and doesn't want to always be reminded about
the songs he cut 30 years ago." When Remmert showed off his 1972 Neve console to
the man who designed and built it, Neve told him that he should sell it while it
still had value and buy one of his new boards.

"The 9098 (which launched in 1993) re-established Rupert as one of the top audio
designers in the world," says Mark Hallman, who owns the Congress House Studio
in South Austin.

Austin audio engineer Mark McQuilken of FMR Audio, who has assisted Neve in
several projects, says Neve has a reputation for being as much an artist as a
scientist. "His passion for sound and music and his creative flair set him apart
from other technologists."

Spoon drummer Jim Eno, who has a recently restored 1969 Neve console in his home
studio, says the Neve appeal is in the way "a Neve board colors the sound
pleasantly and adds to the musicality. It's the difference between a photograph
and a painting. The painting is fuller, deeper and ultimately more satisfying."

To Neve, such "coloring" is just distortion that his old boards weren't good
enough to lower.

Science and

spirituality

As someone whose lifelong quest has been to reproduce as pure a sound as
possible, Neve is not a fan of CDs. "Basically, the digital system chops up the
analog signal into a lot of little pieces and stores it in a digital process.
Each of these steps has a switch, a click which is processed in the region above
human hearing," he says. "But, in fact, the human perception is capable of
receiving signals way, way beyond audibility. The Japanese have done studies
that show that when you listen to incomplete sound, the brain starts to generate
the same electric frequencies that are associated with anger and frustration."

Acknowledging that the digital system does have superior capabilities of storage
and delivery, Neve's next product, coming out on the Legendary Audio company he
formed with Stull, is a mastering unit that uses the best of each system,
filtering the digital signal through an analog (tape) process. The Masterpiece,
which will sell for $15,000 per unit, will be unveiled at the Audio Engineer
Society convention in October.

The unavoidable coexistence of digital and analog in the recording industry
mirrors the way science and spirituality have intertwined in Neve's life. Even
during their busiest period, when their company was achieving worldwide renown,
Rupert and Evelyn Neve initiated the Cambridge Radio Course in 1973 to train
Christian broadcasters.

It was one of his former Cambridge radio tutors whom Neve had visited in
Wimberley in 1980. Fourteen years later, Rupert and Evelyn Neve would move to
this "lovely part of the world" themselves. In 2002, they would become U.S.
citizens. When Rupert Neve tells the senior Sunday schoolers that what may seem
an infinity of coincidences is the Lord working in mysterious ways, he's telling
his story.

This unassuming genius, who balances simple pleasures with complex designs, is
exactly where he's supposed to be, as unlikely as the destination may seem.

mcorcoran@statesman.com; 445-3652

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rupert Neve, who works as an audio design consultant in Wimberley, is
well-respected in the music industry for his work designing mixing consoles.
Neve, right, works with technical assistant Michael Glass at Neve's one-room
workshop in Wimberley. 'My work is my hobby,' Neve says. The former Briton moved
to the Central Texas town 10 years ago.
When Evelyn and Rupert Neve started their own company in 1957, she took care of
the business details so he could concentrate on designing. Today, the couple
have settled comfortably into Wimberley.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              58 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 13, 2004 Tuesday

Freescale's offering expected Thursday;
Shares of Motorola's former chip unit will debut in a market that is growing
cool to new stocks

BYLINE: STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 555 words


Freescale Semiconductor Inc. is expected to go public Thursday, seeking to raise
as much as $2.7 billion in an active but somewhat cool market for new stock.

The Austin-based chip operations of Motorola Inc. will be one of the three
highest-profile stock offerings this week, along with Domino's Pizza Inc. and
Blackridge Investment Corp., an investment fund affiliated with buyout firm
Blackstone Group LP, Bloomberg News Service reported.

Freescale isn't commenting on any aspect of its offering, including the date.
But Bloomberg and other IPO monitoring services have said the stock sale will
happen Thursday.

So far this year, 87 U.S. companies have raised more than $16.2 billion with
initial stock offerings, compared with just 68 issues worth $15 million in all
of 2003, according to Renaissance Capital. Twelve more companies are on deck
this week.

But the days of dizzying first-day gains are gone. The average first-day
increase in price for a new stock this year is just 14 percent, and the
longer-term return is 7 percent.

Additionally, Freescale is going out at a time when some of the bloom is off
tech issues. Several companies have warned of lower than expected sales or
profit. And a Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst downgraded the chip industry Monday,
saying there were concerns about slack demand and oversupply.

But Freescale isn't the typical IPO candidate. It's not a startup backed by
investors who can postpone an offering until the climate improves.

Freescale's IPO plans are in large part dictated by its parent, Motorola, a
public company that has told its shareholders it will spin the company off. It
can't easily back down from that commitment.

Until it distributes Freescale shares to its own shareholders within a year,
Motorola will control 92 percent of Freescale's voting power and 70 percent of
the common stock.

Freescale has said it plans to sell 121.6 million shares between $17.50 and
$19.50 each. That will raise $2.4 billion. If underwriters -- who include J.P.
Morgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. -- exercise
their extra allotment, the total raised could rise to $2.7 billion.

There are plenty of IPOs in the pipeline. Companies have registered $47 billion
worth of initial offerings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
biggest backlog in four years, said Tom Fox, co-head of equity capital markets
in the United States at UBS AG.

"There is opportunity for similar volume and number of transactions in the
second half of the year as the first half of the year," Fox said.

He said the total raised in U.S. IPOs this year will amount to about $34
billion.

More activity doesn't mean higher prices. Domino's, the largest pizza delivery
company, said Monday night that it raised $337.4 million selling 24.1 million
shares at $14 each. That was below its projected range of $15 to $17. Motive
Inc., an Austin software company, raised $50 million on June 25, selling shares
at $10 each, below the $11 to $13 range it had anticipated.

"This is not a frenzy environment by any stretch of the imagination, where
anything you put out gets done," said Richard Hendrix, president of Friedman,
Billings, Ramsey Group Inc. in Arlington, Va. "It takes a high-quality
management team, a profitable business and a well-structured transaction to
complete an IPO."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              59 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 14, 2004 Wednesday

Gay aides to some in Congress being 'outed'

BYLINE: Bob Dart, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 659 words


WASHINGTON -- As a Senate vote nears on a constitutional amendment to ban
same-sex marriages, some gay rights activists are "outing" closeted homosexual
staffers who work for members of Congress who support the amendment.

"Frankly, we're giving as good as we get. If they want to have a debate on
family values, we'll have one," said John Aravosis, a political consultant and
gay activist. "They want to make us second-class citizens, and gay people are
aiding and abetting in the effort."

Michael Rogers, another leader in the outing campaign, said, "We're doing it to
expose hypocrisy."

However, the tactic is being denounced by other advocates of gay rights and
causing angst among some gay and lesbian workers on Capitol Hill who fear for
their jobs.

"It's not going to help the cause at all," said Lynden Armstrong, an aide to
Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., and a founder of the Gay and Lesbian Association of
Senate Staffers. "It's not going to change the minds of any member," because
members will vote to satisfy their constituents or their own convictions.

"Coming out is a very personal process that people go through," Armstrong said.
"It can be emotionally and psychologically difficult. . . . It is not fair that
they are doing this."

"We oppose using sexual orientation as a weapon," echoed Steven Fisher,
spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest gay rights group.

Aravosis and Rogers, conducting separate outing efforts, have targeted 20
congressional offices where they say key aides are closeted and where the
lawmakers support the amendment. They are exposing the aides on Internet sites
or through ads in gay community newspapers.

Aravosis is the national co-chairman of DearMary.com, which is named for Mary
Cheney, Vice President Dick Cheney's openly gay daughter who is working for the
Bush-Cheney campaign.

"We want to create a climate where the price of anti-gay prejudice is too high
for Congress," said Aravoris, a former staff lawyer for Sen. Ted Stevens,
R-Alaska. "I worked on the Hill over 20 years ago, and gay people are
everywhere. Unfortunately, too many of us are working for the enemy."

The amendment proposal seemed headed to defeat in a test vote last Wednesday.

"This issue is not going away," said Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist of
Tennessee, tacitly conceding defeat. "Will it be back? Absolutely, yes."

Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who helped lead amendment supporters during the floor
debate, got the support Tuesday of fellow Texas Republican Kay Bailey Hutchison.

"This is not about being anti-homosexual people. Not at all," she said. "But
what we don't want to have is the tearing down of traditional families . . .
that create the fabric of our society."

The proposal, backed by President Bush and many conservatives, declares that
marriage in the United States "shall consist only of a man and a woman" and that
neither the U.S. nor any state constitution "shall be construed to require that
marriage or the legal incidents thereof be conferred upon any union other than
the union of a man and a woman."

Although the outings have garnered some support in Washington's gay community, a
gay aide for a Republican senator supporting the amendment offers a different
view. The staffer, who asked not to be identified, said the outings have
diverted attention from the "real issue."

"We're focused on outing gay people when we ought to be outing the people who
are really doing damage to the institution of marriage," she said. How many
heterosexual members of Congress are divorced or having affairs? she wondered.

"The issue is marriage," she said. "It is difficult for me, as someone who has
always played by the rules, to be told that I'm less than a full person" and not
"eligible for the status of marriage."

The outings were also condemned by Christopher Barron, communications director
for Log Cabin Republicans, a gay GOP group.

"It's disappointing and not very helpful," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              61 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 31, 2004 Saturday

Thongs not wrong, schools rule;
Austin students can wear flip-flops, officials decide;
just don't try to go to class in a hat

BYLINE: Raven L. Hill, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 564 words


Austin school officials have flip-flopped on the issue of flip-flops.

On Friday, the district finalized the student and employee dress codes that take
effect when school starts Aug. 17 -- with one change.

The popular thong sandals, while still discouraged because of their slippery
soles, will not be outlawed, as students once feared.

They are still a no-no for teachers, however.

As for the other rules, slippers, baggy pants and strapless tops are out.

The district will also continue to forbid students to wear clothes that bear
"vulgar or obscene language" or that advertise the use of alcohol, tobacco or
drugs.

Caps and hats may not be worn inside campus buildings, except for religious
purposes, and shorts and skirts may not be so short that they cause distraction.

"Students must use good judgment to respect themselves and others and to
demonstrate modesty in selecting attire," Austin school Superintendent Pat
Forgione said in a prepared statement.

Staff apparel is subject to similar rules and provisions. Jeans may be worn only
on days designated by the principal or supervisor, including spirit days and
teacher in-service days.

The regulations will help faculty members serve as role models for students and
convey "community values about proper grooming and hygiene," Forgione said.

Exceptions to the employee dress code exist for those positions requiring a
uniform and for certain staff members, such as physical education teachers,
instructors in shop courses, and maintenance, custodial and food service
workers.

The push for a dress code came from a Community Safety Task Force formed shortly
after the on-campus slaying of Reagan High School sophomore Ortralla Mosley.
Task force members asked Forgione to work with principals, students and campus
advisory councils on measures to improve the overall climate in schools,
including the dress code, a character education program and a ban on students
leaving campus for lunch.

Now only seniors can leave for lunch. Students and parents must agree in writing
that the student will drive safely, refrain from using alcohol or drugs and
refuse rides to underclassmen trying to leave.

rhill@statesman.com; 445-3620

(from box)

At a glance

Austin school district dress code highlights

Students:

* No clothing deemed too baggy or too tight.

* No strapless, backless or low-cut tops or tops with spaghetti straps.

* No gang-associated clothing or colors.

* No hats or caps inside the building, except for religious reasons.

* No shorts or skirts that are short enough to be distracting.

* For elementary school students, no makeup or artificial nails.

* For middle and high school students, no pajama pants, boxers or athletic
shorts outside of physical education courses.

Employees:

* Jeans may be worn only on days designated by the principal.

* Caps and hats may be worn only for religious or medical reasons.

* Flip-flops and slippers are banned.

* Spandex and exercise clothes are banned.

* Male teachers must wear slacks and collared shirts, pullover sweaters or
turtlenecks with sport coats.

* Ties are encouraged and might be required by the principal.

* Female teachers cannot wear halter tops, see-through shirts or low necklines.

* Skirts must be long enough not to distract.

* No piercings other than ears.

* Exceptions will be made for physical education and shop teachers and support
staff.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A proposed rule banning flip-flops wasn't part of the final dress code
approved for Austin students. But teachers still can't wear them.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              67 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 21, 2004 Tuesday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 908 words


The Live Music Capital, summed up in a photograph

The "75,000 swarm ACL fest" picture on the front page of the Sept. 19
American-Statesman should become an icon for Austin as the Live Music Capital of
the World.   Congratulations to Jay Janner for a world-class photo and for you
at the  newspaper for recognizing it as such and sharing it with us. Hopefully,
we'll soon see this picture and more of Janner's work on Chamber of Commerce
publications, Web sites and Austin billboards. What a great advertisement for
Austin as the music capital of the world.

GARY NOPHSKER

Austin

Pastor a man of integrity

Re: Sept. 15 article, "Complaint filed against pastor who blessed gay unions":

My mother was a member of the committee that hired the Rev. Jim Rigby as the
minister for St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church many years ago.  She believed
whole-heartedly in his integrity, and she was right. Rigby holds the obviously
unpopular belief that everyone is welcome in God's church no matter their sexual
orientation.

Several years ago, before my mother passed away, a member of St. Andrews
approached her with great concern and said about Rigby, "Why, Jane, is he
allowing sinners into St. Andrews?"  My mother's reply was, "We are all sinners.
That's why we're at church."

TERI GARZA

Austin

Pastor should be honored

As a person who was "married" in April by the Rev. Jim Rigby at a celebration at
the University of Texas, I am deeply saddened by the charges brought against
him.

The person he "married" me to has been my partner for more than three years.
That ceremony, although not granting us any sort of legal protection, was one of
the most amazing moments of my life. I was standing with the person I love and
share my life with, and someone from a church was actually looking us in the
eyes and honoring our relationship.

Rigby's love and respect for all people should be honored and exalted in the
Presbyterian church, rather than criticized and used to punish him.

MARTI BIER

Austin

Austin Bay is wrong

In his most recent column, Austin Bay is breathtakingly deceitful and myopic
(Sept. 14, "In Iraq, we're fighting for our safety at home").

He first boasts that his family received special treatment from airport
security. Those security officers gave a free pass to some presumably white
women. This story does not comfort me; it angers me that my Muslim friends are
detained for hours on end by such "pros at reading people."

Then he conflates the recent Chechnya separatist killing with al Qaeda terrorism
and Iraqi resistance, which have nothing to do with one another. Vladimir Putin
lied to us and to his own people about the recent plane bombings and the school
killings and is exploiting this violence to put an effective end to democracy in
Russia.

Bay suggests that our Iraqi police training is succeeding, which is simply
wrong. Put to the test in Fallujah, the Iraqi police and army ceded control to
the insurgents. Our actions in Iraq are feeding our enemies, not starving them.

WILLIAM HUIE

Austin

Terrorists prefer Kerry

We will never get back to "normal" -- the terrorists have changed that forever.
Heaven forbid that John Kerry gets elected. Every terrorist in the world would
vote for him over President Bush if they could. They know who would give them
more resistance.

We will be fighting these child killers (by design, they kill children and use
them as shields) forever. The terrorists have no honor, and they hide behind
their religion as justification for what they do. I don't agree with a lot of
what the politicians are doing. Most politicians, including Bush, are
self-serving and have become too liberal with all the entitlement programs and
pork barrel projects. But Bush is our better choice.

BILL INDERLIED

Georgetown

Moderates squeezed out

It saddens me to watch this political season progress. I have always considered
myself to be a moderate and would vote for the individual rather than a party
label. It seems as though each party has been taken over by extremists from each
end of the spectrum. The Republicans from the extremely conservative side and
the Democrats from the extremely liberal side. Whatever happened to meeting in
the middle? It is no wonder that the majority of the registered voters have
become disenfranchised and refuse to participate in the current political
climate. We are the silent majority.

MIKE GRAHAM

Copperas Cove

TV has a power switch

A recent letter writer asked how one might put a stop to "the garbage" that is
on TV these days.

One answer is to turn your television off.  The writer also states that "we have
to have this wife swapping thing for our young children to view." I would ask
who is requiring the children to view this? Once again, turn off the TV or at
least change the channel. Perhaps you might try reading to your children, or
take them to a live theater performance, a ballet, a dance performance or a
museum.

BILL McMILLIN

Austin

Statesman's ownership

I've been a resident of Round Rock for three years and have subscribed to your
paper (no other

real choice) for about the same period of time. I have a question regarding the
ownership of  the Austin American-Statesman that I'm certain you can answer. My
question is: Based upon my observations of the content of both your editorial
page and the slant of your reporting, is the Statesman a division of the
Democratic National Committee or merely a wholly owned subsidiary?

TOM HARMON

Round Rock

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Murry Hammond of the Old 97's performs Saturday at the Austin City
Limits Music Festival at Zilker Park.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              68 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 25, 2004 Saturday

Mazda's slippery RX-8 is dressed to the nines with charm

BYLINE: Pete Szilagyi, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E5

LENGTH: 887 words


The distress call would usually come at 6:30, always on a foggy or misty morning
when she had an 8 a.m. class. I drove to her garage, lifted the hood of her
yellow MG-B sports car and dried off the ignition parts. Vroom!

The MG's owner, a woman I knew in the early 1970s, had other issues with the
British-built MG-B, but the car's charisma allowed her to overlook them.

Today, 30 years later, dependable and solidly built sports cars are commonplace.
The shortage now is charisma. Contemporary sports cars can be efficient,
emotionless automatons.

Among the exceptions is Mazda's handsome, unique and eminently likable RX-8,
which I recently spent a week driving. The RX-8, in the high $20,000 to low
$30,000 bracket, brims with technology, including the latest iteration of
Mazda's rotary engine, yet still seems to breathe like a living organism.

The low profile, prominent fenders and winky headlights and taillights have a
friendly, almost cartoonish look, and the subtle sheet-metal contours catch the
light in soft, interesting patterns. The RX-8 looks great parked under the
driveway basketball hoop.

Mazda adapted an idea from Saturn to smooth access to the four-passenger cabin.
Though a coupe, the RX-8 has rear-hinged back doors just wide enough to let a
passenger slip into each rear bucket seat. Barely visible from the exterior, the
doors make the RX-8 family friendly. Leg room in the rear is hardly generous
though, especially with the front seats slid back in their tracks. Still,
passenger capacity is a Mazda advantage for buyers cross-shopping with, say, the
Nissan 350Z or Chevrolet Corvette.

Unfortunately, those Mazda passengers can't pack many changes of underwear.
Trunk space is limited.

Front-seat occupants feel a cockpitlike snugness in the buckets seats and cabin,
yet the atmosphere is not confining or close. The upholstery, however, has the
look of a Las Vegas cocktail lounge.

Leather seats in the RX-8 test model were black and generously patterned with
red leather and a rubbery, ribbed black insert on the bottom cushions. Segments
of the steering wheel and the door inserts were red too. Another available RX-8
interior scheme, preferable to me, uses black and tan instead. Fortunately, I
sat on the red leather and didn't have to look at it.

The RX-8's dashboard design presents circular patterns -- the climate control
vents and stereo controls, for instance, and instruments and bezel for the gear
shifter, all accentuated with a bright border. They are nicely crafted, pleasing
to the eye and handy to the touch. But not perfect. The screen for the optional
$2,000 navigation system, which rises from the dashboard when switched on, is
often compromised by sunlight and nearly impossible to read.

Test drive enough sports cars and you'll beg for a quiet engine, muted road
noise and a settled ride. The RX-8 has all three. They are major advantages.

Because the RX-8's twin rotary engine spins instead of reciprocates, power rolls
on smooth and jetlike, though the car is a bit of a wimp from a dead stop. Once
torque builds, G-forces press the occupants into their seats, and the RX-8
whisks eagerly and rapidly to a very expensive appearance in traffic court if
the driver isn't vigilant. Freeway speeds are announced by a lovely baritone
wail from the dual exhaust pipes.

On paper, the 1.3-liter rotary has moderate horsepower, just 238, but the RX-8
is light, slippery and quick. Front-to-rear weight balance, and carefully
engineered suspension and steering, give novices confidence when cornering.

A 6-speed manual transmission with short throws and crisp actuation helps the
driver keep the engine in the most responsive rpm range, about 5,000 to 8,500. A
four-speed automatic transmission is a less expensive option, but the RX-8
rotary's distinctive power delivery is an invitation to driver involvement with
the six speeds.

As with previous rotary engines, the RX-8 has a thirst for gasoline. Expect 17
to 20 miles per gallon. Rotaries also consume more oil than conventional
engines. And like MGs, they have quirks: Mazda

requests that RX-8 drivers fully warm up the engine before the car is driven
even a short distance.

That can be a bother, but nothing like having to go out on a rainy morning to
start a carelessly built car, no matter how much you like its personality.

Pete Szilagyi answers questions about cars at petesz@macconnect.com.

(box)

Consumer information for the 2004 Mazda RX-8

Base price: $26,680

Options on test vehicle (including spare tire, navigation system, Bose audio,
leather seats, heated seats, xenon headlights, fog lamps, stability control
system): $6,395

Freight: $520

Total: $33,595

Approx. state tax, title, license: $2,250

Sample financing: $7,969 down (20 percent), balance financed for 48 months at 6
percent. Monthly payments $749.

EPA mileage estimates: 18 city, 24 highway; premium fuel

Safety equipment: Front-airbags, side airbags, side curtain airbags, anti-lock
brakes standard

Drive: Rear wheels

Where made: Hiroshima, Japan

Consumer information is provided by Mazda and a credit union. Payments are based
on credit union's prevailing rate for a 48-month new car loan.

Summary

Highs: Engine, rear seat, presence, uniqueness

Lows: Cocktail lounge upholstery, fuel mileage, small trunk

Bottom line: The sports car as family pet

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Finally, a contemporary sports car with charisma to spare.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              69 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 1, 2004 Friday

Cooler days, cooler nights -- ah, it must be autumn;
Front expected tonight, bringing rain, a chance to prop open windows

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 290 words


The Central Texas summer began to fade this week after a cool front Tuesday
pushed the area's overnight lows a little lower, but the afternoon highs stayed
in the summery 90s.

That will begin to change tonight when the first significant cold front of the
season blows through. Daytime highs are expected to drop about 10 degrees on
Saturday and Sunday. The front also will bring a 30 percent chance of rain
tonight and a 40 percent chance Saturday.

After a forecast high temperature today of 91, Saturday's high is expected to be
about 81 degrees. Sunday could be a little warmer.

"It should be real nice on Saturday and Sunday," said KXAN-TV meteorologist Jim
Spencer. "But what showers the front brings will have more influence than any
cool air."

He said the weekend overnight lows could fall into the upper 50s in rural areas,
but they probably will stay in the 60s in Austin.

The last time central Austin lows dropped into the 50s was May 14, at Camp
Mabry, but it doesn't appear that will happen again just yet. Spencer said the
morning low in the city Monday could be 60 degrees.

After a drier-than-normal September, Saturday's showers would be welcome, and
more rain could be on the way when another cool front is expected to sweep
through Tuesday.

There is a slight chance of rain in the forecast all next week, and daytime
highs are expected to remain in the low to mid-80s.

That could wind up being a good definition of October's weather in Central
Texas, according to the Climate Prediction Center of the National Weather
Service, which updated its October outlook Thursday.

The forecast: cooler and wetter than usual, thanks to a weak El Nio weather
maker building in the equatorial Pacific.

dstanley@statesman.com; 445-3629

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              72 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday

Let them stew in Houston

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 532 words


Former Enron executive Jeffrey Skilling doesn't want to be tried at the scene of
the disaster, so he's resorted to almost comic efforts to move his trial to a
more favorable climate than Houston.

Of course Skilling and his attorneys are deadly serious about their 75-page
motion to move the trial out of Harris County. Skilling, Enron's former chief
executive officer, faces more than 30 criminal counts in federal court,
including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.

As proof of the need to move the trial, Skilling's attorneys cited a survey done
by DecisionQuest that found Houston residents connected Skilling's name with
various pejoratives. It's not clear from the news accounts how the questions
were asked, but the survey said nearly a third of those polled in Houston
associated Skilling's name with words such as pig, snake and economic terrorist.

But that still begs the question whether U.S. District Judge Sim Lake should
grant the motion to move the trials of Skilling and former Enron Chairman
Kenneth Lay and chief accountant Rick Causey, who are also defendants and joined
the motion for a change of venue. According to Skilling's own survey, two-thirds
of the Houston population remains as prospective, unbiased jurors.

What the defendants fear is the wrath of people who were harmed by the collapse
of Enron after it was found to be a shell game. In Houston, it wasn't just
investors who lost their shirts; thousands of employees lost jobs, savings
accounts and pension plans, and institutions from the Astros to local charities
were left in the lurch when the company failed.

From a legal perspective, it makes sense that Skilling, Lay and Causey would
want to be tried in a city where the damage wasn't so great and so personal. But
from the standpoint of pure justice, the wealthy executives really should be
judged right where their economic hurricane struck with the most force.

The alternative trial sites suggested by Skilling attorney Daniel Petrocelli are
suspect, too -- Phoenix, Atlanta and Denver. Folks surveyed there weren't nearly
so attuned to the Enron scandal as those in Houston. Causey's lawyer has added
New Orleans to the list.

But people in Billings, Mont., Muskogee, Okla., and Des Moines, Iowa, might be
less angry still about Enron. Of course, those cities wouldn't have the great
restaurants, night life, nearby skiing and other amenities of Denver, Atlanta or
New Orleans.

A fair trial is guaranteed everyone in the U.S. Constitution, but a sumptuous
lifestyle during trial is not. It seems unfair to the Enron victims to have the
disgraced executives living the high life in a top hotel in a great city while
on trial for serious crimes. Then there is the expense of ensconcing
prosecutors, witnesses and clerks in a fancy hotel with expensive meals for
months at the taxpayers' expense.

From here, it looks like another Enron scandal. Plus, there are plenty of venues
in Texas to hold a federal trial. Courthouses from Laredo to Tyler would be
honored to have Skilling, Lay and company as their guests. And if that doesn't
work out, the Enron defendants could always take their chances with the tender
mercies of a jury in Travis County.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              73 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 22, 2004 Monday

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1131 words


There's plenty of talent in United States

Re: Nov. 16 article, "Microsoft opens campus for its growing outsource
operations":

In the Business section of the American-Statesman, a picture of Microsoft CEO
Steve Ballmer is shown with others in India as he opens another plant. The story
states only 1,600 workers are in that plant now. The story further states that
Intel CEO Craig Barrett was also in India. The latter has a mere 6,000 people
employed in India.

Ballmer went on to say that his company would expand in India but that would not
reduce the "job opportunities" in the United States. Oh, really!  I guess he
might really mean an occasional U.S. worker will be hired.

He went on to say that Microsoft is looking for "very high levels of skills" in
India.  And we don't have skilled workers here?

Those words should warm the hearts of all American workers.

ROLAND DAIN

Fredericksburg

Get to work, editors

The ideas conveyed in the Nov. 17 editorial, "Government should aid the helpless
-- even in Texas" are reflective of failed socialist systems.  I spend at least
three days a week doing volunteer work for a women's home downtown and spend my
own money and time to make a difference in the lives of others.

If the editorial board is that concerned with the welfare of humanity, perhaps
it could spend more time getting its hands dirty rather than sitting around
writing editorials that blame the government for not doing it.

Give me a break.  More failing Robin Hood policies won't make a difference. Get
up from behind your desk, go find some hurting people and help make a difference
in the life of someone.  They don't need government institutions -- they need
you.

RICCI NEER

Round Rock

Perry is disingenuous

Re: Nov. 18 article, "Perry pushes panel's ideas for schools":

The "reforms" Gov. Rick Perry advocates are nothing more than an excuse to
dismantle public education. He is actually proposing that we take money away
from public schools and put it into the hands of grossly underperforming, and
largely unregulated, charter schools. He wants to eventually take public money
and give it to private religious schools through vouchers.

This "overhaul" of public education is more a raiding or even looting of public
education.

Our public schools need funds to improve, but all this governor is interested in
is pacifying the right-wing fanatics.  He is using "standards and testing" as an
excuse to punish underfunded, underperforming public schools by cutting their
funding even more.  And what does he want to do with this money?  Give it to
charter schools that already underperform the public schools?  This is insane.

EDWARD ISHMAEL

ed.ishmael@ifrlaw.com

Dallas

Thank that Marine

I do not think the Marine who shot the wounded Iraqi militant did anything
wrong. I would have done the same thing had I been in his shoes. The media and
goodie two-shoes want it both ways. They want freedom, but do not want violence.

The Marine nor his accusers knew if the militant had a grenade, or possibly a
handgun. The militants feel no guilt about killing an American. War is war, and
he was doing his job. Thank the young man.

HAROLD HUNGER

La Grange

Let victims try Marine

I think this Marine should be placed on trial and judged by a jury of civilians
rather than a military tribunal. I think we should draw the jurors from the
family and friends of Nick Berg.

JAMES MARTIN

Kyle

Prioritize, people

It never ceases to amaze me that people will come unglued over something like
the spoof of "Desperate Housewives" on "Monday Night Football," but will accept
troops dying in Fallujah or the gruesome death of aid director Margaret Hassan
without so much as an eye blink. Some people are still moaning about President
Clinton's lie over having a sexual encounter that hurt his relationship with his
family and made a flash in the pan star out of the "other woman," but accept as
the pure truth the lies President Bush tells about Iraq that are getting our
troops killed. Where's the morality in that, I wonder?

ROSE CARR

Austin

What moral values?

Re: Nov. 18 article, "House GOP changes rule to protect DeLay":

If U.S. House Majority Leader Tom Delay is innocent of ethics charges, then why
do the Republicans have to protect him by changing their own rules in case Delay
is indicted? Now exactly what moral values are exhibited here? This is an
extremely dangerous precedent, and I am shocked and appalled by these actions.

DEE JACKSON

Austin

DeLay is embarrassing

The GOP keeps saying that it is the one that has Christian values and morals.
Once again, Republicans are talking through both sides of their mouth. They have
closed ranks in the House of Representatives to protect a man who could very
well be guilty of breaking the law. If DeLay were a Democrat, the Republicans
would be screaming to the rafters to remove him from his position and send him
packing. This investigation is not a political agenda. The individuals who
worked with DeLay were caught red-handed. If he is guilty, he should go to
prison.

He is just another politician who has turned out to be an embarrassment to
Texas.

JAY NEWSOM

Georgetown

The irony of GOP's move

It's ironic that the Republicans gained congressional seats in the November
election with the backing of voters who came out in strength for "moral values."
The party that was rewarded, however, clearly is more interested in power than
ethics. The Republicans have struck down the rules they wrote 10 years ago out
of "moral concerns" about the "power and arrogance" of Democrats. The shoe is on
the other foot now. Shame on the Republicans. Voters, take notice.

MIKE FIELD

Austin

More irony in Statesman

I couldn't help but notice the sad irony of two stories on the Nov. 17 front
page ("SafePlace finances, services in danger" and "Cash flows into DeLay legal
fund").

What does it say about our society when our national legislators freely donate
thousands of dollars for legal fees to prop up the twice-censured Tom DeLay
while our nationally recognized SafePlace is scrambling for funds and slashing
jobs and services to try to make ends meet?

The Republican focus on cutting government spending, particularly in social
services, has contributed to the economic climate that for many raises the odds
for domestic abuse. While family violence occurs in all levels of society,
stresses related to unemployment and underemployment can exacerbate the
situation. SafePlace is a beacon of light in our community and deserves the
support of all of us, including our legislators.  I challenge Reps. Lamar Smith
and John Carter to contribute to SafePlace an amount equal to what they have
donated to DeLay's legal fund -- no, double the amount. Show us what
"compassionate conservatism" is all about.

ERIKA MITTAG

Cedar Park

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy, chief minister of India's Andhra Pradesh state,
officially opens Microsoft Corp.'s Software Development Center near Hyderabad,
India, with Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer, right.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              75 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 8, 2004 Wednesday

Drug safety is critical;
keep politics out of it

BYLINE: Christopher Clark, LOCAL CONTRIBUTOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 702 words


I do not trust Washington politicians to decide which drugs should be available.
If a drug is safe and effective, it should be on the market. Unsafe drugs should
not.

But this simple distinction is becoming increasingly blurred. Activist groups
are putting pressure on the FDA to approve or restrict drugs based on public
opinion and political clout, rather than scientific research.

In September, outrage from activist groups led the FDA to require suicide
warnings on anti-depressants, despite conflicting scientific evidence of such a
risk. In May, over-the-counter "morning after" pills were deemed "unsafe" by the
FDA, despite a recommendation from the FDA's own panel of scientists that the
pills be approved. These birth control pills were rejected because of
conservative political pressure from the White House and members of congress.

Whatever one's political leanings, these events highlight a disturbing trend:
drug safety can be dictated by politics rather than science. This lets unsafe
drugs be sold and keeps useful drugs from reaching the public. Furthermore,
because the FDA both approves drugs and monitors their safety, it is politically
risky for the agency to admit a drug is unsafe once it has already approved it
for sale.

The American Medical Association recently asked for an independent government
agency -- one that is separate from the FDA -- to monitor drug safety. This
independence, the association says, will allow unsafe drugs to be pulled from
market, even when they had previously been approved by the FDA.

This would be a step in the right direction, but it is far from adequate.
Another government agency would be subject to the same political pressures as
the FDA. Public outrage and political considerations could still force this new
agency to take action, even when there is no scientific evidence about a drug's
risk or safety.

What is needed is a truly independent group, one not subject to any government
authority, to determine a drug's safety. A National Drug Safety Laboratory,
perhaps operated by a top-tier research university and funded by the federal
government, would have the autonomy and resources to make politically
unmotivated, scientifically sound pronouncements.

This model has been successful for other national laboratories, such as the
Lawrence Livermore Labs.  Lengthy operations contracts and the research autonomy
afforded by academe have allowed vital research to be conducted with federal
money, despite changing political climates. This lack of political influence or
fear of reprisal would allow a National Drug Safety Laboratory to provide
accurate information about the drugs we take. Its analysis would be free from
the influence of activist groups or political pressure.

Creating such an agency poses a huge challenge: it would require Congress and
the White House to relinquish the political control they now exercise over the
FDA.  They would not be able to react to inflammatory public outrage by
mandating FDA action, and they would no longer be able to pressure the FDA to
approve or reject politically controversial drugs.

Despite these hurdles, an independent drug safety agency seems vitally needed.
The FDA's increasing vulnerability to politics requires swift correction. A
National Laboratory of Drug Safety would ensure that safe drugs can reach the
market, while unsafe drugs are held back.

Even though such action might be difficult politically, we might use the same
tactics to influence Congress that worked on the FDA. Educating the public about
the FDA and its political bias should lead to grass-roots outrage, media
coverage and calls for political action.

This, in turn, could lead to important changes in governmental drug policy --
and help ensure that all safe drugs are available, and all available drugs are
safe.

Clark is a senior in computer sciences at the University of Texas. This essay
was written for a Dean's Scholars Seminar on the "Interaction of Scientific and
Public Perspectives" taught by Professors Adron Harris, Rick Cherwitz and
Carlton Erickson. The course was developed in conjunction with UT's Intellectual
Entrepreneurship initiative and the American-Statesman's Academic Engagement
series.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              79 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 19, 2004 Sunday

Texas road trip: Warm clothes? Check. Trivial Pursuit? Check. Feed bags? Check.

BYLINE: Katy Barron, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 897 words


When the Texas Longhorns play in the Rose Bowl -- the biggest deal in all
football history, judging by the mood of many orangebloods -- what's a
cash-strapped, plane-ticketless student to do? Moreover, what's a 1,400-pound
longhorn steer to do?

Two words. Road trip.

Get psyched, people. Those miles and miles of open road lead straight to an
extreme tailgate party and to what is hoped will be a football game to end all
football games. If ever there were a time for the cherished American travel
experience, this is it.

Several student groups have already begun to plot their cross-country route,
especially the ones that don't really have an option to fly. The Silver Spurs,
the group that handles University of Texas mascot Bevo, is leaving on Dec. 28
for the New Year's Day game against the University of Michigan. It's about a
19-hour trip to Pasadena, Calif., says Silver Spurs President Colby Mueck, but
with Bevo in tow, it takes a tad longer. Mueck and Bevo's four handlers will
stretch out the ride over three days, planning to arrive in time to celebrate
New Year's Eve before the big game day.

"He means a lot to us as an animal, not just as a school mascot, so we have to
stop every couple of hours to make sure he's OK," Mueck explained. This will be
Bevo XIV's first major road trip, but not his last. After the Rose Bowl, he'll
be heading east to our nation's capital for President Bush's inauguration.

Arranging travel for the bulky Bevo is tedious. Bevo travels in a 32-foot
gooseneck trailer, but he can't just hang out there in the Holiday Inn parking
lot at night. The Silver Spurs have to find nighttime accommodations at stables
or ranches en route. We're not sure if he brings jammies and a toothbrush, but
he definitely packs plenty of feed sacks, a few bales of hay and a 55-gallon
water drum.

Smokey, the  1,200-pound Civil War replica cannon members of the student group
the Texas Cowboys shoot off during games every time the Longhorns score, won't
be making the trip to the Rose Bowl, but  many of the Texas Cowboys are planning
to caravan in the ultimate road trip vehicle, the RV. These guys are no
strangers to RVing it. Last year they took two 35-footers to the Holiday Bowl in
San Diego.

At least 20 Cowboys are planning to rent two RVs for the Rose Bowl trek that Web
site MapQuest says is a punishing 1,400-plus miles. They'll rent 30-foot
trailers from Cruise America. The ride is "not a super-plush outfit," but is
comfortable enough, Cowboy P. Ryan Petkoff says. A bed in the back sleeps two to
three people, the two seats in the cabin area fold out to sleep two each and two
additional people can sleep in the overhang.

At 10 Cowboys to a trailer, the cost equals roughly $200 a person for the RV.
With gas, hotel and food costs, they're trying to keep the total bill less than
$500 each, which is less than what last-minute plane tickets to Southern
California are going for over the New Year holiday weekend.

To Petkoff, road trip requisites include warm and cold clothes, because climates
change when you're travelling halfway across the country. He also recommends
plenty of Texas country music, some '80s pop CDs and a guitar. The key is to
kill time, he says.

Pack things such as Trivial Pursuit and cards and bring your singing voice.
"It's not uncommon to hear the 'Eyes of Texas' or the 'Texas Fight' song seven
or eight times," he says. The Cowboys plan to show their team spirit on the
outside of the vehicle with UT magnetic decals and flags.

Because they are an official school organization, the Cowboys chose not to
comment on whether there would be any partying in the RV. But Petkoff says they
are planning a major tailgate event on game day, "We'll spare no expense . . .
this is a big deal."

Students who have no formal spirit responsibilities are also making the Pasadena
peregrination. Sebastien Chain and Vicente Valero, both juniors, don't have
exact details of their trip firmed up, but Chain knows what he's packing. All UT
gear, save one nice outfit for New Year's, "so I don't look horrible in
California," he says.

The music? Classic rock, Tupac and Phish. But most important is the 2003-04 UT
band CD. "We'll be playing it every 30-40 minutes or so just to keep the spirit
going." The guys are also planning to chant the 'Texas Fight' song anytime they
pass a car with California plates.

Many women's spirit groups are also planning to be in Pasadena on New Year's
Day, but we didn't find any making the trip via car. Perhaps the women were
giving their studies precedence over their football. News of the University of
Texas' historic Rose Bowl berth came on a Sunday. Exam week began the next day.
Jacqueline Dickerson, president of female spirit group the Texas Lonestars had
not yet made plans. "It is on our minds and driving us nuts, but we need to
study," she said. Click.

Abi Smithey, a member of the female spirit group the Texas Lassos, said she and
her friends thought about driving but after a quick cost/benefit analysis
figured it would be worth it to fly. "It's cheaper and safer . . . I don't know
of any girls that are road tripping," she said.

So there you have it. King Cone, foreman of the Texas Cowboys, said it best: "It
doesn't matter how you get there as long as you are in your seat to watch the
Longhorns roll over the 'Big Blue.' "

kbarron@statesman.com; 912-2519the Rose Bowl

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bevo and his handlers, the Silver Spurs, will take three days to make
the 1,400-mile trek.
From left, Bret Stanley, Billy Ott, David Whitley, Doug Jones and Scott
Thelander will join at least 15 other members of the Texas Cowboys, a University
of Texas service organization, who'll be driving to California for the Rose Bowl
in two RVs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              83 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 3, 2004, Wednesday

Hays County ponders forming mobility panel
Authority could mean revival of toll road, other long-awaited road projects

BYLINE: Jason Embry, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 635 words


SAN MARCOS -- Hays County commissioners are considering the use of a regional
mobility authority to build and operate toll roads and other roadways.

Commissioners created a committee Tuesday to study whether the county should
form its own agency or try to join officials from Travis and Williamson counties
in the Central Texas Regional Mobility Authority.

The committee, which will include Commissioner Russ Molenaar and county
employees, also will prioritize a wish list of three state road projects that
the county submitted last year to state transportation commissioners.

A mobility authority would give the county a new tool in its quest to keep up
with a fast-growing population. It also could breathe new life into long-awaited
projects. For example, a Hays County authority could decide to build a toll road
to serve as an eastern loop around San Marcos, a project that has been on the
drawing board for decades.

"That's the way urbanizing, metropolitan areas are going to have to be funded in
the future," Commissioner Bill Burnett said.

But Commissioner Susie Carter said an authority sounds like an extra layer of
bureaucracy, and she's not sure she would support it.

"To me, it's putting decision-making on a lower level with people that do not
have as much expertise" as state transportation officials, said Carter, who
joined the unanimous vote Tuesday to form the study committee.

The mobility authorities have drawn wide interest across the state since the
Legislature created them in 2001. But their costs can be daunting. Travis and
Williamson counties both have put forth $550,000 for the Central Texas
authority, the only one in the state that is up and running.

Hays County would need approval from commissioners in Travis and Williamson to
join the Central Texas authority. The county also would need approval from state
transportation commissioners before it joined an agency or formed its own.

The study committee created Tuesday also will revisit the $9.2 million that the
county pledged last year toward expansions of three roads: U.S. 290 from the
Dripping Springs city limits to the Travis County line; RM 12 from the San
Marcos city limits to RM 32, about nine miles west of town; and FM 1626/967 from
the Travis County line to the Onion Creek bridge. The county asked the state to
put $39.5 million toward those projects.

Bob Daigh, district engineer for the Texas Department of Transportation, asked
commissioners two weeks ago to revisit those projects and tell him which is most
important. He said the state can fund only about a third of the transportation
projects that Texas needs.

Daigh's presentation raised questions about whether the county would redirect
money toward Interstate 35, where the cities of Kyle and Buda are expected to
welcome major retail developments in the next few years.

Daigh said a major change in the county's transportation climate over the past
year had been the emergence of several major retailers looking to build in the
northern part of the county, including Cabela's Inc., the outdoor megastore
chain.

Cabela's is considering building its first Texas store on the west side of the
interstate in Buda. Officials say it could become one of the state's top tourist
draws.

Commissioners are not expected to shift money from the bond package toward the
interstate because it was not listed as part of that package before the 2001
vote.

But they are looking at ways to steer money toward projects dear to Cabela's and
other retailers, including using property tax revenues from the stores to pay
for upgrades to nearby roads and overpasses. City officials in Kyle and Buda
also are considering using tax dollars from the new retailers for such upgrades.

jembry@statesman.com; (512) 392-8750

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              85 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 2, 2004, Friday

Session on school finance is expected mid-month
Governor still working to gain a consensus before calling lawmakers back

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 231 words


Capitol sources said Thursday that Gov. Rick Perry is moving toward calling a
special legislative session on school finance later this month.

Perry has said for months that he would convene the special session once
legislative leaders make significant progress toward consensus. April 12 and
April 19 have been mentioned as possible start dates, sources said.

As part of his plan to end the share-the-wealth system of financing schools,
Perry has proposed limiting increases in property appraisals and tax revenue
raised by local entities, such as cities and counties. He's also proposed
financial incentives for schools that improve student test performance.

Perry has not offered suggestions on how to pay for those changes but has said
he supports taxing residential and business properties separately. Some key GOP
backers, including the Texas Municipal League, oppose that idea.

Kathy Walt, a spokeswoman for the governor, said Perry still wants to reach a
consensus before announcing a session.

"I think there is a consensus that has emerged at least on the basic principles
of educational excellence, of maintaining equity while eliminating Robin Hood,
of cutting, capping and controlling property taxes and of maintaining a healthy
job creation climate," she said.

But, she noted, "you still have a variety of revenue options out there being
discussed."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              89 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 6, 2004 Sunday

Reagan dead at 93;
40th president led conservative revolution, shifted global politics

BYLINE: Scott Shepard, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2952 words


WASHINGTON -- Ronald Reagan, the 40th president of the United States who forged
a conservative revolution that reshaped American politics and transformed the
balance of global power, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93.

Reagan died around 3 p.m. of pneumonia complicated by a decade-long battle with
Alzheimer's disease,  a family spokeswoman said. Nancy Reagan, who said last
month that Alzheimer's had taken her husband "to a distant place where I can no
longer reach him," announced his death in a brief statement.

"A great American life has come to an end," President Bush said in France, where
he planned to mark the 60th anniversary of the D-Day invasion today. "He leaves
behind a nation he restored and a world he helped save."

The flag at the White House was lowered to half-staff. The former president's
body is expected to be flown to Washington to lie in state in the Capitol
Rotunda. A funeral at the National Cathedral is also expected, with his body to
be returned to California for burial at his presidential library and museum in
Simi Valley.

Reagan was once called the "unsolved mystery" of modern American politics by
Time magazine. An icon to conservatives, whom he led out of the political
wildnerness, he frequently confounded friends and enemies alike while president,
and his presidency can be seen as a series of paradoxes.

He was a budget hawk who tripled the national debt and created record deficits
with his tax-cutting "supply-side" economic policies, which came to be known as
Reaganomics.

He was a foreign policy novice who hastened the fall of the Soviet Union and,
with it, victory in the four-decade Cold War against the "evil empire."

He was the champion of a durable political movement against big government who
oversaw increases in federal spending every year of his administration.

He was "the Great Communicator" who relied heavily on cue cards and who could
flounder without a script.

He was folksy and warm in public and a passionate champion of family values.
Reagan was the only divorcee elected president and sometimes was accused of
being a distant parent to his four children.

There is, however, no dispute that Reagan was a giant on the world stage and the
leader of a conservative political revolution as sweeping as the New Deal of
President Franklin Roosevelt, his onetime political idol.

"Reagan may not have been a great president," biographer Lou Cannon wrote, "but
he was a great American who had a compelling vision of his country."

That vision -- of "morning in America" where "every day is Independence Day, the
Fourth of July" -- appealed to a nation weary of setbacks at home and abroad.

In his bid for a second term in 1984, Reagan won the greatest electoral victory
in American history, capturing 49 states and 525 of the Electoral College's 538
votes. "America was back" after four consecutive failed presidencies, the polls
showed at the time.

Less than two years later, Reagan's personal prestige plummeted, and there was
serious discussion on Capitol Hill of impeachment after it was learned that
White House aides had traded arms to Iran for American hostages and had used
profits from the deal to illegally fund guerrillas in Nicaragua.

But Iran-Contra, as the scandal came to be known, did no permanent damage to
Reagan's standing with the American people.

He left office in 1989 with the highest approval rating of any president since
Franklin Roosevelt, and his reputation has steadily grown since.

Midwest upbringing

Ronald Wilson Reagan was born Feb. 6, 1911, in the small Illinois town of
Tampico and spent much of his youth in the riverside community of Dixon. His
pious mother, a Disciple of Christ, was known for her kindness and for visiting
the sick. His father, a shoe salesman, was a lapsed Catholic and binge drinker.

Reagan's parents, neither of whom had a high school education, inspired his love
of theater by taking parts in local productions. His summer work as a lifeguard
inspired his sense of helping the community. Even after his White House years,
he would speak of his 77 saves while standing guard over his adopted hometown
beach.

He worked his way through Eureka College, becoming a spokesman for a student
strike over the planned cancellation of some courses and winning an award as a
student actor. He started his career in Iowa as a popular radio sportscaster,
the first of many jobs that honed his communication skills.

With his good looks, mellow voice and a photographic memory for reciting
scripts, he took a Hollywood screen test and was awarded a movie contract at age
26. Several years later, in 1942, he was one of Warner Brothers' top box-office
draws. He had just filmed his most highly praised drama, "Kings Row," when World
War II intervened.

Already an officer in the Army Cavalry reserve, which he joined in part because
of his love of horses, Reagan was called up to active duty. Too near-sighted to
go overseas, he was assigned to make military training films.

After the war, his movie career fading, he became president of the Screen Actors
Guild, where he fought what he believed were communist attempts to make inroads
in the industry. He also campaigned against high income taxes and government
attempts to censor movies.

He was beginning a journey of discovery that would leave him "with a growing
distaste for big government," he wrote in his autobiography.

Once a self-described liberal Democrat, he moved gradually to the Republican
Party.

Taking a job as national spokesman for General Electric Co., he became a
familiar TV host and occasional actor for the popular weekly drama series
"General Electric Theater." He began traveling the country for the company,
giving speeches about his vision of America.

His first marriage, to movie actress Jane Wyman, ended in divorce in 1949. He
had become "heavily involved in union and political activities, which did not
interest" Wyman, Cannon wrote in an early biography of Reagan.

The future president found his soul mate in his second wife, one-time co-star
Nancy Davis, whose devotion to him and support for his political interests made
her a force to be reckoned with as her husband sought and held public office.

His relations with his four children were sometimes strained. In later years,
though, Maureen Reagan, his daughter with Wyman, became one of his most visible
supporters before her death in 2001.

The nation was first exposed to Reagan's political ideas in 1964 in a televised
speech on behalf of Republican presidential nominee Barry Goldwater.

Despite his initial doubts that the voters would accept a former movie star, he
was elected in 1966 to the first of two consecutive terms as governor of
California. In 1976 he challenged President Ford for the Republican nomination.

When that effort failed, he spent much of the next four years on what he called
"the mashed-potato circuit," speaking at Kiwanis and Rotary clubs and delivering
radio commentaries in what became a rehearsal for his successful campaign for
president in 1980.

Vision for a nation

Reagan's conviction that the United States has a special place in history as the
model for democracy became a constant theme during his eight years as president.
Reagan had over many years and in countless speeches developed a growing ability
to convey his vision, which included a return to an era of less government, more
individual freedom and lower taxes.

Just short of his 70th birthday, his idealism fitted him well for a presidential
campaign at a time when the country was still recovering from the divisive
Vietnam War, the Watergate scandal, a stagnant economy and the kidnapping of 52
Americans who were to be held hostage in Iran for 444 days.

Reagan energized conservative Republicans, won over many working-class Democrats
and incumbent Jimmy Carter.

In the 1980 campaign Reagan used two carefully scripted phrases that are now
part of American political lore. "There you go again," he admonished Carter
during one debate. And he asked voters pummeled by double-digit interest rates
and inflation: "Are you better off now than you were four years ago?"

At his first inaugural, Reagan set about restoring the nation's self-confidence.
"We have every right to dream heroic dreams," he said. Renewal at home would
strengthen the country to fulfill its mission as "the exemplar of freedom and a
beacon of hope" for the world, he said.

Britain's former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, assessing his tenure for
National Review magazine, said, "Reagan saw instinctively that pessimism itself
was the disease and that the cure for pessimism is optimism. He set about
restoring faith in the prospects of the American dream -- a dream of boundless
opportunity built on enterprise, individual effort, and personal generosity."

Crediting his idealism for his accomplishments abroad, she wrote: "From the
strong fortress of his conviction he set out to enlarge freedom the world over
at a time when freedom was in retreat -- and he succeeded."

Reagan maintained his hopes for his country even as he released a letter in 1994
informing the public that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's. "I now begin
the journey that will lead me into the sunset of my life," he wrote in longhand.
"I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead."

Compassion doubted

For Reagan's critics, his idealism didn't translate into compassion for the most
disadvantaged Americans. Reagan completed the transformation of the once solidly
Democratic South into the bedrock of the modern Republican Party by tapping the
same anger at the federal government that had propelled Alabama segregationist
George Wallace to national prominence in the 1960s.

Reagan took any suggestion of racism as a personal affront, even when he
delivered a "states' rights" campaign speech in 1980 in Philadelphia, Miss.,
where three civil rights workers had been murdered with the complicity of police
officials in 1964.

He tried to reverse decades of increased spending on welfare, health care and
education. And never during his eight-year presidency did he visit the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, one of the federal agencies most
directly involved in public assistance to poor Americans. On one occasion at the
White House, he failed to recognize his housing secretary, Samuel Pierce, the
only African American member of his Cabinet.

Reagan was notoriously slow to respond to the AIDS epidemic, which emerged
during his presidency. He initially viewed it as akin to measles, but changed
his views after the AIDS-related death of his actor friend Rock Hudson.

His chief adversary was House Speaker Thomas "Tip" O'Neill Jr., an unapologetic
liberal Democrat from Massachusetts. O'Neill recounted in his autobiography that
in a heated clash with the president, Reagan insisted that the unemployed could
find jobs if they really wanted them. O'Neill wrote that he left the meeting
"genuinely angry."

Later that same day in 1986, the space shuttle Challenger exploded and the
president addressed the nation. "I saw Ronald Reagan at his best," O'Neill said.
"As he spoke, even his most severe critic had to acknowledge that his tribute to
the Challenger crew was a masterly speech that touched us all."

The lowest point of Reagan's presidency also occurred in 1986, when it was
disclosed that administration officials had secretly arranged to sell arms to
Iran's militantly anti-American regime as part of a scheme to free Americans
held by guerrillas in Lebanon.

Profits from the arms sales were to go to anti-communist "Contra" forces in
Nicaragua, despite a congressional ban on military aid to the Contras.

Investigators never found proof that Reagan knew about the diversion of money
for the Contras, but they did conclude he had ordered the scheme to sell arms to
Iran.

"A few months ago I told the American people I did not trade arms for hostages,"
the president said in a televised speech. "My heart and my best intentions still
tell me that's true, but the facts and the evidence tell me it is not."

Trials related to the Iran-Contra scandal continued well past his presidency. In
1990 he was ordered to testify on videotape for one of the trials. Questioned at
length about his role in the scandal, Reagan responded 130 times with "I don't
know" or "I don't recall."

The incident would later raise questions about whether Alzheimer's disease had
already begun to take its toll on his memory.

The 'evil empire'

Early in his first term, Reagan issued a direct challenge to the Soviet Union,
calling it "the evil empire." Later, at the Berlin Wall, he delivered a powerful
message to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev: "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this
wall!"

When the two leaders held a summit in Iceland in 1986, they seemed on the verge
of a deal that would have dramatically reduced each side's nuclear arsenal when
Reagan abruptly ended the talks. When the two men forged a nuclear arms
reduction treaty the next year, conservatives expressed their doubts that the
Soviet Union could be trusted. Reagan answered with an old Russian saying:
"Trust but verify."

Reagan instituted the largest peacetime military buildup in U.S. history and
established the Reagan doctrine, a policy of assisting the foes of communism
around the globe. He put the doctrine in action in 1983 by ordering U.S. troops
to invade the tiny Caribbean nation of Grenada and oust its ruling Marxist
dictator. The invasion, supporters said, showed the president was resolved not
merely to "contain" but actually to "roll back" communism.

Critics called the invasion a cynical attempt to distract attention from the
terrorist killing of 241 U.S. Marines in a Lebanese car bombing just days
before.

Reagan was never hesitant to commit resources to further U.S. interests abroad.
Besides the failed Lebanon peacekeeping mission, he ordered the bombing of
Libyan military installations in 1986 and provided substantial support to
anti-communist forces in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Afghanistan and elsewhere.

He prophesized that the Soviet Union would soon collapse from within. It did,
soon after his second term.

On the domestic front, Reagan led a "revolution" that cut taxes based on his
long-held belief that letting people and businesses keep more of their money
would unleash an economic boom. The top income tax rates fell from 69 percent to
28 percent. Federal regulations were curbed.

But one goal Reagan never realized was his hope for a smaller government.
Congress refused to go along, even with Republicans in control of the Senate for
the first six of Reagan's eight years as president. His appeals for greater
self-reliance and replacing welfare with "workfare" were largely ignored, too.

Even so, Reagan gained increasing support from voters. After winning 51 percent
of the popular vote in a three-way race in 1980, he ran for re-election during
an economic upswing and won with a 59 percent majority. At 73, he was the oldest
man ever elected president.

Throughout his presidency, Reagan used humor to disarm and charm his critics,
and he frequently laughed at himself. Former Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois
Democrat, recalled in a televised retrospective how Reagan told him of having to
pay 90 percent tax rates during his years as a movie actor.

"Mr. President," Rostenkowski recalled saying, "I didn't think you were that
good an actor!"

And the president's response? "He laughed like hell," Rostenkowski said.

Reagan's humor was most famously visible after he was shot by a would-be
assassin in 1981, just two months after he was sworn into office. "Honey, I
forgot to duck," he told his wife in the hospital.

The shooting resulted in deep soul-searching by the president about why he had
been spared. As related by author Edmund Morris, the president's authorized
biographer, Reagan wrote on his first evening out of the hospital that "Whatever
happens now I owe my life to God and will try to service him every way I can."

White House legacy

Reagan left office with the highest approval ratings -- 63 percent in a Gallup
poll -- of any departing president in modern times.

In 2000 a group of scholars gathered at the University of California at Santa
Barbara to reassess Reagan's legacy. Hugh Heclo, a George Mason University
professor, told the gathering that Reagan is among only a handful of presidents
whose careers were based on a struggle over ideas to improve the nation.

Reagan didn't deal with ideas in the abstract, Helco said. "He did so as a
public man seeking political power in the name of certain ideas. That he also
became president is a very remarkable thing."

Seventy-eight noted academics surveyed in 2000 by The Wall Street Journal and
the Federalist Society ranked Reagan 11th among presidents, putting him in the
"near great" category along with Thomas Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt, Harry Truman
and Dwight Eisenhower.

In recent years well-financed lobbying groups have sprung up seeking to
perpetuate Reagan's fame by naming government facilities across the nation for
him.

It is an ironic legacy that already, the largest federal government building in
Washington is named for a man whose political career was driven by a single
idea: "Government is the problem."

sshepard@coxnews.com

This article contains material from wire services.

(box)

THE BEGINNING

Nancy Reagan watches on Jan. 20, 1981 as her husband, Ronald Reagan, takes the
oath of office for his first term as president.

THE TEAM

Reagan's vice president for both terms, George H.W. Bush, shared his
conservative values and followed him to the presidency.

THE ALLY

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, a fellow conservative, would become
Reagan's staunchest international ally.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JULY 25, 1984: In his re-election bid, President Reagan visited Austin
with Vice President George H.W. Bush and spoke to about 12,000 people at
Auditorium Shores. Reagan and Bush, in their first joint appearance outside
Washington since 1980, were joined by cheerleaders Cathy Ludwig of the Houston
Oilers and Leslie Scott of the University of Texas, right.
MARCH 30, 1981: Secret Service agents shove Reagan into the presidential
limousine after he was shot outside a Washington hotel, just two months after he
was sworn into office. In an exhibition of his famous humor, Reagan told his
wife in the hospital, 'Honey, I forgot to duck,' but the shooting reportedly
resulted in some deep soul-searching about why he had been spared.
SEPT. 9, 1980: President-elect Reagan, who professed a fondness for jelly beans
that began when he quit smoking a pipe in the 1960s, holds a jarful he received
from the International Business Council in Chicago.
JAN. 22, 1981: Two days after Reagan's inauguration, former Presi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              91 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday

A white Christmas in Central Texas?;
It's possible, so enjoy those soon-to-depart 70s this afternoon

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 519 words


There's a chance the Austin area could have a white Christmas this year for the
first time since 1929, when 5.5 inches of snow fell three days beforehand.

That's if the surprise prediction last week by the National Weather Service's
Global Positioning System computer wasn't a fluke. The computer hasn't repeated
the prediction, and though meteorologists aren't ready to talk snow yet, they
say just about anything is possible Christmas week.

On Wednesday, interpreting the possible atmospheric dynamics across the United
States coming together in the week before Christmas, the computer predicted that
all of Texas west of Interstate 35, as well as the part of the state south of
Interstate 10, would be under a 3- to 6-inch blanket of snow and sleet, with
noontime temperatures on Dec. 24 only in the 20s from Houston to San Antonio.

"I have never seen the model do something like that," AccuWeather.com
meteorologist Joe Bastardi wrote in his Web weather discussion the next day.

Although snow hasn't shown up again in the GPS forecast models, other models and
some meteorologists are coming around to the idea that, indeed, some unusual
weather might be headed for Central Texas.

More than a dusting of snow would be unusual, since it rarely snows in the
Austin area at all and has never snowed on Christmas Day, according to KVUE-TV
meteorologist Mark Murray.

"I wouldn't trust (the GPS) at all for something two weeks out," Lower Colorado
River Authority meteorologist Bob Rose said. "But it starts to raise some flags.
I wouldn't doubt that, the week of Christmas, some parts of Texas will be
looking at ice or snow. Whether it will get down this far, I don't know. It's
rare for the models to paint snow this far south, especially around Christmas."

One thing is likely: With the arrival late tonight of a very strong cold front
pushing southeast from Alaska, today's forecast -- a sunny afternoon with highs
in the 70s -- might be the last mild weather we see for the rest of the year.

No rain is expected from the front, just noticeably cooler temperatures with
daytime highs through Thursday struggling to reach the 50s.

After a light freeze across parts of the region Monday and Tuesday, low
temperatures Wednesday morning will range from the low 20s in the Hill Country
to the upper 20s across the rest of Central Texas, Rose predicted.

After that, the outlook is iffier.

Rose foresees a slight warm-up by the end of the week, although daytime highs
will stay in the 50s and nighttime lows in the 30s. What's tough for
meteorologists to call is the location of an anticipated trough of low pressure
that could assist the descent of some cold Canadian air into Texas for the week
of the 20th.

"It appears that a cold temperature pattern will likely continue," Rose said.
"There are hints (that the Canadian air) may be quite cold. In addition, the
models hint that precipitation will increase across Texas, (leaving) open the
possibility for wintry precipitation.

"It's way too early to tell, but the weather could become very cold and messy
leading up to Christmas Day."

dstanley@statesman.com; 445-3629

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              92 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          January 21, 2004, Wednesday

Funerals and Memorials

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 3973 words


God shows us daily what a beauti-

ful Angel he blessed us with from

Heaven.

We Love and Miss you Dearly!

Happy Birthday With Love.

Kenneth, your daughter, Whitney,

Mom, Dad, family and good friends,

Pat, Necie.

Our Beloved Husband, Father, Son

and Brother, Michael E. Schneider,

age 50, of Austin and formerly of

The Woodlands, Texas, and Cary,

North Carolina, passed away on Jan-

uary 15, 2004.

Michael was born on September 9,

1953, in Georgetown, Texas, to Edwin

George and Ann (Polvado)

Schneider. He was a very active and

curious child and often a prankster.

He was a dedicated student and also

worked while attending college. He

graduated from the University of

Texas, Austin with a Bachelors De-

gree in Engineering. A native Texan

who loved adventure, he enjoyed

challenges and traveling. He had a

quick, clean and witty sense of hu-

mor. Michael was an innovative man

who authored many patents in the

oil industry and later in the comput-

er industry.

Michael supported the Red Cross,

coached soccer teams with his chil-

dren, was active in the Boy Scouts of

America with his son and played the

trombone in his high school band.

He mentored other engineers and

technicians at work. He was also

active for a time with the Knights of

Columbus.

Those left behind to cherish Mi-

chael's memory are his wife, Susan

Schneider of Austin; son, Ryan

Schneider of Deerfield, Florida;

daughters, Kara Schneider of Dallas,

Kelley Schneider and Deidre

Schneider of Houston; and mother,

Ann Schneider; father, Edwin

Schneider; brother, Scott Schneider;

and sister-in-law, Tammy Schneider,

all of Georgetown.

Memorial Services honoring Mi-

chael's life will be held at 10:00 a.m.

Saturday, January 24, 2004, at Betha-

ny United Methodist Church, 10010

Anderson Mill Road, Austin, with a

reception following at the church.

In lieu of flowers, the family re-

quests that contributions be made in

Michael's memory to the American

Red Cross, Austin Chapter, 2218

Pershing Drive, Austin, Texas 78723,

or the American Lung Association of

Texas, P.O. Box 26460, Austin, Tex-

as 78755-0460.

Please join us in honoring Michael

by visiting our memorial at

www.cookwalden.com. Through this

site we invite you to share your

thoughts and fond memories with

our family.

David Lee Reiley, age 62, of

Spicewood, entered into rest on Sun-

day, January 18, 2004, after complica-

tions from cancer.

Born December 23, 1941, in Ken-

edy, Texas, to parents, Marvin G. and

Ruby Reiley, he lived most of his life

in the Austin area. He married his

wife, Lucille Marie (Frugia) Reiley,

on October 12, 2002. He retired from

LCRA in 1985 after 19 years, and

owned Aus-Tex Golf & Turf in

Lakeway.

He is survived by his mother, wife,

and three children, Tami Reiley Can-

ada of Llano, Darrell W. Reiley and

wife, Lori of Round Rock, and Lisa

Reiley Strong and husband, Philip of

Round Rock; four grandchildren,

Macauley, Kyle, Jacob and Christo-

pher; three sisters, and five brothers,

numerous nieces and nephews, and

many, many friends and neighbors.

The family will receive friends

from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., Wednes-

day, January 21, 2004, in the South

Chapel of Harrell Funeral Home in

Austin.

Funeral services will be held at

10:00 a.m., Thursday, January 22,

2004, in the North Chapel of Harrell

Funeral Home in Austin. Burial will

follow at Fall Creek Cemetery in

Spicewood.

Serving as pallbearers will be his

brothers, Marvin Glenn Reiley, Leon-

ard Reiley, Dennis Reiley, Ronnie

Reiley and Stanley Reiley; brother-in-

laws, Frank Jeanes and Michael Bary;

and step-son Mark Doucet.

Arrangements by Harrell Funeral

Home, 4435 Frontier Trail, Austin,

TX 78745 512-443-1366.

On January 19, 2004, Ward Garri-

son age 60, a 20 year resident of

Rolling Oaks Ranch, Driftwood, Tex-

as, went to our Lord to enjoy ever-

lasting life.

In his passing Ward was sur-

rounded by his beloved wife, family

and friends.

He was born November 20, 1943,

in Beaumont, Texas, to Violet Max-

ine Chilson and Ralph Preston Garri-

son. He was a veteran of the US

Marines, and was employed for over

40 years in the automotive parts

industry and was currently in em-

ployed at C & J Auto Supply in

Wimberley, Texas. He was an excel-

lent mechanic and machinist, he

loved his little dog "Denny", his Blue

Chevy Truck, NASCAR and Dale

Earnhard Jr. He was a loving and

devoted husband, father and son.

Ward was preceded in death by his

father, Ralph Garrison; and sister,

Carylon Will.

Ward is survived by his beloved

wife of 40 years, Sharon Weaver

Garrison; son, Ward Wesley Garri-

son; mother, Violet Garrison; sisters,

Helen and husband, Aaron Higgins,

Janice Borque, Joann Huffman and

husband, Mickey and brother-in-law,

Jerry Will; many nieces and nephews,

and family members and friends.

Ward will be greatly missed.

Pallbearers are Buster Lewis, Rob

Esslyes, Danny Stone, Matt Grayson,

Jason White, Thomas Ogden and

Honorable Bill Breedlove and John

Gross.

Visitation with the family will be

on Wednesday, January 21, from

5:00 to 7:00 p.m. Funeral Services

will be held at Thomason Funeral

Home in Wimberley, Texas on

Thursday, January 22, 2004, at 10:30

a.m. Interment following at the

Wimberley Cemetery, Wimberley,

Texas.

Jimmie Lee Greer, age 66, of Gran-

ite Shoals, TX, formerly of Colum-

bus, Ohio, passed away on January

11, 2004, at Seton Highland Lakes

Hospital in Burnet, TX.

He is survived by wife, Katherine

L. Greer with whom he was happily

married for 28 years; also by two

daughters; three stepdaughters; and

one very special dog named Hobo.

Jimmie was employed by and retired

from Hart Graphics in Austin, TX.

Jimmie Greer had a full life and

touched many people in a very spe-

cial way. A memorial was held in

Burnet, TX, on January 14, 2004, by

the friends of Bill W. of whom he'd

been a great supporter for many

years. He will be missed.

Our beloved Santos Constancio Jr.

age 47, resident of Austin, was called

by our Heavenly Father on Friday,

January 16th, 2004.

He is survived by his wife, Mary

Margaret Constancio; grandmother,

Teofila Constancio; father, Santos

Constancio Sr.; mother, Janie Arguel-

lo; sisters, Diane and Irene; including

11 younger brothers and sisters, a

host of children and grandchildren.

Recitation of rosary Wednesday,

7:30 at the Mission Funeral Home

Chapel. Mass of Christian burial will

be celebrated Thursday at 10:00 a.m.

at San Francisco Catholic Church.

Interment will follow in Assumption

Cemetery.

Arrangement under the direction

of Mission Funeral Home, 1615 E.

Cesar Chavez, (512) 476-4355.

Suzanne Eldridge Strickland, 84,

of Round Rock, passed away on

Sunday, January 18, 2004.

Born October 31, 1919, in Albany,

Texas, Suzanne was the daughter of

Reverend John E. Eldridge and Irene

(Brady) Eldridge. She moved to the

Round Rock area in 1980, formerly

living in Abilene, Texas. She was

honored to be inducted into the

Daughters of the American Revolu-

tion. She also actively supported the

Humane Society of Williamson

County. Suzanne was a member of

Central Baptist Church in Round

Rock and was a devoted wife and

loving mother.

Her husband of 40 years, Herwin

Earl "Pappy" Strickland, preceded

her in death, as did a grandson, John

Eugene David Prewit and her

parents.

She is survived by her brother, Dr.

F. G. Eldridge of Valdosta, Georgia;

two daughters, Barbara Sue Widmer

and husband, Phil of Rangely, Colo-

rado, and Diana Strickland Prewit of

Round Rock; her son, H. R. Strick-

land, of Round Rock; granddaugh-

ters, Kathye Zobel of Casper, WY,

Barbara Suzanne Harris of Austin;

grandsons, Bruce Dee Prewit of

Huntley, MT, Herwin Anthony

Prewit of Georgetown, John Philip

Widmer of Rifle, CO, and Kenneth

Neel Grimsley of Portland, ME. She

is also survived by her great grand-

children, Christopher and Elliott

Burke, Chris Harris and Kelley Irene

Harris, Todd Barnum, Jessica

Widmer, Ali Marie and Wyatt An-

thony Prewit, Violet Grimsley, Ross

Grimsley and Taarna Grimsley.

The family would like to express

their sincere appreciation to all the

staff at St. David's -- Round Rock

Medical Center.

Graveside memorial services will

be held at 1:00 p.m., Friday, January

23, 2004, at the Cook-Walden/Capi-

tal Parks Cemetery with Reverend

Mark Westerfield of Central Baptist

Church officiating.

For those desiring, memorials are

suggested to the Humane Society of

Williamson County.

A man whose life was as full and

whose heart was as wide as Texas

itself, and whose humble beginnings

led to a life lived out in giving to

others, passed away on January 18,

2004.

Leroy Elmore (Papa) was born on

December 19, 1916, in Mountain Air,

New Mexico, and was raised in Dick-

ins County, Texas. After graduating

high school, he left and headed out to

California. He soon returned to save

the family farm. Unbeknownst to

him at the time, it was the beginning

of his real estate adventure. In 1939

he met his life partner, Dortha Merri-

man (Dottie) - she was a beautiful,

dark haired rancher's daughter from

Spur, Texas. They soon wed, and a

year later had their only child, Lynda

Royce Elmore.

Papa recognized early on in life

that The Lord had provided him with

a plan and a brain and he was going

to use it. At first, driving a Texaco

gas delivery truck and then, during

WWII driving troops across country

for the Texas, New Mexico, and

Oklahoma Bus Line. He covered

enough terrain in Texas to know each

wildflower by name. He loved people.

He loved meeting, laughing, and do-

ing business with them.

He was a real estate genius. It

began in the 1940's, and he was

recently recognized as having one of

the first real estate licenses in the

state of Texas. Over the years, he

developed very diverse and successful

businesses. He represented the Santa

Fe Railroad. He was on the original

Lubbock Airport Board and on the

board of director of the Great Plains

Life Insurance Company. In 1953, he

began his radio business with partner

Dave Pinkston, KDAV in Lubbock.

It became the first all time country

radio station in the country. He then

co-owned stations in San Angelo,

Amarillo, and Colorado Springs.

This venture brought about friend-

ships with the likes of Elvis Presley,

Johnny Cash, Buddy Holly, Jerry Lee

Lewis, Fats Domino, June Carter,

Loretta Lyn, and Ray Charles to

name a few.

In 1978, he and Dottie moved from

Lubbock to Dallas, where he contin-

ued to sell land all over Texas. His

expertise in real estate brought him

to the attention of other real estate

entrepreneurs such as Mac Pogue,

Howard Hughes, Trammel Crow,

and Jerry Ford. He also partnered

with Pat Merriman as the owners

and operators of the H&R Block

franchise for Texas.

The Elmores were members of the

First Methodist Church of Lubbock

and Lovers Lane Methodist in Dal-

las, Texas.

In 1993, the Elmores moved to

Austin to be near their daughter

Lynda, her children, and their great

grandchildren.

Leroy never met a stranger. You

felt as if you'd known him a lifetime

after just meeting him. His heart was

pure, true, and good. A handshake

was all it took. He was a great

storyteller. His life was a celebration.

His family was his first priority in

life. He was our biggest cheerleader

and supporter during hard times. He

would pick us up, dust us off, and

tell us to try again. His greatest love

was his Dottie. She was the wind

beneath his wings, his strength, and

his biggest fan.

He never liked to say good-bye. He

would say, as you pulled out of the

driveway or hung up the phone, "Be

sweet and don't forget who loves

you!" Papa, we never did forget, nor

will we ever.

He is survived by his precious wife

of 64 years, Dottie Elmore; daughter,

Lynda Menn and husband, Arnold;

brother, C.L. Elmore; grandchildren,

Lisa Bradley, Kristi Vaught and hus-

band, Mark, and Bret Burford and

wife, Electra; great-grandchildren,

Houston Bradley, Valerie Vaught,

Bradley Vaught, and Cole Burford.

In lieu of flowers, the family re-

quests contributions be made in his

memory to a charity of your choice.

Services will be held on Wednes-

day, January 21, 2004, at 3:00 p.m., at

Tarrytown Methodist Church, Aus-

tin, Texas.

Graveside services will be held on

Thursday, January 22, 2004, at 1:00

p.m., at Greenwood Memorial Park,

Fort Worth, Texas.

Serving as pallbearers will be John

Harris, Glen Beaver, Dennis Holt,

Norton Baker, Bret Burford, Jimmy

Gresset, Terry Blankenship and Kip

Kronenburg.

Arrangements by Weed-Corley-

Fish Funeral Home, 3125 N. Lamar

Blvd., Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 452-

8811. You may view memorials online

at www.wcfish.com

Frederique Moinard was born in

Forges-les-Eaux, France, on January

7, 1953, and died on January 18, 2004,

in Austin, Texas, where she had lived

since 1990.

She spent her childhood and much

of her adult life in Paris, France.

Frederique studied at the Sorbonne

in Paris. Since 1993 Frederique

owned and managed Inwords, Inc., a

translating and interpreting agency in

Austin. She was multilingual herself,

having studied and lived in a number

of countries in her young adult life.

Her civic activities included serving

as president of the Alliance Francaise

d'Austin for two years.

Frederique is survived by her

daughter, Camille Moinard Parker, of

Austin, Texas; Camille's father, Wil-

liam Parker, of Austin, Texas; her

mother, Suzanne Moinard, of Paris,

France; three sisters, Joelle, Elisabeth

and Pascale; and two brothers, Bruno

and Thibaut, of France; numerous

extended family members; and many

friends, especially Margaret Bentley

and Peter Bleicher.

A memorial service will be held at

St. David's Episcopal Church in

downtown Austin at San Jacinto and

East Seventh Streets on Friday, Janu-

ary 23, 2004, at 2:00 p.m.

In lieu of flowers, contributions

may be made to the Christopher

H

Marge Kinsella, owner of the Em-

erald Restaurant in Austin, Texas,

passed away surrounded by her fam-

ily, Monday from heart

complications.

Since 1984, she graciously greeted

guests alongside her husband in a

recreation of her parents home in

Ireland. Together with their children

the Kinsella family pioneered one of

Austin's finest restaurants.

Born in Aughadeffin, Co. Mayo,

Ireland to Winifred and John Dalton

she immigrated to New York in 1957,

where she met and married Paul in

1959. Her biggest accolade was her

deep love of family.

Known for her unbounded capaci-

ty to love the unloved, she never met

a stranger and considered life an

adventure.

In America, she is survived by her

husband of forty-four years, Paul and

their children, Margaret, Paul John,

David, Michelle and her hero Dalton.

In honor of her love to Ireland, the

family will travel to her homeland

where her funeral will be held at Our

Lady of Knock Shrine in Co. Mayo,

Ireland.

For the many lifelong friendships

here in Austin, a visitation will be

held Wednesday, January 21, 2004, at

Cook-Walden Funeral Home. The

family will receive friends from 6:00

to 8:00 p.m., Wednesday evening,

with a Rosary recited at 7:00 p.m.

The Kinsella family plans to build

a living garden grotto to Our Lady of

Knock to acknowledge her lifelong

devotion.

In lieu of flowers, contributions

from your family may be made

through Pots and Plants Nursery at

327-4564. On the family's return

from Ireland, a Resurrection Mass

will be celebrated.

May the road rise up to meet you

May the wind be always at your back

May the sun shine warm

upon your face

May the rain fall soft upon your fields

And, until we meet again,

May God hold you in the palm

of His hand.

Dale Adrile Herritt, age 78, of

Austin and formerly of Bloomsburg,

Pennsylvania, passed away Friday,

January 16, 2004.

He was a member of Wesley Unit-

ed Methodist Church of Blooms-

burg, as well as a member of the

VFW #8787 of Austin and a past

commander of the American Legion

#273 of Bloomsburg, PA. He was a

WW II veteran and recipient of the

Purple Heart.

He was preceded in death by his

wife of 61 years, Ruth A. Herritt; his

son, Dale A. Herritt Jr.; and his

brother, John Herritt.

He is survived by his son, Richard

E. Herritt and wife, Connie of Elgin,

Illinois; daughter, Gloria J. Bower of

Bethel Park, PA; daughter-in-law,

Gail Herritt of Bloomsburg, PA;

granddaughters, Jodene Faux of Aus-

tin, Sherry and Barbara Herritt of

Elgin, Illinois; grandsons, Robert J.

Faux of Fort Knox, KY, Kevin Her-

ritt of Danville, PA and Kenneth

Herritt of Bloomsburg, PA. He is

also survived by his brothers, Harold

Herritt of Virginia, and Richard Her-

ritt of New Jersey; sister, Doris Hish

of South Carolina; sisters-in-law, Zel-

da Herritt of Maryland and Peggy

Herritt of Virginia; and seven great-

grandchildren; numerous aunts,

nieces and nephews; and many good

friends.

Memorial services and interment

will be held at Elan Memorial Park,

Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, at a later

date.

In lieu of flowers, contributions

may be made to the Heart

Association.

Betty Jane Kolvoord, age 77, died

Thursday, January 15, in Kerrville

after a long illness.

The daughter of Howard and Stel-

la Weaver, she was born in Wichita

Falls, April 18, 1926, on her mother's

birthday. Betsy, as she was known to

friends and family, grew up in Wichi-

ta Falls. She loved to tell humorous

stories about friends and family from

those early childhood years.

A 1946 graduate of Texas Wom-

ans University with bachelor of sci-

ence and bachelor of arts degrees she

would later earn a special education

certificate. She married Robert Addi-

son Kolvoord on April 29, 1948. For

several years she taught biology at

Hardin College (now Midwestern

University) in her hometown. She

loved to teach and for 22 years she

taught special education at San Jacin-

to and Waltrip High Schools in

Houston. She kept in touch with

many of her former students and

faculty. After retirement in 1984,

Betsy and Bob moved to Boerne,

Texas, where they built a home and

frequently volunteered in the com-

munity. She was a member of St.

Mark Presbyterian Church.

Betsy always had a warm and

cheerful smile and a friendly disposi-

tion. She was a devoted wife, mother

and grandmother, as well as, an

enthusiastic friend and teacher. Ev-

eryone who knew her will dearly miss

her happy voice and tender hugs.

Her mother and father and broth-

er, Howard "Bud" Weaver Jr. preced-

ed her in death.

Survivors include her husband of

55 years, Robert; and children, Larry

Kolvoord and his wife, Terrie, of

Austin; Linda Parsons and her hus-

band, Bob of Kerrville; grandchildren,

Laura Parsons of San Diego, Califor-

nia, Kelly Parsons of College Station,

Evan Kolvoord of Halifax, Nova Sco-

tia, Canada; and John Kolvoord of

Austin. She is also survived by her

sister-in-law, Mary Weaver of Rich-

ardson; and nephews, Mark and Greg

Weaver; her sister-in-law, Ruth

Wahlsten and husband, Carl of

Michigan; and nephews, Doug and

David; and nieces, Karen and

Wendy.

In lieu of flowers, the family re-

quests that donations be made in

memory of Betsy to the Stehlin

Foundation for Cancer Research, 1315

St. Joseph Parkway, Suite 1818,

Houston, Tx. 77002; or St. Mark

Presbyterian Church (Older Adult

Ministry), 208 W. Bandera, Boerne,

Tx. 78006.

A memorial service celebrating her

life will be held at 2:00 p.m. Saturday,

January 24th at the St. Mark Presby-

terian Church at 208 W. Bandera,

Boerne, Texas.

Morris F. Ward, age 81, of Austin,

passed away on January 20, 2004,

following a brief illness. Morris and

his twin brother, Horace were born

on December 19, 1922, in Austin,

Texas, to Elsie and Burt Ward. Mor-

ris retired from the Texas National

Guard at Camp Mabry in 1974 fol-

lowing 21 years of service.

Morris is survived by his wife of

62 years, Lucille "Lucy" Ward;

daughters, Lenora Cogbill and hus-

band, Joe, and Morcille Lawson and

husband, Bob; brothers, Horace,

Dean and Ernest Ward; four grand-

children, numerous great-grandchil-

dren, one great-great-grandchild and

several nieces and nephews.

A funeral service will be held at

1:00 p.m. on Thursday, January 22,

2004, at Cook-Walden Forest Oaks

Chapel of the Oaks. Interment to

follow at Cook-Walden Forest Oaks

Memorial Park.

Maud Estes Van Dyke Jennings,

78, died January 12, 2004, at her

residence following a brief illness.

She was the widow of Henry Lee

Jennings Sr.

A memorial service was held Janu-

ary 16 at the First Presbyterian

Church, Kerrville. TX.

Born April 2, 1925, in Osaka, Japan

to missionary parents, Dr. Paul Shep-

herd Van Dyke and Louise Carleton

Estes Van Dyke, she moved with

them in 1930 to Kerrville. She gradu-

ated from Tivy High School in 1942

and from Agnes Scott College, Deca-

tur, Georgia, in 1946. She also stud-

ied at the Presbyterian School of

Christian Education in Richmond,

Virginia, and taught briefly in the

Alamo Heights School District.

She and her husband were married

August 25, 1948, in San Antonio.

They moved to Austin, Texas, in

1955 where she was very active at

University Presbyterian Church and

the University of Texas' Foreign Stu-

dent Hospitality Program.

Mrs. Jennings moved back to Kerr-

ville in 1965 where she was later

owner and administrator of Town-

house Residental Center. She was a

member of the City of Kerrville

Affordable Housing Committee and

co-founder of Kerr County Habitat

for Humanity. She taught English for

20 years in Kerrville and also in

Poland and Spain with Global Vol-

unteers. She was a Trustee of

Schreiner University, an Elder at

First Presbyterian Church and a

Board member of Sid Peterson Me-

morial Hospital as well as a volunteer

with many community organiza-

tions. She was named Kerrville's

Outstanding Citizen in 1993. In

2002, she was honored by her alma

mater as Agnes Scott College's Out-

standing Alumna for Service to the

Community.

She is survived by five children:

Edith Jennings Black; Henry Lee

Jennings Jr. and his wife, Gwen Tay-

lor Jennings of Kerrville; William

Paul Jennings and his wife, Katherine

Taylor Jennings of Fort Walton

Beach, FL; Lucy Van Dyke Jennings

and her husband, David Berkman

and Randle Estes Jennings and his

wife, Dorinda Spears Jennings of

Austin.

Mrs. Jennings is survived by 13

grandchildren including Carla and

Chris McQueen, Sarah and Eric

Scott, Dillon Berkman and Kathryn

Taylor Jennings all of Austin.

Memorial remembrances may be

made to: Schreiner University, Kerr-

ville Habitat for Humanity or First

Presbyterian Church, Kerrville,

Texas.

The family invites you to send

condolences at www.grimesfuneral-

chapels.com by selecting the "Send

Condolences" link.

Funeral arrangements are entrust-

ed to Grimes Funeral Chapels of

Kerrville.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              94 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 16, 2004 Sunday

METRO & STATE BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1104 words


CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

AUSTIN

Breakfast to mark landmark case

The Texas Civil Rights Project will hold a commemoration breakfast for the 50th
anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education, the landmark desegregation case, at
7 a.m. Monday at the Four Seasons Hotel, 98 San Jacinto Blvd.

The breakfast will also honor a 1954 Supreme Court ruling in Hernandez v. Texas,
a case that began dismantling official segregation of Mexican Americans, and the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, which outlawed racial discrimination in public
accommodations across the country.

Speakers will be Health and Human Services Commissioner Albert Hawkins, former
Mayor Kirk Watson and state Sen. Judith Zaffirini, D-Laredo.

Tickets are $50, and proceeds will benefit the Barbara Jordan Attorney
Fellowship Program, which gives lawyers the opportunity to spend two years
working on human rights and social justice issues.

For more information, call Joy Arthur at 474-5073, Ext. 116.

SAN MARCOS

Woman charged in baby injury

A 20-year-old woman has been charged with injury to a 5-month-old infant
hospitalized with "shaken baby" injuries, police said.

Dedra Reyes of San Marcos was jailed May 11 on the charge, but has been released
on a $50,000 bond.

Police said she violently shook a relative's daughter while caring for the
infant. The baby remains at Children's Hospital in Austin with a serious brain
injury, police said.

AUSTIN

Flowers and frolic

at Farmers' Market

The Austin Farmers' Market kicked off the summer season with fund-raising events
to benefit the Sustainable Food Center on Saturday. The market had live music
performances and drew crowds to demonstrations from chefs as well as farmers.

Above, vendor Mark Itz of McCall Creek Farms Market prepares a bouquet of
flowers for a customer at his stand at the open-air downtown market.

At right, Amanda Kinningham, 7, shows off her hula hoop skills in Republic
Square Park next to the market, where her parents were working a stand for
Longhorn Beef, which they run in Georgetown.

TEXAS DIGEST

GALVESTON

Rare turtles to be native Texans

A third Kemp's ridley sea turtle nested last week along the coast, the first
time that so many of the endangered sea turtles are known to have laid eggs
here.

The nestings have encouraged preservationists in their efforts to save the
turtle. In early April, the species set another state record when a Kemp's
ridley nested below Galveston's sea wall. That was the earliest date on which
one of the endangered turtles is known to have nested on the Texas coast.

"I'm thrilled," longtime Houston-area turtle preservationist Carole Allen was
quoted as saying in the Houston Chronicle's Friday editions. "We may see more
this year. We could have turtles showing up from now to late June."

A 2-foot-wide Kemp's ridley crawled ashore Tuesday and laid 99 eggs in the warm
sand at Crystal Beach on the Bolivar Peninsula. The west end of Galveston Island
was the site of the second nesting on April 17.

DALLAS

No charges in deadly use of force

A Dallas County grand jury has declined to indict a Dallas police officer who
used a controversial neck hold to subdue a man who later died.

Relatives of the man, Allen Simpson, criticized the panel's decision Friday not
to indict officer Seth Rosenberg on criminal charges. Relatives said they were
already frustrated with the city's response to their concerns and were not
surprised by the ruling.

"I don't feel like justice has been done for this police officer to be
no-billed," Simpson's mother, Bernadine Thompson, was quoted as saying in The
Dallas Morning News' Saturday editions.

Another officer who assisted in the arrest, Lonnie Howard, also was not
indicted.

Medical investigators ruled Simpson's death a homicide.

Officer's brother linked to slaying

A Dallas police officer has been cleared of any criminal involvement in a
stabbing death at a drag strip, but his brother has been arrested in connection
with the slaying, said sheriff's department officials.

Senior Cpl. Patrick Barrientez notified the sheriff's department the day after
the May 2 stabbing.

The department had already arrested Raymond Longoria, 27, of Lancaster in
connection with the crime based on witness accounts. But after talking to
Barrientez, the county on Thursday dropped charges against Longoria and arrested
Barrientez's brother, Daniel Barrientez, 33, of Lancaster.

Sheriff's officials refused to say what the Dallas officer told them but said he
was not involved in the slaying.

The stabbing occurred at the Yello Belly Drag Strip in Grand Prairie after a
fight broke out. Kevin Tucker, 24, was stabbed several times in the chest.

ARLINGTON

Compensation for firefighter

A federal judge says Arlington must pay a former firefighter $1 million for
firing him after he stayed home to care for his sick wife on New Year's weekend
in 1999 as emergency officials prepared for a possible Y2K crisis.

U.S. District Judge Terry Means, who scolded city officials for their treatment
of Kim Lubke in a post-verdict order issued Thursday, ruled that the city should
have known it was violating the federal Family and Medical Leave Act, which
entitles a worker to up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a seriously ill
family member.

Lubke, a 22-year Fire Department veteran, was fired in April 2000 after a
three-month internal investigation.

Means added $300,000 in punitive damages, $305,291 in attorney fees and $9,575
in court costs to the $395,000 a federal jury awarded Lubke in April for lost
wages and benefits.

HOUSTON

Terrorists kill energy worker

An employee for ABB Lummus Global Inc. has died of a gunshot wound he received
in a terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia, the energy services company said.

Thomas Washburn, 40, died Friday in a Houston hospital, company spokeswoman
Patti McDonald said. Four other ABB employees died in the May 1 attack on ABB's
office in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, as did an ABB contractor.

Washburn, a project manager, was flown out of Saudi Arabia on May 8 after being
shot in the throat.

He was paralyzed for more than a day after the attack but regained some ability
to move his torso and arms, his brother said. But his condition deteriorated in
recent days, McDonald said.

Washburn was a Canadian citizen who had lived in Houston for about four years,
said his brother, Ken Washburn of Fredericton, New Brunswick. He was promoted to
project manager about two months before the attack.

The Saudi Interior Ministry described the four gunmen who attacked the energy
company's office as Islamic militants and possibly opponents of the Saudi
monarchy. Police chased and killed the men after the attack.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              96 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 30, 2004 Sunday

Tot fun in the summertime

BYLINE: Gretchen Heber, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. K6

LENGTH: 756 words


As summer approaches, and kids are freed from the bounds of formal education,
parents might find themselves in need of a few books to keep youngsters' minds
active and their eyes off the television.

An absorbing look at art created in the most dire of situations, Susan Goldman
Rubin's "Art Against the Odds: From Slave Quilts to Prison Paintings" (Crown,
$19.95) combines well-known history and common situations with little-known,
mostly self-taught artists. An American woman of Japanese descent documents her
time in a California internment camp during World War II, while another draws
pictures to help her pass the time in a Nazi concentration camp. Helga Weissov
was barely a teenager when she was deported to the Theresienstadt concentration
camp. There she drew scenes of children sneaking off to study in secret, and, in
a particularly poignant painting, the object of a child's simple wish: a huge
cake making its way -- on a hearse -- from her hometown of Prague to the camp.

Others use paper and paint to make sense of lives fogged by mental illness. The
well-known "outsider" artist Henry Darger, for instance, is represented here by
a vivid painting of dozens of little girls enjoying a day in the garden.
Darger's work is controversial, but this painting looks like a sweet attempt to
replace his little sister, who was given up for adoption shortly after their
mother died in childbirth.

In simple, fact-packed prose, Rubin tells us about prisoners who illustrate life
behind bars: "Jailed criminals live in ugly surroundings. Bars, chains and wire
fences enclose them. Cement walls and ceilings have no color. Toilets and sinks
are steel gray. Occasionally a prisoner spots a bit of color and is thrilled."
She describes how slaves sewed stories, dreams and remembrances into quilts and
how inner-city kids find a sense of purpose and hope in discovering their
artistic selves.

"Art Against the Odds" is an endlessly hopeful look at the will of the human
spirit to create beauty, no matter the circumstances. It is intended for kids 10
to 14, but adults will be moved by the book's optimism, as well.

Painting and cooking

The characters in Alice McGill's "Sure as Sunrise: Stories of Bruh Rabbit & His
Walkin' Talkin' Friends" (Houghton Mifflin, $17) are endlessly optimistic, as
well. Renowned storyteller McGill retells five tales that she heard while
growing up in North Carolina. The tales are country-familiar; in "Bruh Possum
and the Snake," a kind possum helps a sly serpent, who repays him with a bite.
Bruh (brother) Possum learned his lesson: "No matter how good your heart, if you
ever spot trouble, don't never trouble trouble if trouble don't trouble you."
McGill's lively and warm dialect will tickle a new generation of listeners.
American-Statesman artist Don Tate's engaging, jovial illustrations bring the
stories to life. For kids 5-8.

Ted Dewan's "Bing: Get Dressed" and "Bing: Paint Day" (David Fickling Books,
$5.95 each) are rambunctious titles for toddlers, showcasing Bing the Bunny
colorfully creating chaos as only a youngster can do. "Paint Day" demonstrates
why every parent silently groans when her toddler declares a desire to paint.
Bing's a master messmaker, but the joy with which he creates his "masterpieces"
renders the chaos endearingly forgivable. Lively typography accompanies
retro-collage art in these mini-hardbacks, which could well become dog-eared
classics.

Also worth checking out this summer: "There's a Chef in My Family: Recipes to
Get Everybody Cooking" (Harper Collins, $22.99) by celebrity chef Emeril
Lagasse. Turn your couch potatoes into potato cookers with the help of Mr. Bam!
himself. Some of the recipes seem a bit of a stretch for kids -- I don't know
many adults who would take on Emeril's Favorite Stuffed Shrimp with 19
ingredients and oodles of steps, let alone kids. Other recipes, such as Chicken
Parmesan Emeril-Style, are more manageable. A global selection of cuisine is
represented in everything from breakfast treats to breads, salads, soups,
snacks, main courses and, of course, desserts.

And from another celeb: Billy Crystal's "I Already Know I Love You"
(illustrations by Elizabeth Sayles; Harper Collins, $16.99). In sweet rhyme,
Crystal celebrates Grandpa-ness in this eye-filling look at a grandfather's
tender love of his yet-to-be born, but much-anticipated, grandchild. "I'm
waiting to show you the stars, storm clouds, and the moon. I want to make silly
faces and laugh just like a goon." For kids 3-7.

gheber@statesman.com; 445-3506

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              97 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 10, 2004 Thursday

small worlds;
KIDS BORED AGAIN? PUT DOWN THE GAMEBOY AND HEAD TO PLACES WHERE MEMORIES HAVE
BEEN MADE FOR GENERATIONS

BYLINE: Ricardo Gandara, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: XL ENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2666 words


in the constant search to entertain, parents knock themselves silly looking for
ways to keep children happy. God knows, kids are easily bored. The quest
inevitably takes parents to places with lights and noise, usually coming from  a
machine -- a money-gobbling machine.

They'll even try characters -- clowns and rats and dinos -- who entertain and
scare at the same time. Ooooooooo. It's a struggle, looking for something that
will grab the kids' attention, especially with multiple children and no
unanimous choice.

But wait, what is that in a corral? A pony, you say? Excited children guardedly
point because they are both intimidated and curious. And elsewhere, boys try to
whack a golf ball into the tail of a giant T-Rex. They can't get the ball in the
cup so they beat on the dino. And are those children jumping up and down
ecstatically because they knocked over two pins with a bowling ball? And look at
the big smiles on kids speeding in circles at a roller rink?

They are all having fun. Old school is cool.

Around Austin, unpretentious small worlds (OK, adults have fun there, too) that
have stood the test of time continue to capture the imagination and warm the
hearts of children.

Often, parents see more than enough of these spots on the birthday circuit,
celebrating each special day for their children and their children's friends.
They see more of Kiddie Acres than they ever dreamed. Before long, everyone
graduates to Peter Pan Mini Golf or Dart Bowl as the kids get bigger and
stronger. Then they will discover Skate World or another place for speed on
wheels.

Let's go, then, where entertainment is simple, even affordable. Four Austin
landmarks featuring: A merry-go-round. A little white ball. A big heavy ball. A
slab of concrete begging for a pair of skates.

Hang on.

kiddie acres

Got a ticket to ride? This carnival is always in town

Founded: 1979

Owners: Joe and Marina Herring

Address: 4800 W. Howard Lane, 255-4131

Hours: During summer, noon-7 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, Sunday; 10 a.m. -7
p.m. Wednesday; 10 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday

Prices: $1.85-$5.55 per ride; group rate 100 tickets for $100. One ticket per
ride except the train (2) and ponies (3).

on this five-acre, graveled lot sandwiched between a business park and a rock
plant on Howard Lane is a child's world. A Ferris wheel, train, merry-go-round,
airplanes, boats, cars and live ponies. Cotton candy. The carnival organ music
of Paul Eakins faintly plays in the background.

It is Kathy Shelly's world, too. On this Saturday afternoon, it's her daughter
Payton's second birthday party. Mom moves quickly between the picnic tables to
the rides, handing out juice boxes like a race volunteer doling out water cups
to runners. That busy.

This is a homecoming. Shelly remembers that her first time at Kiddie Acres was
about 1979 for Jennie Love's fourth birthday party. And there she is! Jenny
McIntyre now is with her 3-year-old daughter, Julia.

"I've been coming for 30 years," says McIntyre. "It's amazing to see the same
rides here forever. This is a child's haven."

Parents of young children love Kiddie Acres. Baby strollers rule the grounds.
Per square foot, Kiddie Acres must attract one of the largest collection of
mommies-to-be in one area.

On Sept. 11, Kiddie Acres turns 25. Joe and Marina Herring opened it on Burnet
Road on land owned by Marina's father, Earl Podolnick, who old-timers will
recall owned the Burnet Drive-In across from the Poodle Dog Lounge.

The Herrings got the idea for Kiddie Acres from the Riverside Kiddie Land that
sat at Barton Springs Road and South Lamar Boulevard in the 1950s. Joe enjoyed
Kiddie Land as a kid and never forgot the fun. Wednesday was nickel-a-ride day.
The small amusement park was eventually moved to Manchaca about 1980 and later
closed. When the Herrings opened their park in 1979, it was Joe's dream. The
name was Marina's idea, after the TV show "Green Acres."

Joe quit his day job as a lineman for the City of Austin. Marina quit working
for her dad's theaters.

Kiddie Acres was simple then; it's simple now. "We're tried to create a place
where a child can use his imagination. He can dream of being a pilot," says Joe
Herring.

The Herrings' children -- daughter Michelle just graduated from the University
of Texas and son Michael is a global systems analyst for Exxon in Houston --
grew up working in the family business.

It's been a job-training ground for hundreds of other teens, too. Paula
Davenport worked there in the early 1980s when she was 14. She met a boy, Tommy
Kaderka, and a romance ensued. They're married now, thanks to the foundation
laid at Kiddie Acres. They return to the place that started it all every once in
a while to show off their three daughters to the Herrings.

The family charm of Kiddie Acres is because of the TLC the Herrings spread every
day. They yak it up with customers, ever so polite and helpful.

The best endorsement? On a recent Saturday, 5-year-old Mateo Macias is
frantically clinging to his mother's leg as they are about to leave. He's crying
and begging for another ride.

"We're out of tickets. We have to go home," says his mother Laura.

Off in the distance, Joe Herring is smiling at the all-too familiar scene. He
knows he's created a place children love.

peter pan mini golf

On these greens, measure success by the smiles, not the scorecard

Founded: About 1950

Owners: Dismukes family

Address: 1207 Barton Springs Road, 472-1033

Hours: Days vary, call ahead for times;  generally opens at 9 a.m. and closes at
midnight

Price: $5 for 18 holes or $7 for 36 holes

after a hike of 25 steps, the reward is a whale with its mouth wide open. A
tuxedoed pig. A smiling rabbit. Peter Pan. A giant orange Tyrannosaurus Rex.

It's a hidden paradise at the top of this hill. Trees of different varieties,
including tall Texas pecans and oaks. Crape myrtles in the right places. Even a
small palm tree. Grass. Over the speakers, the Guess Who's "No Sugar Tonight in
My Coffee" seems to be the right song.

For more than half a century -- the owners aren't sure exactly how long -- Peter
Pan Mini Golf has given Austin something to count on: Little has changed over
the years.

"I think I first came when I was about 10. It hasn't changed," says Don Wolfe, a
parent volunteer at Berkeley United Methodist Church, who is on an outing with
teens from the church. "I did see my first dead man right on the other side of
the tracks over there. A hobo was hit by a train."

Debbie Brand, a native Austinite  accompanying Wolfe, visited Peter Pan as a kid
but hadn't been back for at least 20 years. "No, I don't think it's changed any
either. That's good. This place is like a flashback to me. It's Never-Never
Land," she says.

Mike Dismukes, one of the owners, likes to hear that. His uncle, Clifford
Dismukes, who first opened the course under the name Varsity Links, would be
proud his idea worked. Give people good family fun and they will come. When
Clifford Dismukes died in 1968, Mike's father, Glen, and an uncle, Jack
Dismukes, took over the business, made improvements and renamed it Peter Pan
Mini Golf. When Glen Dismukes died in 1998, Mike began running the business that
is also owned by other family members.

Glen Dismukes was the creator of all the characters, building each from scratch.
"He was the artistic one. While Uncle Jack concentrated on the business side,
Dad always concerned himself with the feel and the look of the course, even how
the paint held up," says Mike Dismukes.

Players like to club and bash some of the characters, but the chipped paint adds
a touch of nostalgia. "That's the beauty of this place. It's not a microwave
front. You find old-fashioned fun here," says Wolfe.

Yes. Sitting on the dinosaur's tail is Heather Eisenberg, 25, who is playing a
round with Kathy Mauldin, 22. They're lost in their conversation about music.
Not even keeping score. When prodded, they stop to reflect about their choice of
entertainment on a recent weeknight. "This is one of the cool original hot
spots. I like little dives. I like vintage. I like Peter Pan," says Eisenberg.

While adults and students rule the course at night, parents, children and senior
citizens converge on the course in the early part of the evening. A warning:
Players of legal age have been known to consume adult beverages on the course
late at night.

skate world

A place to catch up with your kids -- or play catch-up

Founded: 1980

Owner: David Phalan

Address: 9514 Anderson Mill Road, 258-8886

Hours: Noon-4 p.m. Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday; noon-4 p.m. and 6 p.m.-10 p.m.
Monday; noon-4 p.m. and 7 p.m.-10 p.m. Thursday; noon to 4 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.-11
p.m. Friday; 11 a.m.-10 p.m. Saturday

Prices: $4 (plus $1 skate rental or $2 for inline skates), except for $1 family
nights on Thursday and $6 on Saturday

skylar Kobren, 9, overtakes his mother, Jami, on a turn. "He's too fast for me,"
she says. She tries to keep up and each time he speeds ahead, making for a
mother-chases-son game at Skate World. It's a game Mom can't win. All the while,
Skylar taunts her. The moment is priceless.

At this skating rink, countless parent-child bonding moments have occurred
through the years: races, dancing to the "Hokey Pokey" or the babying a parent
does after a child has fallen for the umpteenth time. "Skating together is just
a good family thing to do," Jami declares.

The Kobrens are at Skate World for Sahar Rashed's seventh birthday party.
Concurrently, brother and sister Cheyenne and Jeremy Petrich are also
celebrating a birthday at a separate table nearby. One time or another,
seemingly every kid in the Austin area ends up at Skate World, whether it's a
birthday or a school-sponsored party.

The rink has a new owner, David Phalan, who is jazzing up the place: new
bathrooms, carpet and paint. He's installing an inflatable playscape for little
ones and ramps that will be set up for skateboarding on certain nights.

He'll continue supervised all-nighters that are popular with kids who are locked
in the building. They skate and eat till exhaustion. Summer camps are planned
that include movies and field trips to Lake Travis to teach children to water
ski.

Skate World is patronized by rink rats of all ages. Beverly Mendoza, 38, who
hung out at the now-closed Hot Wheels rink in South Austin as a teen, discovered
Skate World in 1995 when her son Dylan, 4 at the time, began skating. Now, the
two and husband Paul make it a family event when they aren't scuba diving or
riding dirt bikes.

"We reserve Friday nights for skating. I like to skate to the music, which, of
course, embarrasses Dylan," says Beverly.

The rink is a hit with the Mendozas because they think it's a safe place for
children. "I like the way everything is situated so you can see the reception
area where the concession is. Parents can skate and, if their child stays in the
reception area, it's easy to keep an eye on them. That's important," says
Beverly.

The rink quickly grows on families. Eddie Lance, who teaches roller hockey at
Skate World, says, "I can remember the first time we walked in on a Friday night
at 6:30 in 1990. It was crowded. Parents were skating with their kids. Three
birthday parties were going on. The tables were covered with party favors."

His son Christopher and daughter Victoria took to the rink. Soon, they were
there four or five times a week. Christopher took up inline hockey. Victoria
joined figure roller skating.

"You meet good people at the rink. It's just a good place to be," he says.

dart bowl

One-stop shopping for fun, food and fashion (well, socks, anyway)

Founded: 1958

Owners: Family Sports Inc.

Address: 5700 Grover Ave., 452-2518

Hours: Opens daily at 9 a.m., closes at midnight Sunday through Thursday and 2
a.m. Friday and Saturday

Prices: Vary depending on day and time; before 6 p.m. Monday through Friday it's
$2.95 for adults and $2.45 for students, plus $2.25 for shoe rental

never mind that bowling at Dart Bowl in itself is a good thing to do. There's
also a museum of sorts to enjoy on either side of the entrance. It includes a
magazine clip of John Venturello, America's oldest bowler at 102. Old wooden
pins and bowling balls. Knick-knacks of Minnie and Mickey Mouse bowling. An old
pamphlet, "Bowling Tips," by Tillie Taylor, courtesy of Kinney's Shoes. Patches.
Collectible pins. Beer steins. Old trophies and photos.

Like any bowling center, there is a mix of the very young (using bumper guards
to avoid a gutter ball every time), teens (on dates) and the very old (getting
what they call exercise). Some patrons munch on chips and soft drinks. Some take
a drag off a cigarette and a swig of beer between turns to bowl. Some come for
the enchiladas in the cafe. Some just to watch. But always, children are around,
either bowling or working the vending machines.

Dart Bowl is a one-stop place for taking care of life's daily issues. Need
money? An ATM for your convenience. Got a headache? Advil for $3 in a vending
machine. Need socks and can't find a Wal-Mart? Dart Bowl has socks -- albeit
bowling socks -- in a vending machine. OK, you can't get photos developed or pay
the electric bill, but who knows what the future holds?

Dart Bowl is a cash cow for Jessica Ganem. Imagine bowling paying for college.
That's exactly what the 15-year-old has done by playing well for the past seven
years in tournaments and leagues. She's earned more than $10,000 in scholarship
money.

"Yeah, it will help me a lot," she says. The Leander High School student, who
carries a 194 average, plans to attend Wichita State University to become an
occupational therapist.

The Ganems make bowling a family affair. Grandpa Bill Ganem, 76, still bowls.
His son, Billy, Jessica's dad, sports a hefty 230 average. Ten-year-old William,
Jessica's brother, has an impressive 180 average.

Bill Ganem gets the fuzzies watching his grandchildren play in a place he's
frequented since 1960 when Dart Bowl was at Anderson and Burnet roads. "I
haven't given this much thought, but I guess we all expected them to bowl. They
are following in our footsteps," he says.

Jessica enjoys growing up among people who share her interest and, she notes,
"This is very affordable entertainment.

"You just feel good going to Dart Bowl. Everyone becomes part of your family.
People are so nice and welcoming to anyone who walks in the door. It's just a
great atmosphere to play, watch and eat."

(box)

There are other small worlds to entertain children in the Austin area. Here is a
sampling:

Austin Children's Museum. 201 Colorado St., 472-2499. www.austinkids.org. Hours:
10 a.m-5p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon-5 p.m. Sunday. Price: $5.50, $3.50 for 12-23
months, younger than 12 months free; Wednesday 5-8 p.m. is admission by
donation; birthday parties available.

Playland Skating Center. 8822 McCann Drive, 452-1901.
www.playlandskatecenter.com. Hours: Tuesday-Sunday, 2- to 8-hour skating
sessions beginning at 2 p.m. Price: $4.75-$6; birthday parties available.

Austin Rock Gym. 8300 N. Lamar Blvd., 416-9299 and  4401 Freidrich Lane,
416-8655. www.austinrockgym.com. Hours: 10 a.m .-10 p.m. Monday-Saturday, 10
a.m.-7 p.m. Sunday. Price: 17 and younger day pass $11, adults $13; shoes and
harness rental $7.

Austin Zoo. 10807 Rawhide Trail, 288-1490. www.austinzoo.org. Hours: Open daily,
10 a.m.-6 p.m. Price: Ages 2-12 $4, younger than 2 free, adults $6; birthday
parties available.

Blazer Tag Adventure Center. 1701 Ben White Blvd., 462-0202.
www.blazerlazer.com. Hours: Noon-midnight Monday-Thursday, extended hours
weekends. Price: $7 per 20-minute game; birthday parties available.

Capital Gymnastics. four locations, 251-2439. www.capgym.com. Hours: Call ahead
for public sessions. Price: $15-$20 for open sessions; birthday parties
available.

Chaparral Ice Center. 14200 N. Interstate 35, 252-8500. www.chaparralice.com.
Hours: Public skating 1-5 p.m. Monday-Friday and 1-3:30 pm Saturday. Price: $9
includes skate rental for public skating; birthday parties available.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ethan West, 5 months, gets a good look at Kiddie Acres from mom Melinda
West's carrier. Before you know it, Ethan will be among the throngs of toddlers
who inhabit the park.
Don't let the big orange dinosaur scare you. Peter Pan Mini Golf is
entertainment for children of all ages.
Strike a pose, and hopefully post a strike, at Dart Bowl. After a game, check
out the collectibles or have a meal.
These feet are ready to roll. Skate World has been part of countless big events
in children's lives.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              99 of 103 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 7, 2004 Thursday

Business Digest

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 526 words


PETROLEUM

Oil prices jump to $52.02

as Nigerian strike looms

WASHINGTON -- Crude futures surged 93 cents to $52.02 a barrel Wednesday on the
New York Mercantile Exchange as a possible strike by Nigerian oil workers
loomed.

Nigeria's main oil workers union said it would join a national strike, set to
begin next week, unless the government agreed to talks on rising fuel prices.
Nigeria, which produces more than 2 million barrels of crude daily, is the
world's seventh-largest oil exporter.

Hours later, the Energy Department reported that commercially available
inventories of crude grew by 1.1 million barrels to 274 million barrels.

That follows an increase of 3.4 million barrels in the prior week but still
leaves inventories 4 percent below levels of a year ago, a shortfall that has
traders worried as global supplies remain tight and colder months approach.

NATURAL GAS

Price increase, high usage will fire up heating bills

WASHINGTON -- Natural gas prices for consumers are expected to rise 11 percent
this winter, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its annual
winter fuels outlook.

Combined with an expected 4 percent jump in consumption, households heated by
natural gas will pay about 15 percent more to stay warm this winter than they
did last winter, the agency said.

The rise would mark a 67 percent increase from bills in the winter of 2001-02.

SOFTWARE

Computer Associates

to acquire Netegrity

BOSTON -- Computer Associates International Inc. will acquire Netegrity Inc. in
a $430 million cash deal that will merge the computer security software makers.

Islandia, N.Y.-based Computer Associates' acquisition of Waltham, Mass.-based
Netegrity is expected to close within 90 days, subject to approval by regulators
and shareholders at Netegrity, a much smaller company.

The deal comes less than a month after Computer Associates agreed to pay $225
million to its shareholders as part of a deal it made with regulators to avoid
criminal prosecution for alleged securities fraud. Its former CEO, Sanjay Kumar,
also was indicted on securities fraud and other charges.

SEMICONDUCTORS

Hynix completes sale,

gets cash for expansion

SEOUL, South Korea -- Hynix Semiconductor Inc. has completed the sale of its
nonmemory chip operation for 954.3 billion won ($827.6 million) to the venture
capital arm of Citigroup Inc., winning a crucial source of cash to expand its
memory chip facilities.

Hynix, the world's second-largest producer of memory chips, hopes to catch up
with its South Korean rival, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., by modernizing
production facilities after years of under-investment. Samsung operates its only
U.S. memory chip plant in Northeast Austin.

AUTOMOBILES

Volkswagen taps former

DaimlerChrysler exec

FRANKFURT, Germany -- Volkswagen AG has selected Wolfgang Bernhard, a former
DaimlerChrysler AG executive known for his cost-cutting skills and new-product
flair, to take over its ailing flagship car brand.

Bernhard, 44, was abruptly sidelined by DaimlerChrysler's board in April, just
as he was scheduled to move from the No. 2 position at Chrysler to the top job
at the company's Mercedes-Benz division.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wolfgang Bernhard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              100 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 11, 2004, Sunday

SARS scare targets a Chinese delicacy

BYLINE: Andrew Yeh, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 691 words


GUANGZHOU, China -- Zhong Sumin, a garrulous 41-year-old cab driver, has had the
pleasure of eating civet cat only a few times, but he knows exactly how he likes
it prepared: braised in soy sauce.

The civet cat, a relative of the mongoose that looks something like a weasel,
has long been a delicacy in southern China. The dark-colored animals can cost as
much as $200 at a nice restaurant that specializes in what locals call ye wei,
literally "wild cuisine."

But the animal has recently been vilified for being potentially responsible for
passing SARS to humans. China's government recently began slaughtering them by
the thousands to prevent another outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome.

On Saturday, World Health Organization experts searched a Guangzhou restaurant
where a suspected SARS patient worked as a waitress, serving civet cats and
other exotic wildlife.

A 32-year-old TV producer was recently discharged from a local hospital after
being diagnosed as China's first SARS case since July. The disease was
controlled only after about 800 people died and 8,000 were infected worldwide,
causing a global scare.

Lab tests have been conducted on hundreds of civet cats since the summer, but
medical researchers still haven't been able to say with certainty whether the
animals helped spread SARS.

"The jury is still out on the civet cat question," said Dr. Robert Breiman, who
leads the WHO team in Guangzhou. "We clearly see that civet cats are carriers
(of the virus), but it's not yet clear that the mode of transmission to humans
is civets."

Chinese authorities have decided not to take any chances and have ordered the
slaughter of an estimated 10,000 civets by drowning them in vats of disinfectant
and incinerating them. Rats and other vermin are next on the list for
extermination.

Health authorities and police have been prowling Guangzhou's animal markets in
recent days, inspecting stalls and doling out heavy fines for those selling
suspect animals.

These tighter rules have hurt sales for traders just ahead of the Chinese New
Year, which starts Jan. 22, when many look to collect a little extra cash for
the holidays.

Like many other Chinese bazaars, animal markets in Guangzhou are abuzz with
energy and noise when business is good. Young women punch digits into
calculators or shout into cell phones to negotiate prices. Gloved workers in
soiled clothing accept huge deliveries from overloaded motorbikes and pushcarts,
or deliver sales pitches next to caged wildlife.

The markets can be disturbing for the faint of heart. The flies and stink are
zoo-like at best. Feces dot the ground, blood lines the gutters, and young boys
and girls sort through bird hearts and intestines.

Dogs, mostly brown and black mutts, are among the most common animals sold,
bringing about 50 cents a pound. They are killed on the spot, plunged into vats
of boiling water, spun in a machine to remove their hair, and then hurled to
someone who uses a cleaver for final cleaning.

Many Chinese aren't comfortable eating such animals, but there are plenty of
restaurants catering to those who are. They sometimes display what's on the menu
in cages outside the door.

Guangzhou residents say dog can help keep you warm during the winter, cat hot
pot can help ward off a cold, and eating a bald eagle is like popping Viagra.

Pig brains taste somewhat like mushy tofu, dog has the texture of stringy beef,
and snake meat is a bit like firm fish. Scorpions can be boiled in soup with
pork and turnips for a sweet flavor, or deep-fried and eaten like potato chips.

At one place that specializes in exotic birds on the outskirts of Guangzhou, cab
driver Zhong is fending off preteen girls who sing and play guitar for change.
He's working on some donkey and cabbage stew.

This restaurant doesn't serve civets, but it used to. The dish takes expertise
to prepare, because the creatures have glands that secrete a musk that leaves a
foul aftertaste.

Zhong remembers eating wild civets as a child, and how cheap and convenient the
dish was back then. In the age of SARS, those times seem distant.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Crammed into cages, dogs await their fate in an animal market in
Guangzhou, China. They are the most common animal sold in such markets, where
they bring about 50 cents a pound.

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              102 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 15, 2004, Thursday

CAFE CAPRICE'S INFUSION OF FUSION: BRINGING YOU THE WORLD ON A PLATTER

BYLINE: Dale Rice, AMERICAN-STATESMAN RESTAURANT CRITIC

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words


Fusion, for the most part, has been a flop in Austin.

The practice of blending techniques and ingredients from disparate places in a
single dish has influenced several failed restaurants -- such as Kaya Blue,
Collin B's and Demi Epicurious -- where the food was good but never caught on
with diners.

It also has been used by a number of local chefs in some of their more
"creative" -- and less successful -- dishes.

Now yet another new spot, Cafe Caprice, has infused its menu with a blend of
cuisines.

This time, though, I predict success. Caprice's fusion -- which the restaurant
calls "eclectic American cuisine" -- is subtle and graceful, perfectly matching
the ambience of the small bistro.

Replacing the longtime Basil's, which was one of the most romantic restaurants
in town, owners Paul (the chef) and Joani Constantine have given Caprice a charm
and grace of its own, with pale green walls, Roman shades at the windows and oak
tables and chairs.

On the plate, fusion is the order of the day. Two entrees that caught our eye,
for instance, were the rack of New Zealand lamb with Moroccan-spiced barbecue
sauce and Israeli couscous, and the seared New York strip with a warm plantain
salad and a Cuban orange-garlic sauce.

We opted for two equally global dishes: a pumpkin seed-crusted schnitzel ($19)
and tuna "larded" with asparagus ($23).

For the schnitzel (a German specialty), two pork cutlets were pounded thin,
coated with ground pumpkin seeds (a Latin American approach) and sauteed to
produce a tasty variation on the original. They were served with a
marsala-butter sauce, tri-colored spaetzle (small pastalike dumplings), tiny
asparagus, baby squash and delicious sauteed oyster mushrooms.

In the tuna, the thick fillet of fish was impaled with asparagus spears
(accomplished, the waitress told us, by a using a tool that French chefs
originally used to put lard into meat -- thus the name of the dish). Served in
several slices, with the green circles showing, the tuna was as attractive as it
was moist, tender and flavorful. It was accompanied by a huitlacoche sauce (made
from the Mexican corn fungi), sauteed mushrooms, baby squash and a creamy,
well-prepared polenta (an Italian staple). In both entrees, Constantine blended
flavors seamlessly. The unexpected combinations, such as a Mexican sauce with an
Italian starch and French-inspired tuna, might seem incongruous, but they played
off each other well.

To begin the meal, Caprice offers a selection of soups from around the world,
though no single bowl spans the globe.

The Thai curry and coconut shiitake soup ($6) was full of chicken, vegetables
and mushrooms in a moderately spicy broth of coconut milk.

The tomato bisque ($5) was a thick, rich soup in which the tastes of butter and
cream were pronounced, with a hint of anise.

As good as the the soups were (and they were very good), a fusion appetizer won
our stomachs: the shrimp and grilled corn salad ( $8.50). Chopped shrimp and
grilled corn were mounded on three crisp tostones, which were garnished with
garlic-lime crema and served over a salad of mizuna (a feathery Japanese green).

To round out the meal, two strikingly different desserts were appealing.

Made in-house, the plum and guava sorbets ($5) -- a scoop of each served in a
martini glass -- had strong fruit flavors and a nice smooth texture.

The chocolate mousse cake ($7.50), a dessert made by a local pastry chef for the
restaurant, was lovely to look at; the plate was garnished with raspberry and
creme anglaise sauces and a thick whipped cream topped with fresh raspberries.
The cake itself -- a small cube with a base of cake topped with mousse and
covered with ganache -- was a bittersweet delight, with little sugar to cut the
sharpness of the dark chocolate.

All of the food was accented by an enthusiastic server who appeared to enjoy her
work and was proud of what she brought to the table.

That's a combination that makes Cafe Caprice an admirable successor to Basil's.
Its blend of cuisines makes it a good addition to a city yearning to extend its
international reach.

drice@statesman.com; 445-3859

(from box)

* * *

Cafe Caprice

900 W. 10th St., 477-5576

Hours: 6 to 10 p.m. Tuesday to Sunday

Credit cards: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover

Wheelchair access: Yes

Wine: 15 by the glass ($6-$12), 65 by the bottle ($22-$75)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At Cafe Caprice, Joani and Paul Constantine serve 'eclectic American
cuisine,' such as the shrimp and grilled corn salad.

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              103 of 103 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 18, 2004, Sunday

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 4642 words


It's been one year since you've been

gone and we miss you dearly.

We miss your smile,

We miss your laughter,

We miss you sitting in your favorite

chair looking out the window.

Even though we've been through

good and bad and made you mad,

you'll always be our

#1 Dad and Grandpa.

Until then We Love and Miss You

Love Your Family!

Eileen Agnes (Welsh) Brigham, 87,

formerly of Concord, MA, died in

Austin, Texas on April 14, 2004, at

the Heartland Health Care Facility.

She was the wife of the late Thomas

A. Brigham, who passed away in

September, 2003. They had been

married for 61 years.

She was born in Boston, MA, on

Feb. 22, 1917, the daughter of the late

Mary Melinda (Gillis) and William

Welsh. Raised in Medford, MA, Mrs.

Brigham was a graduate of Medford,

MA High School. After graduation

she entered the nursing profession.

She was a member of the Eastern

Star. Eileen enjoyed her time working

at the Xavier High School in Con-

cord. In 1974 Mr. and Mrs. Brigham

retired to Austin, Texas.

Eileen was fun loving, generous, an

enduring friend, an excellent bridge

player, an accomplished golfer, a

good cook, a compassionate human

being, and a wonderful mother. She

loved her children with an uncondi-

tional, sacrificial love. Eileen was full

of life and loved life to the fullest

Mrs. Brigham is survived by three

daughters, Melissa Ferolito of Aus-

tin, TX, Eleanor Anderson and her

husband, Don of Bedford, TX, Bren-

da Cronch and her husband, Daniel

of Austin, TX; five grandchildren and

one great grandchild, two sisters, one

brother, a sister-in-law and several

nieces and nephews.

Burial will be at the family grave-

site in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Con-

cord, MA.

Barbara Brunson Copeland, age 58,

passed away on April 10, 2004, after

a courageous battle with cancer.

A memorial service will be held at

11:00 a.m. on April 24, 2004, at St.

Luke's United Methodist Church,

3471 Westheimer Road., Houston,

Texas.

Barbara was born on February 9,

1946, to Wallace and Elizabeth (Bet-

ty) Brunson in Houston, Texas. She

grew up in Lubbock, Texas, where

her father was petroleum geologist.

She graduated from Monterrey High

School in 1964 and Texas Techno-

logical College in 1968 with the de-

gree of Bachelor of Science in

Education.  In 1968 she moved to

Austin, Texas, to begin a teaching

career with the Austin Independent

School District.

In 1980 she entered the University

of Texas at Austin and received the

degree of Master of Education in

August 1981.

Barbara primarily taught 4th grade

at Dawson Elementary School and

Galindo Elementary School. Her

greatest pleasure in teaching was to

guide a child that was not having a

good educational experience to suc-

cess through motivation and disci-

pline. During her career, Barbara was

a member of a number of profession-

al organizations including Delta Kap-

pa Gamma Society, Alpha Delta

Kappa, and Kappa Delta Pi. After

teaching for 30 years, Barbara retired

in 1998.

In addition to her professional

organizations, Barbara was a member

of the Thankful Hubbard Chapter of

the Daughters of the American Revo-

lution and enjoyed serving on the

Host Committee of the Ex-Student's

Association of the University of Tex-

as at Austin. She gave many hours of

work to volunteer organizations in-

cluding Laguna Gloria Women's Art

League, Save the Children Founda-

tion, Ballet Austin Guild, and Wom-

en's Symphony League. Following

her retirement, she became active in

Assistance League of Austin and The

Settlement Club. She particularly en-

joyed working on Assistance League

projects Toy Cart at Children's Hos-

pital and Operation School Bell and

the Settlement Club Garage Sale.

Barbara received much love and

support from her Thursday Bible

Study Group.

Barbara is survived by her hus-

band of 29 years, James of Austin,

Texas; her parents, Wallace and Bet-

ty Brunson of Houston, Texas; a

brother, Dr. Wallace Brunson Jr.and

wife, Ann; and nephew, Trey of Santa

Fe, New Mexico, an uncle, Howard

Brunson and wife, Linda of Austin,

Texas; an aunt, Mrs. Donald Brun-

son (Elayne) of Baytown, Texas; and

numerous cousins.

Barbara's family would like to

thank Dr.Thomas Tucker and staff

of Southwest Regional Cancer Cen-

ter, Dr. Guido Tricot and the staff of

the Arkansas Cancer Research Cen-

ter, and the wonderful nurses and

staff of Seton Medical Center 7

North for their support during Bar-

bara's illness.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contri-

butions may be made to The Settle-

ment Home, 1600 Peyton Gin Road,

Austin, TX 78758, the Humane Soci-

ety of Austin and Travis County, 124

W. Anderson Lane, Austin, TX

78752; or the Myeloma Institute for

Research and Therapy, University of

Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 4301

West Markham, #776, Little Rock,

AR 72205-7101.

All Faiths Funeral Services-South

Austin, Texas

Henry (Indio) M. Alvarez Jr., of

New Braunfels, born October 10,

1954, passed away April 15, 2004, at

the Guadalupe Valley Hospital at the

age of 49 years.

Mr. Alvarez was preceded in death

by his father, Enrique Alvarez Sr.;

and grandparents, Seferino and Pau-

lita F. Martinez and Trini and Anas-

tacia Alvarez.

He is survived by his wife, Sylvia

P. Alvarez of New Braunfels; mother

and step-father, Lupe and James

Moore of Austin; daughters, Amy

Marie Alvarez of New Braunfels and

Rebecca Jean Alvarez of Austin;

sons, Henry P. Alvarez III of Seguin

and Joel P. Alvarez of Ft. Drum, NY;

sisters, Janie Alvarez of Austin and

Elida Alvarez of Austin; brothers,

Raymond Alvarez and wife Lucy of

Austin and Alfred Alvarez of HI;

two grandchildren, John (JohnJohn)

Cantu of New Braunfels and Kalista

Alvarez of Seguin; also numerous

other relatives and friends.

Visitation will begin Sunday, April

18, 2004, at 10:00 a.m. and continue

until service time on Monday. Funer-

al services will be Monday, April 19,

2004, at 2:00 p.m. at the Zoeller

Funeral Home. Burial will follow in

Comal Cemetery.

Arrangements under the direction

of Zoeller Funeral Home.

Fletcher passed away April 17,

2004. He was born 82 years ago in

Superior, Arizona.

During W. W. II Fletcher served in

the U. S. Navy while stationed at the

Applied Physics Laboratory, of The

Johns Hopkins University, Silver

Spring, Maryland; and worked on the

quality control program of the prox-

imity fuze. After the war ended, he

was employed as a physicist by APL/

JHU for 42 years. He graduated from

Catholic University of America in

Washington, D.C.

After retirement, he moved in 1985

to Austin, Texas, and was a consul-

tant at Ardex for 4 years. He was a

member of Onion Creek Club, Amer-

ican Legion and the Lamp Program

at the University of Texas.

He is survived by his wife, Doris;

and three sons, Fletcher and wife

Gayle, Randy and wife Diana, and

Gordon and wife Atsuko; four grand-

children and one great-grandchild.

The family wishes to thank Hos-

pice of Austin, Dr. Matthew Masters,

and the fine people at Westminster

Manor Health Care Center; especially

care givers, Varanda, Jennifer, Veron-

ica, Josephine, Denise and Charles,

Laura and Annette of Social Services

and Earline.

Funeral Services are private.

Arrangements by Wilke-Clay-Fish

Funeral Home, 2620 S. Congress,

Austin, 442-1446. You may view

memorials at www.wcfish.com.

Patricia Ann Elam, 52, of Round

Rock, Texas, passed away on Friday,

April 16, 2004. She was born on July

1, 1951, in Mountain Home, Arkan-

sas, to Henry Lee and Ruby Cox

Roberts.

Mrs. Elam was employed by AAA

Travel and was a long-time member

of the Austin Dart Association.

Mrs. Elam was preceded in death

by her parents.

She is survived by her husband,

Dale Elam; children, Dalena Salo and

husband Paul of Austin; Jessica Ha-

ley and husband Lance of Austin;

granddaughter, Sophia Salo; God

Sons, Thomas and Taylor Hutchens

and Jordan Jones; brothers, Gary

Roberts and wife Paula and Terry

Roberts and wife Debbie all of Ar-

kansas; sisters, Kathryn Cochrum

and husband Dennis of Missouri;

June Wyatt and husband Jerald of

Arkansas; and with special love for

Dawn, Deanna, Jamie, Christopher,

and Renatta.

The family would like to give

special thanks to Patricia's doctors:

Dr. Dennis Welch, Dr. William Betts

and Dr. John Wilbanks.

The family will receive friends

from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Sunday,

April 18, 2004, at Beck Funeral

Home, Round Rock, Texas. Funeral

services will be held at 2:00 p.m.

Monday, April 19, 2004, at Beck

Funeral Home with Rev. Terry Tope

officiating. Interment will immediate-

ly follow in I.O.O.F Cemetery,

Georgetown, Texas.

Pallbearers are Keith Hutchens,

Wes Adney, Robert Arnold, Tony

Garcia, Joel Tope, and Billy Brown.

Donations in memory of Patricia

may be made to Austin Hospice or

the American Cancer Society.

Arrangements under the direction

of Beck Funeral Home, Round Rock/

Austin, 244-3772.

Retired Staff Sgt. LeRoy C. Battle,

72, of Austin, passed away on Thurs-

day April 15, 2004.

He leaves to cherish loving memo-

ries his devoted wife; Evelyn Battle,

his children Alisa Warren, Valerie

Battle, Anthony L. Battle all of Chica-

go, Ill, and Kevin Williams of Austin,

Tx. He also leaves four grandchil-

dren, two great grandchildren, one

brother; Frank K. Battle, his nephews

and other relatives and friends.

Services will be held on Wednes-

day April 21, 2004, at 1:00 p.m. at

Rising Star Baptist Church. Inter-

ment at Cook-Walden Capital Park,

Pflugerville, Texas, at graveside all

family and friends are encouraged to

BRING a red or white balloon to be

released at graveside services.

Services have been entrusted to

Barry J.W. Franklin C.F.S.P and

King-Tears Mortuary Inc.

Sam Wooten left this world on

Friday, April 16, 2004, while sur-

round by his family. Sam left an

indelible mark on his world.

He never saw a nail he couldn't

hammer, a problem he couldn't fix, a

child he could not laugh with or a

fish he couldn't catch.

He was born in Brady, Texas on

May 27, 1925, to Silas and Georgia

Wooten.

Sam moved to Austin in 1947 with

his precious wife, Jean after serving

his country in the Navy as a medic.

He served in both WW II and the

Korean War.

After coming to Austin, Sam

worked as a surgical nurse at Brack-

enridge Hospital then at Wilson X-

ray. Years later he worked at

Glastron Boat Company until his

retirement in 1980.

He is preceded in death by his

parents, Silas and Georgia Wooten;

sister, Juanita Wooten Huff, and

brother, Clayton Edward Wooten.

He is survived by his wife, Jean;

daughters, Lana Boley of Wichita

Falls, Texas, and Myra Harbison and

husband, Glenn of Austin; five

grandchildren who were his pride

and joy, Christopher and Nathan

Harbison and Ashley Harbison No-

votny, all of Austin, and Brandon

and Clair Boley of Wichita Falls.

Visitation will be held from 4:00-

6:00 p.m., Sunday, April 18, 2004, at

Cook-Walden Funeral Home.

Funeral service will be held at 2:00

p.m., Monday, April 19, 2004, at

Heritage Funeral Home, 905 Bevans

Street, Menard, Texas. Interment will

follow at Rest Haven Cemetery in

Menard, Texas.

For those desiring, memorial con-

tributions may be made in Sam's

memory to Brackenridge Children's

Hospital or the Charity of your

choice.

Charles A. Zegub, 100, slipped

peacefully into the hands of his Lord

on April 16, 2004. Charlie was the

fourth of six children born to Leba-

nese immigrants, Louis Zegub and

Annie Mecey Zegub. Although raised

in Austin, it was Elgin that Charlie

called home. It was there that he

celebrated his 100th birthday on Jan-

uary 6, alongside family and friends.

As a young boy, Charlie sold news-

papers with his brothers at the old

Littlefield Building. He won school

spelling bees and was asked to sing

for parents at school programs. He

was a true jack-of-all-trades, owning

a candy store, shoe hospital and cigar

shop, as well as, managing two hotels

in Elgin during the war. As a young

man, he was a member of the Elgin

Lions Club and Odd Fellows. He and

his wife also owned an antique busi-

ness in Austin, where he often said

that she knew the business and he

was really only the security guard.

He was a very independent man,

living on his own until the age of 95.

We will remember Charlie as an avid

sports enthusiast and the mean hand

of dominoes that he played with his

"old cronies". He will be missed for

his many acts of kindness, his tender

heart and his clever wit.

Charlie was predeceased by his

wife, Victoria Audish Zegub.

He is survived by several nieces

and nephews.

The family wishes to thank every-

one at Elgin Golden Years and Sage

Brook Health Center for their loving

and quality care.

Charlie was a lifelong member of

St. Elias Orthodox Church. Liturgy

services will be at Cook-Walden/

Capital Parks Funeral Home in Pflu-

gerville, with funeral services at St.

Elias Orthodox Church, 408 East

11th Street, Austin. Interment will be

at Assumption Cemetery. Dates and

times of services are pending.

Ann May of Austin passed

away on April 15, 2004, at home after

a lengthy illness.

She was born on January 24, 1932,

in Hiteman, Iowa, to Ralph and

Amelia Simpson. Jo Ann retired

from Farm Bureau Insurance of

West Des Moines, Iowa, in 1986.

Locally she was an active member of

the Treasure of the Hills Senior

Center in Cedar Park.

Jo Ann was an excellent card play-

er, loved sewing and enjoyed garden-

ing. One of her favorite past-times

was crafting toys for Blue Santa. She

was a source of strength and wisdom

to her family. She enjoyed life and

laughter. Her grandchildren frequent-

ly "saved up" jokes to share with

Grandma. Her love and caring devo-

tion touched the hearts of all who

knew her.

Mrs. May is survived by her hus-

band of 54 years, Don May; daughter

Nancy Hayter of Austin; son, Jack

May and wife Joyce of Moline, IL;

two brothers, Bill Simpson of Mitch-

ell, SD, Ron Simpson of Knoxville,

IA; sister, Peggy Stevenson of Pan-

aca, NV; six grandchildren and three

great-grandchildren.

A daughter, Linda Snell, preceded

her in death.

Visitation will be held from 4:00

p.m. - 6:00 p.m., Sunday, April 18,

2004, at Cook-Walden Chapel of the

Hills Funeral Home, 9700 Anderson

Mill Road, Austin, TX.

A memorial service will be Mon-

day, April 19, 2004, at 2:00 p.m., at

Chapel of the Hills Funeral Home.

Memorials can be sent to the

American Cancer Society.

Please join us in honoring Jo Ann

by visiting our Memorial at

www.cookwalden.com. Through this

site we invite you to share your

thoughts and fond memories with

our family.

Trina Kay Andretti, 29, of Austin,

TX, died Wednesday, April 14, 2004,

at Brackenridge Hospital.

Trina was born in Great Falls, MT,

on November 20, 1974, and had lived

in Austin since 1999.

Trina was a motive power in the

world - one of the people that made

things work. She was a natural leader

with such energy, drive and determi-

nation paired with a vivacious per-

sonality that no one she met could

help but be endeared to her. Her love

for life was only surpassed by her

love of helping others and that help

was always given with an unforgetta-

bly warm smile. She discovered that

her natural calling was to be a Police

Officer and she was in the process of

fulfilling that dream. She will be

deeply missed by all of her family

and everyone else that she has

touched in her life.

Trina is survived by her husband,

Christopher Andretti; her father,

Richard Carpenter; three sisters,

Anna Perkins, Lisa Pimental, Bonnie

Carpenter; two brothers, Brandon

Carpenter and Darick Carpenter; nu-

merous nieces and nephews and in-

numerable friends. Other family

members included her mother-in-law,

Aida Andretti; father-in-law, David

Andretti; and sister-in-law, Kimberly

Bower.

She was preceded in death by her

mother, Elfonda Kay Carpenter of

Benton City, WA.

A Visitation will be on Sunday,

April 18, 2004, held from 7:00 - 9:00

p.m. at Cook-Walden Chapel of the

Hills Funeral Home, 9700 Anderson

Mill Rd., Austin.

Funeral Services will be held at the

Church of Jesus of Latter Day Saints

at 8140 Racine Trail in Austin, TX

78717 on Monday, April 19, 2004, at

11:00 a.m. Graveside Service will be

held at Evergreen Cemetery, Benton

City, WA, on Friday, April 23, 2004,

at 11:00 a.m.

In lieu of flowers, please send

donations to 100 Club of Central

Texas, 8500 Bluffstone Cove, Austin,

TX 78759, 1-512-345-3200.

Please join us in honoring Trina by

visiting our Memorial at www.cook-

walden.com. Through this site we

invite you to share your thoughts

and fond memories with our family.

Dorothy Love Schmitt, of Austin,

passed away Saturday, April 17,

2004.

She was born February 2, 1913, to

James Andrew Love and Cynthia

Stewart Love in Devine, Texas.

Dorothy married Henry L. Schmitt

on November 25, 1936, and was

married for 43 years. She was a

Charter Member of Tarrytown Bap-

tist Church.

Preceding her in death are her

parents, James and Cynthia Love;

sisters, Julia Moss and Rebecca Love;

and brothers, Raymond Chelsey

Love, James Woods Love and Tiney

David Love.

Dorothy is survived by her daugh-

ters, Dannye Lee Wilson and hus-

band, Robert F., and Judy S. Davis

and husband, William (Bill); grand-

children, Timothy Lee Davis and wife

Jan, Kimberly Davis Eubanks and

husband Michael, David William

Davis and wife Laura, Robin Wilson

Derton and husband, Dennis and

D'Ann Wilson Jordan and husband,

Robert. Great-grandchildren are Jen-

nifer Davis Autry, Wesley Louis

Davis, William Robert Davis, Avery

Love Eubanks, Davis Scott Eubanks,

Christina Nicole Davis, Ashley Love

Davis, Beth Ann Davis, Cindy Ann

Wilson, Christopher Derton and

James Emert. She is also survived by

special nieces and a nephew, Patsy

Garner, Bobbie Wallace and Jimmy

Moss.

Visitation will be held from 4:00 -

5:00 p.m., Sunday, April 18, 2004, at

Cook-Walden Funeral Home.

Funeral service will be at 1:00 p.m.,

Monday, April 19, 2004, in the Colo-

nial Chapel of Cook-Walden Funeral

Home, followed by interment at

Cook-Walden/Capital Park

Cemetery.

Pallbearers will be Tim Davis,

Cody Autry, Wesley Davis, Will

Davis, David Davis, Mike Eubanks,

Dennis Derton and Robert Jordan.

Honorary Pallbearers are Davis

Eubanks and James Emert.

In Loving Memory

of Sister Annie Mae (Peggy) Caine Mrs. Caine leaves to cherish herprecious
memory two sisters, BerniceF. Hart and Rose McCullough ofAustin; two sons, Van
Cain of Aus-tin and F.G. King of OK; niece, FayeCarson, and nephews, O.D.
McCul-lough (Pam), Glen Carson (Kathy),all of Austin; and numerous greatand
great-great-nieces and nephews;and other relatives, and friends.  Funeral
Tuesday, April 20, 2004,at 11:00 a.m., at Phillips-Upshaw &Richard Funeral Home,
1410 East12th Street, Austin, Texas 78702.Doctor Marvin C. Griffin Pastor
-Officiant.

Kenny Inmon Apr 18, 1963 - Jan. 29, 1999 "Peace, peace! He is not dead, he
dothnot sleep - He hath awakened from the dream of life." Shelley Our love,
beyond time and place hasno limit. We are together.  Mom and Dad - John and Kay

Matt was born on July 7, 1983, and

killed in action on April 9, 2004, in

Iraq, defending our freedom. He

earned the Purple Heart, Combat

Action Ribbon (in lieu of 2nd star),

Presidential Unit Citation, National

Defense Service Medal, Armed

Forces Expeditionary Medal, Opera-

tion Iraqi Freedom Expeditionary

Medal, Global War on Terrorism

Service Medal, and Sea Service De-

ployment Ribbon.

Matt is survived by his wife, Julie;

their unborn daughter, Mackenzie

Marie; brother and best friend, An-

thony; parents, Toni and Matt;

grandmother, Alice Macalik; and

many special aunts, uncles and

cousins.

Matt joined the Marines on Sept.

24, 2001, and proudly served his

Country. He was a field radio opera-

tor assigned to the H & S Company,

2nd Battalion, 1st Marine Division.

"Greater love has no one than this,

that he lay down his life for his friends."

John 15:13 NIV

The Matula family requests that

memorials be given to Trinity Epis-

copal Church, P.O. Box 633, Marble

Falls, Texas 78654-0633 for the Mat-

thew E. Matula Memorial Fund.

Visitation will begin on Monday

evening April 19, 2004, from 5:00

p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Sunset Funeral

Home. Funeral Service will be con-

ducted on Tuesday April, 20, 2004,

at 12:00 Noon in Sunset Funeral

Home Chapel follow by Interment at

Ft. Sam Houston National Cemetery

in San Antonio, TX, with full mili-

tary honors.

Sunset Funeral Home, 1701 Austin

Hwy., San Antonio, TX. 78218

Clair Neyland, age 52, of Austin

passed away on April 16, 2004. She

was born at Lackland AFB Hospital

to Lt/Col Mayo W. Neyland III,

USAF (Ret) and Elizabeth Flanagan

Neyland.

She is survived by her mother,

Elizabeth Neyland; two brothers and

their wives, Mayo and Bobbi Ney-

land of Pflugerville and Bruce and

Trisha Neyland of San Antonio; two

nephews, Mayo Neyland and wife

Stefanie of Pflugerville and Mathew

Neyland of USMA, West Point, New

York; and two nieces, Alexandra Gib-

bons and husband Wesley of Pflu-

gerville and Elizabeth Neyland of

Texas A&M, Galveston.

Clair graduated from The Univer-

sity of Texas in Austin in 1974 and

had been a resident of Austin since

that time. She loved and was loved

by her many friends through her

association with Rosemary's Cater-

ing and as a member of the board of

the Star of Texas Fair and Rodeo.

She loved her dogs Bailey and Jordan

and the beach at Port Aransas.

Memorial services will be held at

10:30 a.m. on Monday, April 19, 2004

in the chapel of Weed-Corley-Fish

Funeral Home.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contri-

butions may be made to the Multiple

Sclerosis Society, Lone Star Chapter,

8111 N. Stadium Dr., Suite 100,

Houston, TX 77054.

Arrangements by Weed-Corley-

Fish Funeral Home, 3125 N. Lamar

Blvd., Austin, TX 78705 (512) 452-

8811. You may view memorials online

at wcfish.com

Dorothy Jean Kratzer, of Austin,

formerly of Lubbock, passed away at

her home on Friday, April 16, 2004,

at the age of 75.

Dorothy was born on September 8,

1928, in Ralls, Texas to Robert and

Lillian Teston. She was a former real

estate agent and also worked in

property management. She was an

active church member for most of

her life. Most recently, she's been a

member of the First Baptist Church

of Pflugerville. She had many pas-

sions including genealogy and cook-

ing. Her most cherished passion was

spending time with and taking care

of her family and her husband of 60

years, Keith. They will always re-

member her as a loving wife, mother,

grandmother and great-grandmother.

Her family will miss her terribly, but

will always cherish her memory and

legacy.

She is survived by her husband,

Keith Kratzer; daughter, Sharon

Kessler; son, Kenneth Kratzer; broth-

ers, Jerry, Bill and Wayne Teston;

grandchildren, James Wilkerson, Me-

lissa Krause, Lindsey Kratzer, Holly

Kratzer and Klint Kratzer; and five

great-grandchildren.

The family will receive friends

from 5:00 - 7:00 p.m., Sunday, April

18, 2004, at Cook-Walden/Capital

Parks Funeral Home where services

will be held at 10:00 a.m., Monday,

April 19, 2004. Interment will follow

immediately in the Cook-Walden/

Capital Parks Cemetery.

Klint Kratzer, James Wilkerson,

Rusty Teston, Lonnie Kessler, Nick

Krause and Terry Vaughan will serve

as pallbearers.

Blasa G. Santa Ana, passed away

Thursday, April 15, 2004, at Christo-

pher House in Austin, Texas, at the

age 98.

She was born to Antonio Galan

and Urbana Perez on February 3,

1906, in Villa Aldama, Nuevo Leon,

Mexico.

She was preceded in death by her

parents; husband, Romulo C. Santa

Ana; sons, Romulo G. Santa Ana

and Antonio Santa Ana; and daugh-

ter, Amalia Santa Ana.

She is survived by daughters, Blasa

Saucedo of Irving, Aurora Dodd of

Austin, Consuelo Hooker of Pomo-

na, CA, and Vera Martinez and

husband, Arthur of Austin; son,

Robert Santa Ana and wife, Janille of

Fort Worth; also 17 grandchildren, 27

great-grandchildren and 16 great-

great grandchildren.

The family will receive friends

from 4:00 to 8:00 p.m., Sunday,

April 18, 2004, at Cook-Walden Fu-

neral Home, with recitation of the

Rosary at 6:00 p.m.

Funeral Mass will be celebrated at

10:00 a.m., Monday, April 19, 2004,

at Our Lady of Guadalupe Church,

1206 E. 9th Street. Interment will

follow at Austin Memorial Park

Cemetery.

Special thanks to Hospice Austin,

especially to Tania Watkins, True

Hart, Elizabeth Aguirre and Deacon

Dick Orton for their wonderful lov-

ing care and to Christopher House,

and to her primary caregiver, daugh-

ter, Aurora Dodd.

For those desiring, memorial con-

tributions may be made to Hospice

Austins Christopher House in Mrs.

Santa Ana's honor.

John Andrew Croom Jr. passed

away on April 15, 2004, in Denton,

Texas, at the age of 93.

He was born in Dardanelle, Arkan-

sas, on January 10, 1911, to John A.

Croom and Jessie Lee Pryor Croom.

He was reared in Arkansas and

Mississippi; attended the University

of Mississippi and graduated from

the University of Oklahoma in 1934.

John served as a Major in the

Army in WWII and was stationed in

Ft. Belvoir, Virginia, Ft. Dupont,

Delaware, and Ft. Richardson in An-

chorage, Alaska. He met his wife,

Louise Anne Gallagher, at Ft. Du-

pont, and they married May 27, 1944,

at the Little Church Around the

Corner in New York City. After

WWII, John had a lengthy career in

the insurance business in Texas and

retired from Fireman's Fund in 1976.

After retirement, he continued to

share his knowledge of the insurance

business and taught at Leonard's

School of Business. He was a mem-

ber of Southmont Baptist Church.

John is survived by his daughter

and son-in-law, Jayne and David Bos-

ton of Aubrey; his son and daughter-

in-law, John and Mindy Croom, of

Austin; four grandchildren, Leigh

Boston Dorton and her husband Eric

Dorton of Denton, Loren, Adrian,

and Betsy Croom of Austin; and one

great-grandson, Frank Dorton.

John was preceded in death by his

wife, Louise, on November 30, 2001.

The family wishes to thank the

caring staff of Merrill Gardens, the

nurses of Denton Regional Medical

Center, and Dr. Mark Ginnings for

the loving care given during his last

illness.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may

be made to the charity of choice.

Visitation will be from 5:00 to

6:00 p.m., Sunday, April 18, 2004, at

Mulkey-Mason, John Schmitz and

Son Funeral Home.

A graveside service will be held at

10:00 a.m. on Monday, April 19,

2004, at Roselawn Memorial Park of

Denton, with Dr. Larry Reynolds of

Southmont Bapitst Church

officiating.

Mulkey-Mason, Jack Schmitz and

Son Funeral Home, Denton, Texas

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman
