
                               1 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

Environmental terrors

BYLINE: Editorial Board, Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 392 words


As anthrax anxiety mounts, it may be worth noting that inhaling polluted air is
far more likely to prove fatal to the average Texan than inhaling rogue bacteria
spores.

Yet it's surprisingly difficult to mobilize government and citizens to attack
air pollution or any of the other threats to health and prosperity linked to
global climate change. Rather than attacking the problem, we're still arguing
about whether it's real.

But unless we change our ways quickly, we can expect a parade of horribles that
will cripple the Texas economy and damage health, warns a group of scientists.

A new report predicts that global warming is likely to have profound effects on
Gulf Coast states, including Texas. Water shortages, water-borne diseases,
deaths from summer heat and ozone-laden air, floods and coastal erosion make
appearances in an unhappy outlook for Texas. Damage to East Texas forests, a
declining cotton crop, declining tourism, lousy fishing and loss of wildlife
habitat also make the list.

"We need to think about these issues and start planning for the future," said
Evan Siemann, a Rice University professor who was among scientists presenting
the data this week. The report, funded by the Union of Concerned Scientists and
the Ecological Society of America, focused on how climate change would affect
the Gulf Coast over the next 50 to 100 years.

What should we do to prevent these changes? The university and government
scientists who drafted the report suggest changes that should by now sound
familiar. Use less fossil fuel and thus reduce carbon emissions that contribute
to climate change. Quit wasting and polluting our drinking water. Initiate
long-range plans to conserve farmland, marine life, forests and recreation
areas.

Attacking the environmental terrors we've created will not be as easy as taking
a name-brand pill. It will take a lot longer than 60 days. Nobody's going to
make a quick profit. But preserving life and economic health by saving the
environment is something Texans need to do.

We ignored a lot of somber reports on terrorism until cataclysm got our
attention. Let's not do the same with climate change.

(from box)

More information

To read the report, "Confronting Climate Change in the Gulf Coast Region," see
the Union of Concerned Scientists Web site, www.ucsusa.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               2 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 5, 2001, Saturday

Warming to the subject

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 437 words


They're calling it "Climate 101." It's a series of classes in global warming
being offered to selected members of the George W. Bush administration.

One of Bush's first official acts as president was to renounce a campaign pledge
to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. The action was controversial -- these
emissions contribute to the "greenhouse effect" believed to raise global
temperatures.

One reason for the course is to help Bush and his advisers devise an alternative
to the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement on emissions reduction that
Bush rejected last month.

At one early session in the crash course, Dr. James Hansen, a government climate
expert, used a one-watt Christmas tree bulb to warm things up, according to
Andrew Revkin of The New York Times. A variety of scientists and economists are
teaching the class, and diverse views are sought, Revkin noted.

The public should hope this home schooling proves helpful.

*

At least one smile seen. This was a hard week in the Texas Senate, as passions
over a hate crimes bill flared, a two-senator fight almost broke out over a
lending bill and anti-nuclear-dump protesters were evicted. A coping mechanism
adopted by Austin Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos was to cover the computer screen at
his desk with a large-scale autographed "glamour shot." The million-dollar smile
gracing the senator's desk was that of former model Kathy Ireland, in town
recently to celebrate a golf tournament bearing her name.

Anything that keeps the politicians cool and happy gets our vote.

*

Cutthroat coupons. Ebay, an online auction service, has drawn attention over the
past few years for its unusual and sometimes disturbing postings.  Just this
week, the site pulled a listing for what was advertised as a piece of the front
door from the building where Amadou Diallo was shot to death by New York police.
And the company set May 17 as the start date for a ban on anything relating to
Nazi Germany, the Ku Klux Klan and notorious criminals.

But far below such high-profile items are everyday postings that are almost as
bizarre. One recent search of the site found listings for all kinds of grocery
coupons, including frenzied bidding over sets of Pampers Points, UPC codes that
can be used to buy toys in a special promotion. In many cases, people are paying
more for the points than for the actual items for which they can be redeemed.
Also listed were such treasures as vacuum cleaners with shorted-out power cords,
pre-owned swimwear and a set of shower gel and lotions, "only half-used." Going
once?

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gonzalo Barrientos // Kathy Ireland

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               4 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 12, 2001, Tuesday

News Focus: GLobal Warming//President seeks new warming research,; Bush will
have to defend his opposition to Kyoto treaty on trip to Europe

BYLINE: Ken Herman, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 713 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush, unconvinced by the science so far, on Monday
announced new studies of global warming while defending his opposition to the
Kyoto Protocol aimed at battling it.

Bush said "reasonable people" cannot back the unratified 1997 treaty on global
warming, which includes mandatory caps on the emission of pollutants that
contribute to the greenhouse effect that some say raises world temperatures.

Ahead of a trip to Europe, where he will encounter leaders and protesters who
believe the treaty can work, Bush promised to spend more money to investigate
the warming of the Earth.

He created the National Climate Change Technology Initiative to help pay for
research at universities and national laboratories. Bush also pledged up to $25
million to help build climate observation stations in developing nations.

But Bush did not propose to cut gaseous emissions that scientists say are
helping to cause the planet's average temperature to rise slowly.

Bush's six-day European trip begins in Spain today and includes stops in
Belgium, Sweden, Poland and Slovenia, where Bush will meet with Russian
President Vladimir Putin.

European leaders have criticized Bush's rejection of the Kyoto treaty in March
and expect to raise the issue with him.

Speaking Monday in the Rose Garden, Bush called the Kyoto Protocol "fatally
flawed in fundamental ways." He acknowledged global warming is a problem but
said more study is needed. Despite a National Academy of Sciences study
requested by the White House -- and concluding that humans are a primary cause
of global warming -- Bush said "scientific uncertainties remain."

"The academy's report tells us that we do not know how much effect normal
fluctuations in climate may have had on warming," Bush said. "We do not know how
much our climate could, or will change in the future. We do not know how fast
change will occur, or even how some of our actions could impact it."

Bush said resistance to the treaty "should not be read by our friends and allies
as any abdication of responsibility." He said the United States should address
it by pursuing his energy policy, including increased use of nuclear energy. But
Bush remained resolute in his opposition to the 1997 Kyoto accord, which
includes mandatory restrictions on emissions, including carbon dioxide. During
the 2000 presidential campaign, Bush voiced support for mandatory limits on
carbon dioxide emission.

This year, Bush aides said that position was erroneous and based on a
misinterpretation of the Clean Air Act. Bush, who believes voluntary caps can
produce substantial improvement, has declined to back mandatory limits on
emissions.

Some environmentalists believe that any proposal without mandatory caps on
greenhouse gas emissions would be inadequate.

"The threat from global warming will continue to grow until these gases are
brought under control," said Michael Oppenheimer, chief scientist for the
Environmental Defense Fund and a supporter of the Kyoto accord.

But Bush said meeting the treaty's targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions
could harm the U.S. economy, resulting in layoffs of workers and price increases
for consumers.

"And when you evaluate all these flaws, most reasonable people will understand
that it's not sound public policy," he said.

The United States, with only 4 percent of the world's population, produces 20
percent of the man-made greenhouse gas emissions. Bush challenged that notion by
tossing another number into the equation -- the United States accounts for about
25 percent of the world's economic output.

Bush said the 1997 treaty would exempt two of the world's biggest polluters,
China and India.

Although supported by some European leaders, Romania is the only nation that has
ratified the agreement.

In Europe, protesters on Sunday took to the streets to protest Bush's
environmental policies.

In Washington, Sierra Club executive director Carl Pope likened Bush's
announcement to "commissioning a study on fire while your house burns down."

"The president should act now to cut global warming pollution with cleaner cars
and power plants, not more delay," Pope said.

You may contact Ken Herman at (202) 887-8382 or kherman@statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A protester wearing a Bush mask joins in a demonstration against global
warming in Tokyo on Saturday. The demonstrators demanded that Japan ratify the
Kyoto Protocol, a 1997 treaty outlining steps to fight global warming. President
Bush opposes the treaty but announced Monday that he plans to spend more money
on research.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               5 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 15, 2001, Friday

Bush, EU clash on global warming,
Meanwhile, about 10,000 people join in largest protest since he began his
European tour

BYLINE: Bob Deans, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 560 words


GOTEBORG, Sweden -- President Bush and his European counterparts clashed
Thursday over global warming, with the Europeans saying they would move to
implement the Kyoto climate treaty without the United States.

"We agree to disagree," Swedish Prime Minister Goran Persson said. "The European
Union will stick to the Kyoto Protocol and go for a ratification process. The
U.S. has chosen another policy."

Bush reiterated his objections to the treaty, but said: "We do agree that
climate change is a serious issue and we must work together. We agree that
climate change requires a global response, and agree to intensify cooperation on
science and technology."

Outside of the summit where Bush and 15 European leaders met, riot police used
horses and attack dogs to battle thousands of demonstrators assailing Bush's
conservative policies.

Police had arrested more than 200 people by Thursday night and had called in
reinforcements from other Swedish cities. More rallies are planned today and
Saturday as Bush continues to meet with leaders as part of a weeklong tour that
takes him to Warsaw today.

Earlier Thursday, an estimated 10,000 people marched through this port city in
the largest anti-Bush rally since the president began his five-nation European
tour Tuesday in Madrid, Spain.

Dozens of the demonstrators dropped their pants to wag bare bottoms toward the
luxury hotel where Bush stayed.

"I don't like the guy, so I'm going to moon him," said Adrian Lowander, a
20-year-old student who traveled 14 hours by train.

"It's not violent, but it's an insult," said Lowander. "He'll understand it."

Bush was kept far from the mooning crowd, which was partially eclipsed by a row
of strategically placed trams.

But some of the sentiment behind the street theater echoed into a formal summit
luncheon where Bush and the European leaders parted ways over the question of
how to deal with greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, that many scientists
say are contributing to global warming.

The Europeans affirmed their commitment to the 1997 Kyoto treaty negotiated
among some 160 countries. The agreement calls for industrialized nations to cut
carbon dioxide emissions by the end of the decade.

Bush believes the accord should be abandoned. He has created a Cabinet-level
task force to oversee research on how best to address global warming.

He believes the treaty would harm the U.S. and foreign economies and asserts
that it unfairly exempts developing countries.

European disagreements with Bush go beyond global warming.

Many here fear, for example, that his plans for building a strategic missile
defense system could ignite a post-Cold War arms race.

Others question his leadership style. They believe his decision to scrap the
Kyoto treaty, without advising or even consulting his European counterparts,
smacks of a swaggering go-it-alone approach.

Bush downplayed the criticisms and called for expanding the North American
Treaty Organization, the European Union and the World Trade Organization. He is
expected to build on that theme today in Warsaw when he lays out his vision for
enlarging Europe into a region of free-market democracies stretching from the
Atlantic Ocean to the Baltic Sea.

This article includes material from The Washington Post, The Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Bush, left, and first lady Laura Bush were greeted Thursday
by Swedish Crown Princess Victoria, along with Queen Silvia and King Carl XVI
Gustaf, in Goteborg, Sweden. $138:ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               6 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 7, 2001, Sunday

The Other Agenda

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. J4

LENGTH: 3753 words


Redrawing legislative and congressional districts will consume a great deal of
time during the 77th legislative session, but there are other changes that state
lawmakers want and need to make.

A budget for 24 months of state spending, beginning Sept. 1, always tops the
agenda. It, too, will be caught in the redistricting swirl but can't be left
incomplete.

Then, there are needs in the education and criminal justice systems, including
additional money to keep existing programs running. And already awaiting
consideration are proposals to reform the way the education and criminal justice
systems operate. Some add costs;, others are intended to reduce costs.

Business and commerce

Privacy

Issue: Protecting information about consumers from abuse.

Players: Rep. Patricia Gray, D-Galveston, head of the House Public Health
Committee; Sen. Jane Nelson, R-Flower Mound; Rep. Suzanna Gratia Hupp, R-Lampas
as; Texas Attorney General John Cornyn;, Consumers Union;, the Texas Association
of Business and Chambers of Commerce.

Analysis: Gray and Nelson are sponsoring bills to prohibit patient medical
information from being shared with employers and to ban drug companies from
using it for marketing. Hupp is backing a constitutional amendment to limit the
state's ability to share information from driver's licenses, gun permits and
other public forms.

Business interests will oppose most efforts to control the flow of information
over the Internet. Regulation should reside with the federal government, they
say.

The Association of Business and Chambers of Commerce saysnotes that federal
banking legislation allows customers to opt out of information-sharing programs
planned by their financial institutions. Some consumer advocates say consumers
may not be aware of their bank or brokerage's plans. Instead, they want
businesses to be banned from sharing customer information unless they get the
customers' explicit approval.

Outlook: It would be difficult for Texas to pursue privacy law-breakers outside
of Texas. That may be why none of the bills introduced or mentioned so far
includes a comprehensive Internet privacy policy for Texas.  Lawmakers and other
state officials don't expect a slew of privacy bills this session.

Internet taxation

Issue: Applying the sales tax to all Internet purchases

Players: Deputy Comptroller Billy Hamilton;, House Ways and Means Chairman Rene
Oliveira, D-Brownsville;, Rep. Rick Green, R-Dripping Springs;, AeA (formerly
the American Electronics Association);, NetPAC;, Texas Retailers Association;,
Texas Association of Business and Chambers of Commerce;, Texas Taxpayers and
Research Association.

Analysis: A 1992 U.S. Supreme Court decision prevents states from collecting
sales taxes from companies not in their states.

Many lawmakers and Gov. Rick Perry don't want to stymie the growth of
e-commerce. But since Texas depends on sales taxes more heavily than most
states, some fear that the state is giving up needed revenue. ( Estimates range
from $50 million a year to as much as $900 million a year by 2002).  Retailers
that operate only in the bricks-and-mortar world thinkbelieve the state is
giving online retailers an unfair advantage.

Last spring, a national advisory panel formed to study the issue disbanded
without agreeing on a solution. But as the fortunes of many e-commerce companies
have faded, the issue has lost its prominence, and many in the industry have
resigned themselves to the idea that the states will start asking them to
collect sales tax no matter where they're based.  The debate is now focusing
more on making the administration of sales taxes more uniform across state and
local boundaries so that Internet companies can collect them nationwide without
the burden of figuring out the correct rate for every customer.

Outlook: In December, the Streamlined Sales Tax Project, a group of
representatives from 30 states including Texas, endorsed model legislation to
simplify the ways states collect sales taxes. The action could be the platform
for a bill to ask out-of-state Internet retailers to collect Texas sales tax
while simplifying sales tax collection for all retailers.  However, the
technology industry may fight such a bill and probably hopes that the session
will pass without any changes.

Tort reform

Issue: Change the state's civil justice laws to make it more difficult to win
big court judgments against businesses.

n Players: Texans for Lawsuit Reform, led by Dick Weekley;, and Texas Civil
Justice League, directed by Ralph Wayne;. Texas Trial Lawyers Association; and
Texas AFL-CIO.

Analysis: Business interests got major "tort reform" legislation passed in 1995
and have been pressing for more. Legislators feel no urgency on this issue, but
business interests are the primary source of their campaign funds, so they can't
afford to dismiss it. This time, business wants more restrictions on
class-action lawsuits, limits on huge legal fees and more legal pressure on
plaintiffs to accept "reasonable" settlement offers.

Outlook: Will get respectful attention but not much change.

Education and teachers

School finance

Issue: Statewide teacher health care.

Players: Sen. John Carona, D-Dallas; Rep. Harryette Ehrhardt, D-Dallas; the
Senate Finance Committee chairwoman; Rep. Robert Junell, D-San Angelo, chairman
of the House Appropriations Committee; several statewide teacher groups;, Texas
Association of School Boards.

Analysis: Teacher groups and some lawmakers want the state to guarantee all
public school employees will have uniform health care coverage.

State law now requires that districts make available a health care plan
comparable to that offered to state employees, and districts spend about $1
billion a year to do that. But coverage varies dramatically from district to
district, with some failing to offer any plan.

Teacher groups argue that standard health care coverage would go a long way
toward addressing the state's teacher shortage. Lawmakers are likely to discuss
other proposals to improve teacher recruitment and retention, including allowing
more retired teachers to return to the classroom without losing retirement
benefits and providing mortgage assistance.

Some proponents want to create a combined health insurance plan for current and
retired school employees. The idea may appeal to legislators who face bailing
out the financially strapped health care system for retired teachers, expected
to need at least an extra $460 million for the next biennium.

But the steep price tag for a statewide teacher insurance program could dampen
support. A special House committee determined it would cost between $2.5 billion
and $3.3 billion the first year.

Some bills already filed call for a plan in which the state, districts and
employees would share the costs.

Outlook: The Legislature will probably try to fashion a health plan for current
and retired school employees. But districts and employees would likely have to
share the cost.

Higher education

Issue: Access, quality and affordability among Texas' colleges and universities.

Players: Gov. Rick Perry and his Commission on 21st Century Colleges and
Universities; Higher Education Coordinating Board members; Sen. Teel Bivins,
R-Amarillo, chairman of Senate Education Committee; Rep. Irma Rangel,
D-Kingsville, chairwoman of House Committee on Higher Education; various
officials from Texas colleges and universities.

Analysis: Gov. Rick Perry has promised to make higher education a priority.

In recent years, state officials have warned that if Texas does not graduate
more students from higher education institutions, the state will face an
increasingly unskilled and undereducated work force and lower family-income
levels. State education officials envision ratcheting up the profile of its
institutions, boosting enrollment and providing more scholarships.

Some of the longer-term issues will require more time to fashion, but lawmakers
may take a number of steps this session.

Several lawmakers want to pump more money into the TEXAS Grant Program, which
provides assistance to college students with financial need.  Lawmakers
established the program with $100 million two years ago, but that is expected to
run out within four years. The Higher Education Coordinating Board is requesting
another $119 million for the program.

There appears to be widespread support for making the state's
college-preparatory curriculum the standard high school curriculum in Texas. But
that means adding courses and teachers in higher-level classes, prospects that
could cost money and possibly pose problems given the current teacher shortage.

Outlook: Lawmakers may try to find more money for grants and make a
college-preparatory program the standard curriculum for high school students.

Environment

State parks

Issue: Tight budgets -- for repairs as well as expansion -- cloud the future for
state parks and wildlife areas.

Players: House Appropriations Chairman Robert Junell, D-San Angelo; Senate
Natural Resources Chairman Buster Brown, R-Lake Jackson; Andrew Sansom,
executive director of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department; Carol Dinkins,
vice chairwoman of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Commission and chairwoman of the
governor's task force on conservation.

Analysis: Rapid population growth is increasing demand for outdoor recreation at
the same time that more open space is being lost to development. In addition,
many state-owned natural and cultural jewels have become tarnished by lack of
maintenance, inadequate staffing and political meddling. Other states --
Florida, California and New York, to name the leaders -- have committed hundreds
of millions of dollars, or even billions, to conservation.

A blue-ribbon task force appointed by former Gov. George W. Bush recommended
expansion of the state's public lands, coupled with a program to purchase
development rights from farmers and ranchers and thereby keep rural land wild.
Similar recommendations have emerged from the Sunset Advisory Commission and
from studies by Texas A&M University and Texas Tech University.

Public opinion polls show strong support for increased spending to conserve
land, water and wildlife. But backing is uneven in the Legislature, where
conservation has historically been a second-rung concern after education,
prisons, health care and roads.

Outlook: Legislators, ever mindful of the bottom line, have in the past been
reluctant to launch a major conservation initiative. The flurry of
recommendations, and especially the Bush panel's report, might well signal a new
era.

Environmental regulation

Issue: The state's environmental and water-planning agencies are undergoing
"sunset," the periodic legislative review required for all agencies.

Players: House Environmental Regulation Chairman Warren Chisum, R-Pampa; Senate
Natural Resources Chairman Buster Brown, R-Lake Jackson; Senate Border Affairs
Chairman Eddie Lucio Jr., D-Brownsville; Texas Chemical Council; Texas
Association of Business & Chambers of Commerce; Lone Star Chapter of the Sierra
Club; Public Citizen; Public Interest Sunset Working Group; Valley Interfaith.

Analysis: Texas has historically had a light regulatory touch. But addressing
persistent environmental problems, such as air pollution, will require a firmer
hand. There is wide consensus on the utility of a carrot-stick approach, but
environmentalists want more stick, and ndustry wants more carrot. Lawmakers are
likely to use the opportunity to revise policy on air quality, water pollution,
dams, water supply, low-level radioactive waste, border sanitation and
enforcement.

One point of debate is whether the Texas Natural Resource Conservation
Commission responds adequately to citizen complaints and allows sufficient
citizen participation in regulatory hearings and evidence-gathering.  Activists
want economic development stripped from the agency's mission statement.

Proposed dams, water transfers and the ecological health of rivers and bays will
dominate debate on statewide water planning, which is overseen by the Texas
Water Development Board. Many people in the border region still lack modern
water and sewer services, despite an ambitious federal-state program run by the
development board.

Lawmakers will reprise a debate that stalled two years ago on whether management
of low-level radioactive waste should be privatized.

n Outlook: Lobbying will be lively. Environmental policy is certain to be
revised but probably not as much as conservationists hope and industry officials
fear.

Government

State worker compensation

Issue: Raises for state workers

Players: House Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Junell, D-San Angelo;
the Senate Finance Committee chairman; Sen. Mario Gallegos, D-Gallena
ParkHouston; Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos, D-Austin; Texas State Employees Union;,
Texas Public Employees Association.

Analysis: State employee salaries lag behind the private sector's by more than
in the past, especially in Austin's lucrative job market. Of the 10 largest
states, only Georgia pays its state workers less than Texas. And employee groups
say the benefits that have historically attracted workers to the state are
dwindling.

All of the above has contributed to an exodus from state jobs, with turnover at
17.58 percent in 1999.

Although the state's workers received a raise of $100 a month in 1999, their
first in six years, rising prescription drug costs have led to higher health
insurance premiums and out-of-pocket expenses that eat into a large portion of
that. The rising cost of living in Austin, home to many state employees, has
also exacerbated their feeling of being cheated out of an avidly sought raise.

Outlook: A state auditor's recommendation for raises comes with a nearly $1
billion price tag, one that will be hard to sell.

The budget

Issue: Paying for unexpected costs in the current state budget and passing a
budget for the 2002- 03 fiscal years, which run from Sept. 1, 2001, to Aug. 31,
2003. The new budget will likely exceed $100 billion.

Players: Every lobbyist, lawmaker and state official; the Senate Finance
Committee chairman and House Appropriations Committee chairman .

Analysis: As one of their first acts, lawmakers will likely approve an emergency
appropriations bill to pay for up to $700 million in unexpected prison and
Medicaid costs in the current budget. The state has enough unexpected tax
revenues for it .

Officials will then have between $1 billion and $2.2 billion in unexpected
revenues left to roll into the new budget -- the smallest surplus in nearly a
decade.

Agencies have submitted a wish list that includes billions of dollars in new
spending, but top lawmakers have ruled out some of those requests, including a
$544 million proposal to build more prisons.

The priciest new program in the next budget may be a statewide teacher's health
insurance plan, which could cost more than $3 billion a year.

Outlook: Unlike the past two budgets, the 2002-03 budget will not include many
major new spending initiatives or tax cuts. Learning a lesson from the overruns
in the current budget cycle, lawmakers will also try to keep spending well below
the constitutional limit.

Health and human services

Medicaid reform

Issue: Eliminating some barriers that critics say keep eligible children from
enrolling in Medicaid.

Players: House Public Health Committee Chairwoman Patricia Gray, D-Galveston,
and Vice Chairman Garnet Coleman, D-Houston; House Human Services Committee
Chairman Elliott Naishtat, D-Austin, and Vice Chairman Glen Maxey, D-Austin;
Senate Human Services Committee ChairwomanJudith Zaffirini, D-Laredo; low-income
advocacy group;, the Center for Public Policy Priorities.

Analysis: Two legislative committees have proposed that Texas simplify its
process for enrolling children in Medicaid, and an Austin-based federal judge in
August issued a scathing ruling , saying that Texas had not fulfilled its
promise to provide all eligible children access to preventive health care
through Medicaid. Among the state's 1.4 million uninsured children, about
600,000 are eligible for the program but not enrolled.  Advocates say proposed
changes would significantly help put more children on the rolls.

Outlook: A hard fight. The proposals for reform come as the state's Medicaid
budget has fallen short of projected costs by about $439 million for the 2000
and 2001 fiscal years, largely because of the rising cost of prescription drugs.
Human services agencies are asking for about $1 billion from the Legislature to
cover the shortfall plus new expenses.

Criminal justice

Life without parole

Issue: Adding life without parole as a sentencing option in death penalty cases.

Players: Sen. Eddie Lucio, D-Brownsville; Sen. Rodney Ellis, D-Houston; Rep.
Ruth McClendon,; D-San Antonio; Texas Criminal Defense Lawyers Association;,
state prosecutors.

Analysis: Judges and juries have two options in capital murder cases: the death
penalty and life in prison, which allows defendants to become parole eligible in
40 years. Bills filed by Lucio and McClendon would offer life without parole as
a third option. Similar legislation failed two years ago after prosecutors
opposed it, arguing that the current system works fine.  Defense lawyers will
lobby in favor of the bill.

Outlook: Prosecutors could help kill it again, but Lucio is hoping public
support will help push it through the Legislature.

Execution of inmates

with mental disabilities

Issue: Banning the execution of inmates with mental disabilities.

Players: Rep. Pete Gallego, D-Alpine; Rep. Juan Hinojosa, D-McAllen; Sen. Rodney
Ellis, D-Houston; prosecutors;, defense lawyers.

Analysis: Executing people with mental disabilities -- a separate issue from
executing people with mental illness -- has become a contentious moral issue and
provided fuel for critics of Texas' death penalty system. Under Hinojosa's bill,
defendants who can prove mental retardation would be sentenced to life in prison
if convicted of capital murder. Prosecutors have argued against the idea, saying
juries should continue to decide whether mental retardation is grounds for
leniency. Defense lawyers support the bill.

Outlook: A similar proposal passed the Senate but died in the House of
Representatives two years ago. Supporters think the legislation has a fair
chance of becoming law, but it is likely to have a rough ride again.

Hate crimes

Issue: Changing existing hate crimes law to increase the punishment for crimes
motivated by prejudice because of race, color, disability, religion, national
origin or sexual orientation.

Players: Sen. Rodney Ellis, D-Houston; civil rights groups, gay and lesbian
groups, law enforcement associations, women's groups, religious leaders,
conservative religious groups.

Analysis: Texas' little-used 1993 hate crimes law is vague on which groups are
supposed to be protected from crimes motivated by prejudice.  Ellis has spent
the past three sessions trying to include specific groups, only to see his bills
die each time. In 1999, after James Byrd, an African American from Jasper, was
dragged to death behind a pickup, the hate crimes bill died in Senate committee
under opposition from conservative interest groups.

Outlook: Ellis hopes to push this legislation through on the fourth try with the
backing of a broad coalition of supporters, but it's anyone's guess whether the
climate at the Capitol has changed enough in two years for success.

Indigent defense

Issue: Providing better legal defense for those who cannot afford a criminal
lawyer.

Players: Sen. Rodney Ellis, D-Houston; Rep. Juan Hinojosa, D-McAllen; Texas
Appleseed Project; Texas Criminal Defense Lawyers Association; Texas Association
of Counties; state judges;, and perhaps the newly elected chief judge of the
Court of Criminal Appeals, Sharon Keller.

Analysis: Several recent studies and unfavorable national publicity during
former Gov. George W. Bush's presidential campaign focused attention on the
haphazard way state and county governments in Texas provide legal defense to
those too poor to afford their own lawyer, especially in capital murder cases.
The Legislature indicated a willingness to take steps toward improvement last
session, such as requiring that lawyers be hired quickly for those accused of a
crime, but Bush vetoed the bill.

Outlook: The Legislature may prove willing to do things that will require little
or no money, such as requiring quick appointment of a lawyer to represent a
criminal defendant and setting statewide standards for those lawyers. But it
seems much less likely it will be willing to spend a lot of money or order
radical change.

The Legislature on the Web

Information about Texas' House and Senate, lawmakers, meeting schedules and
pending legislation is available at various sites on the Internet, including
some fee-based services.

* State of Texas: www.state.tx.us -- A free service from the state.  Contains
links to all state agencies and other information about the state.

* Texas Legislature Online: www.capitol.state.tx.us -- A free service from the
state. Includes full text of bills filed, full text of state laws and the
constitution, the House and Senate schedules and links to state agencies.

* Texas House of Representatives: www.house.state.tx.us -- A free service from
the Texas House. Includes links to live and archived audio of select committee
hearings and live audio and video of House sessions.

* Texas Senate: www.senate.state.tx.us -- A free service from the Texas Senate.
Includes links to information about the lieutenant governor and information
about Senate hearings and schedules, as well as live Senate sessions.

* TELICON: www.telicon.com -- A fee-based service with the full text of bills,
laws and other information about the Legislature.

* GalleryWatch: www.gallery watch.com -- A fee-based service with the full text
of bills, laws and other information about the Legislature.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A group of teenagers wait their turn below as Perla Ramos climbs a rock
wall at Emchanted Rock State Natural Area.//Gov. Rick Perry, center, unveils
higher education plans with Jim Adams, left, chairmam of a commission on
colleges and universities, and Sen. Rodney Ellis.//Gonzalo Barrientos//Rob
Junell//Elliott Naishtat//Then Lt. Gov. Rick Perry, center, meets with Sen.
David Sibley, R-Waco, left, and Sen. Royce West, D-Dallas, on may 14, 1999,
during a Senate attempt to forge a bipartisan hate-crime bill.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               8 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 11, 2001, Monday

President likely to get cold reception on European trip,
Bush's policies on global warming treaty, missiles fuel hostility toward U.S.
before talks

BYLINE: Bert Roughton Jr., American-Statesman International Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 531 words


LONDON -- President Bush can expect a warm welcome Tuesday morning when he
begins his maiden tour of Europe with a stop in sunny Spain. After that, things
are likely to turn chilly in a hurry.

The president comes to Europe at a time when hostility toward him and the United
States is at its highest level in years.

Anger and frustration have been gathering in Europe over a series of foreign
policy moves by the Bush administration. Among them are the unilateral decision
to dump the 1997 treaty negotiated in Kyoto, Japan, on so-called greenhouse gas
emissions, a fresh push for the controversial missile defense system and a plan
to abandon the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.

Those divisive topics and others will confront Bush in key meetings at NATO
headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, on Wednesday and during a summit Thursday of
European Union leaders in the Swedish city of Goteborg.

The talks -- the first time the new president will have met many European
leaders -- promise to be prickly, said Michael O'Hanlon, an analyst at the
Brookings Institution in Washington.

"I think part of it is personal, and part of it is atmospheric," O'Hanlon said.
"Let's face it, U.S.-European relations are not off to a great start with this
administration. There are a number of irritants that we've had with the
Europeans, and vice versa."

It is perhaps no surprise then that the former Texas governor, who speaks some
Spanish, decided to begin his visit in Spain, which is led by one of the handful
of conservative leaders in Europe, Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar.

Relations between the United States and Spain are generally rosy, and Aznar is
eager to show off his newly prosperous country to the leader of the free world.

Yet demonstrators intend to dog the president even in Madrid and throughout his
trip.

Greenpeace intends to stage a series of demonstrations, largely to complain
about Bush's decision on the Kyoto accord. Gerd Leipold, the new executive
director of the global environmental group, last week labeled Bush an "extremist
politician" who committed "crimes against the environment."

"Next week, President George Bush is making his first visit to Europe," Leipold
said at a news conference last Wednesday. "We are waiting for him."

Greenpeace will be among about 30 groups, including Oxfam and Amnesty
International, planning a demonstration Wednesday outside the U.S. Embassy in
Brussels when Bush visits NATO headquarters.

The State Department is warning Americans traveling to Sweden to be ready for
trouble on the streets outside the European Union summit, which begins Thursday.

Louiseweis van der Laan, a Dutch member of the European Parliament who lived in
the United States for nine years -- including a few years in Texas -- thinks
Bush is just culturally and politically out of sync with most Europeans.

"It's a little bit sad that the president of the United States, for all that
America has represented to Europeans since the war and afterwards, would be
greeted in Europe by demonstrations," she said. "This just shows you how much
things have deteriorated."

You may contact Bert Roughton Jr. at bertr@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               9 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           March 14, 2001, Wednesday

Bush changes stance on emissions; Carbon dioxide regulations are no

BYLINE: Ken Herman, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 812 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush backed off a position he took as a candidate and
said Tuesday he will not impose federal regulations on carbon dioxide released
by the nation's power plants.

The decision, detailed in a letter to four Republican senators, drew
condemnation from the Sierra Club and other conservationist groups that believe
reducing emissions of "greenhouse gases" such as carbon dioxide is crucial to
reducing global warming.

Bush said in his letter that the Clean Air Act does not define carbon dioxide as
a pollutant. He also said federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions would
be ill-timed and ill-advised.

The letter cited soaring energy costs in the West as one reason for Bush's
reversal.

"At a time when California has already experienced energy shortages, and other
Western states are worried about price and availability of energy this summer,
we must be very careful not to take actions that could harm consumers," he told
Republican Sens. Larry Craig of Idaho, Jesse Helms of North Carolina, Chuck
Hagel of Nebraska and Pat Roberts of Kansas.

Carbon dioxide, produced by the burning of fossil fuels such as coal and oil,
has been cited by researchers as a gas that traps heat in the atmosphere and
leads to rising worldwide temperatures.

The administration has been lobbied heavily by the coal industry, which opposes
regulating carbon dioxide and questions its role in global warming.

On the campaign trail last year, Bush said global warming seemed to be a fact of
life. In his letter Tuesday, he cited "the incomplete state of scientific
knowledge of the causes of, and solutions to, global climate change and the lack
of commercially available technologies for removing and storing carbon dioxide."

During the presidential campaign, Bush offered a plan that he said would cut
emissions and "significantly improve air quality." His proposal included
legislation calling for "mandatory reduction targets for emissions of four main
pollutants: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and carbon dioxide."

But by Tuesday, the quartet of pollutants had been reduced to a trio.

"I intend to work with Congress on a multipollutant strategy to require power
plants to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury," Bush
said in the letter, adding that he backs phased-in reductions that include
"market-based incentives."

Carbon dioxide got knocked from the list, Bush said, because it "is not a
pollutant under the Clean Air Act." Bush aides on Tuesday said they did not
realize that during the campaign.

The administration cited a recent Department of Energy report that said limits
on carbon dioxide emissions would cause an "even more dramatic shift" from coal
to natural gas to generate electricity, a change that Bush said would lead to
"significantly higher electricity prices."

"This is important new information that warrants a re-evaluation, especially at
a time of rising energy prices and a serious energy problem," Bush said.

Bush's letter noted that coal generates more than half of the nation's
electricity supply.

This month, Christie Whitman, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency,
indicated the president was ready to treat carbon dioxide as a pollutant subject
to federal regulation.

"George Bush was very clear during the course of the campaign that he believed
in a multipollutant strategy, and that includes carbon dioxide," Whitman said on
CNN's "Crossfire."

It was comments such as those that sparked the four senators to seek Bush's
views on carbon dioxide emission regulation.

Bush said he remains committed to looking for solutions to global warming, but
Tuesday's move drew skepticism from critics, such as the Sierra Club, who have
doubted Bush's commitment to pollution control.

"We are deeply disappointed that Bush is making a U-turn on his campaign promise
to curb global warming," said Allen Mattison, a Sierra Club spokesman in
Washington. "By curbing carbon dioxide pollution, Bush had an opportunity to
take a significant step toward reducing this threat to our children's futures.
Bush bowed to what appeared to be heavy lobbying pressure by big business and
industries."

Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, called Bush's move an "abrupt reversal" that
threatens efforts to craft a bipartisan response to global warming.  But Hagel
said Tuesday night that Bush's rejection of the regulation of carbon dioxide
emissions clears the way for lawmakers to look for "innovative and market-based
approaches to reduce greenhouse gas emissions."

American-Statesman Washington writer Jena Heath contributed to this report. You
may contact Ken Herman at kherman@statesman.com or 202 887-8382.

Christie Whitman: EPA head said Bush would support carbon dioxide rules.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Bush: Says carbon dioxide isn't a pollutant under Clean Air
Act.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               11 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 8, 2001, Thursday

Warming up to good ideas

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 252 words


Can Central Texas save the world from the dangers of global warming? No, but if
we do our part, we just might wind up saving our own skins.

The steps we can take to reduce gases blamed for global warming are pretty much
the same steps needed to preserve our treasured quality of life and fend off the
federal ozone-pollution police.

The Austin City Council might hold that idea in mind today when reviewing a
staff proposal for curbing the increase in carbon dioxide emissions by 2010.

The council asked for the plan after Austin joined 40 other U.S. cities and
dozens of international regions in the Cities for Climate Protection Campaign.
The campaign's goal is to reduce carbon dioxide levels 20 percent below 1990
levels by 2020. The council adopted that as a local goal in 1996.

The strategies proposed will sound familiar: conserve electric power and find
cleaner power sources, reduce commuter traffic, recycle waste and plant more
trees.

The staff figures that carbon dioxide emissions in Travis County totaled 9.6
million tons in 1990. If we don't get serious about curbing increases, they'll
total almost 17 million tons by 2010. Power plants and vehicles are the prime
culprits for the emissions, believed to play a role in climate change. With
population rising fast, returning to pollution levels of 1990 may be a pipe
dream. But that's no reason not to act decisively.

Whether we do it for us or for the world doesn't matter much. It needs doing.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               12 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 16, 2001, Friday

WWW: It's not all smut and porn in Austin's Web Light District.

BYLINE: Omar L. Gallaga American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Technopolis; Pg. F3

LENGTH: 2550 words


Jenn Ramsey was feeling a little naughty that day.

On the day that her life was to change, her goals for the future altered
forever, she walked into an adult video store.

Ramsey had driven past the store, Talk of the Town in San Marcos, thousands of
times. This time, curiosity got her -- she finally decided to see what
mysterious goods were hidden inside. Ramsey, who is married but considers
herself open about the subject of sex, found it difficult to even enter the
shop.

"It was mortifying," says Ramsey, 28, an Austinite who works in advertising. "I
was surprised by my own reaction."

Ramsey figured she couldn't be the only woman who found it difficult to have her
curiosity satisfied by the intimidating brick and mortar walls of adult stores.
Delving further into the subject by looking online, Ramsey found that even the
Web, the bastion of browse-at-home privacy, wasn't a place where many women
could feel comfortable visiting sex-related sites.  "Many of them are slimy and
in-your-face," Ramsey says, "there's a huge embarrassment factor."

So she started her own adult Web site with the goal of providing a more elegant
place for women to explore their sexuality. Her site, launched in November,
features erotic stories, essays about sexuality and will soon include an area to
buy adult merchandise -- all with the goal of removing the stigma that Ramsey
says places a gulf between women and adult content on the Web.

"I want to do for adult content what Victoria's Secret has done for lingerie,"
Ramsey says. "I want it to be just another shop at the mall."

Ramsey's site is barely a drop in the vast ocean of sex-related sites. In
Austin, several Web site owners are trying to enter the crowded adult Web
business. While some owners are building small sites based on specific content,
others have plunged into the industry and are making a living taking advantage
of the never-ending demand for sex on the Web.

While some adult site owners, like Jenn Ramsey, walk the line between working
their mainstream jobs by day and fleshing out their adult sites by night, others
are finding they can make a living on the adult Web. Local adult site owners say
they've started their pages for a variety of reasons: Self-expression, a desire
to add their opinions and sexual predilections to what's already out there and,
most commonly, to make money.

The digital skin trade

While the frontier days of the Internet, when adult sites seemed to be the only
thing you could find on the Web, are over, sex sites have remained the one
consistently profitable business segment of the Internet.

While the dot-com industry gasps for air, adult sites have gone through
consolidation to become even stronger in the mainstream than they were in the
mid-'90s. And as faster Internet connections mean adult sites can offer more
content traditionally cornered by home video (streaming video, live Web chats),
the business shows no sign of slowing down.

And here's the biggest secret of the Internet that few mainstream businesses
will admit to: The Web's Red Light District has consistently driven the rest of
the Internet, innovating in areas like banner advertising, streaming video,
credit card use through e-shopping baskets and subscription-based content.

So says Frederick Lane III, a non practicing lawyer who wrote "Obscene Profits:
The Entrepreneurs of Pornography in the Cyber Age." In his book, Lane describes
an online adult market that is worth nearly $2 billion a year, about
three-fourths of it from subscriptions. In the last few years, he says, adult
sites have played a significant role in making consumers comfortable with using
credit cards online and finding ways to deliver multimedia content over slow
Internet connections. The online adult industry, Lane says, will grow
indefinitely, led by high-flying companies like Internet Entertainment Group, a
multi million dollar Web firm that first gained infamy over its legal battle in
broadcasting stolen sex videos of celebrity couple Pamela Anderson and Tommy
Lee. IEG's legal win cleared the way for adult entertainment conglomerates to
find success by breaking rules that don't even exist yet. "If you look at our
society as a whole, it seems pretty clear that we're getting more accepting of
sexual materials as a culture," Lane said. "Even if there's a slowdown in the
Internet industry, adult sites are fairly recession-proof. It's a product that
there is fairly strong and steady demand for."

Even a 1998 research report from market research firm Forrester Research
predicted that innovations from adult sites -- editing images with "watermarks"
to prevent stolen content, pop-up browser windows and "cooper-tition,"
communities of competing business that work together -- would be ubiquitous. Not
only have these business tools become common on the adult Net, but they've
infiltrated mainstream Internet business as well.

So what drives the demand for adult content? If we are indeed a culture of
puritans being ushered into a new administration that promises a turn away from
Lewinsky-era sexual frankness, why do so many people visit adult sites and how
is it that they continue to profit while much of the Internet struggles? Lane
and others who watch the industry, say the privacy of shopping for adult content
at home and the pervasiveness (if not the perverseness) of the content itself
(like Visa, it's practically everywhere you want to be, online) keeps people
coming back.

Consider this: In the early 1980s, when much of the adult industry chose to
distribute its video in the VHS format, the rival Betamax format died on the
vine.

Adult sites drive the Web, Lane says, and as adult sites charge $9.95 to $24.95
a month for their services, they are riding high on a sea of cash.  It doesn't
hurt, either, that studies claim four out of every 10 people using the Web have
visited an adult site in the last week.

And as long as there are readers out there who want adult content, there will
continue to be enterprising new Web site owners who think they've got a new take
on the oldest game in town.

The adult videophile and the dominatrix

Content Knowles, a longtime Austin resident and self-described former
dominatrix, says she found she could make money and promote her business at the
same time by creating Web sites that turned different parts of her personality
into full-blown Web personas.

To date, Knowles, a part-time jazz singer who lives comfortably in South Austin,
owns more than 30 working Web sites. Since she began learning to build Web pages
in 1997, she's created a string of stand-alone projects that, through
advertising deals with other sites, allow Knowles to work from home on her own
terms and make a living exclusively through her Web work.

"I think of them as jobs," Knowles said. "I had a product to sell -- me. They're
performance-related things that I do. They help me find my self-identity as an
artist."

After struggles with Internet service providers and a huge learning curve about
the business of making advertising money through her sites, Knowles says she's
gone from promoting herself as a dominatrix on the Web to pushing herself into
mainstream content, applying the lessons she learned in the adult world to her
latest pet project, Coolfreesamples.com. That nonadult site makes money from her
referrals to product samples on other Web sites. The thrill of producing and
offering adult content, she says, pales next to the challenge of being a
businesswoman and learning to make money on the Web.

"Business is an art," Knowles says. "It's just so damned interesting to me."

Knowles speaks quickly and knowledgably about the way the business world and the
adult entertainment industry intersect; the fact that she's made money from her
Internet work puts her far ahead of many dot-com CEOs in terms of financial
success. While a site she built over just a few hours may only attract 1,000 or
2,000 hits a day, the number of sites she owns, each feeding traffic into the
next, turns into a tsunami of click-throughs and income. And the subject of sex
and the way people respond to it online, she says, is one that will never cease
to fascinate her.

Neil Blank, another would-be sex entrepreneur, started his site based on his
affinity for porn. On his site, Blank offers detailed reviews of adult films.
Working a day job at a print shop, Blank first experimented with Web sites about
billiards. "The thing with pool players is they play pool.  They don't get on
the Internet," Blank said. He had better luck attracting Web visitors when he
decided to start writing adult film reviews and putting them online.

When his employer's board of directors learned of his plans to start an adult
site, he was fired. His attempts to incorporate his company, Smuttco Inc.,
initially met roadblocks." Three banks in town refused to open an account for me
because it was a sexually oriented business," Blank said.  Eventually, he got
set up through a bank in California and a Web host in Florida. Slowly, his site,
launched in 1999, grew through subscriptions to about 250 paid users. After a
recent visit to an adult expo in Las Vegas, Blank says his site will soon become
profitable as his reviews are syndicated to other adult sites hungry for
original content. With his small group of free-lance writers, Blank recently
transformed his site from a subscription-base to a place that offers his reviews
to readers for free.  His site currently receives about 9,000 visitors a day.

He says he's become a recognized figure in the adult industry, as film
directors, actors and actresses have praised him on his reviews. "It's really an
amazing thing," Blank said, "On the Internet you can be as big or as little as
you want to be."

Blank says it's possible his small adult site will begin making profits in the
hundreds of thousand of dollars. "And I don't know that there's a ceiling on
it."

Another Web site owner, Rick Hunter, says he makes a comfortable living from a
string of adult sites he owns, including a site featuring nude photography he's
done. "I don't want to say how much I make, but I couldn't make as much if I had
a doctorate in just about anything," Hunter said.

Hunter got into the business three years ago when a roommate advised he might
want to create adult sites, instead of just surfing them. "Next thing I know I
was making $3,500 in the first month I started," he said.

Hunter is currently working on a string of Texas-centric sites that will feature
local adult businesses and links to area Web sites.

Morals, laws and a new president

Lynn Raridon, the owner of Austin's Forbidden Fruit adult stores, has become a
kind of patron saint for those starting up adult sites in Austin.  That's
because Raridon, in her 20 years of running an adult business, has dealt with
lawyers, vice cops, competitors and local obscenity laws she says are more
lenient in Austin than in the rest of the state.

She cites Austin's "intelligence factor" as a reason that adult businesses can
succeed here, where an obscenity ruling based on community standards is more
difficult to achieve.

Raridon's Web site for Forbidden Fruit launched in early October and is close to
breaking even with its monthly maintenance cost, she said. What started as a way
of promoting her business online has become a Web boutique where customers can
order unique products from area artists.

Raridon has seen political climates change and says she isn't worried that the
new George W. Bush administration may take a harder line on adult sites, a
concern that's spreading through the adult industry. "We don't have hard-core
content on our site," Raridon said. "I think we're going to fall outside the
bounds of it, but it does feel like it's gonna get a lot tighter."

The relative anonymity of the Web makes it difficult for prosecutors to pursue
many cases against adult site owners. During the Clinton administration,
Attorney General Janet Reno targeted child pornography for prosecution, but
largely left mainstream adult content alone. That may change with the political
climate, but Lane said it would still be difficult to stem the flood of sex on
the Web. "I think you've not seen a lot of prosecutions because Reno was
sensible enough to realize that the time and money you spend on increasingly
borderline cases is vastly disproportionate to the good you do," Lane said.

Locally, the Internet bureau of the state attorney general's office has
aggressively targeted child pornography and child enticement through the
Internet, but has so far left other online adult businesses alone. "Adults
willingly visit these sites by their own will," said Tom Kelley, a spokesman for
the attorney general's office. "Unless you're talking about clearly jailable
offenses, it's not something we're involved in."

For adult Web site owners, however, local laws are still a concern .

When Ramsey started her site with the intention of selling products on the Web,
she sought advice from Raridon. One of her first moves was to get a lawyer and
to study up on Texas obscenity laws. "Texas is a very hard place to run an adult
site," Ramsey said. "If you have a choice, you do it somewhere else." Many adult
site owners have their sites hosted in states such as California or Florida to
avoid legal issues. Others who sell products online house their goods in
out-of-state locations.

But for Ramsey, dealing with the peculiarities of her new business also included
fielding concerns from her parents and husband. "He's happy for me," Ramsey says
of her husband. "He just wishes I'd chosen another topic."

As for her parents, the first thing her mother asked when she started the site
was, "Do you need money?" Austin's dirty

little secret

The relative anonymity of the Internet and the geographic facelessness of the
Web means anybody anywhere can run an adult site. Your neighbors may be having
sex and broadcasting it to the world via a Web cam. A site created at someone's
desk at an Austin start up may play host to sexually explicit online chats. A
rack of servers at an Austin Internet service provider may contain gigabytes of
pornographic images and compressed Web videos. An apartment complex may be host
to a "voyeur-dorm"-style 24-hour video feed.

The acceptance of adult Web site activity in Austin may owe itself to the city's
historical acceptance of alternative lifestyles, topless dancing and sex video
megaplexes. After all, the city's warehouse district was once Central Texas'
home for extracurricular sex.

Which is why it may seem that these Web site owners don't feel that they're
blazing trails, so much as joining a stream of Internet activity that promises
more acceptance and more opportunities for their sexual selves than any other
medium available.

In a great, vast ocean of fetish and mind-boggling extremes, Jenn Ramsey takes
comfort in that.

"I've learned that I'm soooo normal."

You may contact Omar L. Gallaga at ogallaga@statesman.com or 445-3672.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jenn Ramsey wants women to feel as comfortable visiting her adult site
as they do at Victoria's Secret.; Lynn Raridon, owner of Forbidden Fruit stores,
is known as a sort-of go-to person for those starting adult Web sites in
Austin.; Former dominatrix Content Knowles has moved into the mainstream with
Coolfreesamples.com.; Neil Blank wants to be the Roger Ebert of the porn
industry.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               14 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 3, 2001, Sunday

Who needs a gay hub? Following his interests leads to many friends

BYLINE: Michael Barnes, American-Statesman Staff and Sean Massey, Special to the
American-Statesman

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K11

LENGTH: 2072 words


History, architecture and gardening -- three of Peter Flagg Maxson's passions --
join forces in his Hyde Park neighborhood. Something else makes him feel at home
among the tree-lined streets and Victorian homes -- good neighbors.

"We live in a largely straight neighborhood," Maxson says of him and his partner
of 26 years, a businessman. "We are very open about being a couple, and our
house has been on the neighborhood homes tour as the home of two gents.
Neighbors seem very accepting."

An architectural historian, Maxson, 54, grew up in the prosperous Preston Hollow
neighborhood of Dallas, attending the private St. Mark's School.  Although aware
of his sexuality from a young age, he remembers Dallas as oppressively
conservative. College in Connecticut and graduate school at the University of
Virginia brought him closer to coming out.

"It was easy at UVA, since 50 percent of the male faculty and graduates in my
program were gay," he says. Still, it was illegal to serve alcohol to
homosexuals in Virginia in the early 1970s, so Maxson plugged into the
university town's active party circuit.

Today, Maxson is not invested in the club-centered gay scene.

"I don't go out to the bars," he says. "I enjoy the camaraderie of friends, gay
and straight, sing in the Capital City Men's Chorus and sit on the boards of
five nonprofit groups."

One of the galvanizing events of Maxson's life -- like many gay men of his
generation -- has been the AIDS crisis.

"Almost 100 friends and acquaintances have died," he says. "I miss them
terribly. There were times when we'd dread coming to choir rehearsal because
someone else might be missing."

He is not a big fan of predominately gay districts, although he visits them in
other cities.

"You cut yourself off from 90 percent of humanity," he says.

Maxson agrees with most other observers that Austin's gay community remains
incoherent, without a hub, but he has an explanation for that.

"When you are making friends, it's hard to please all ages, races, economic and
educational groups," he says. "So you end up spending time with a lot of people
with similar interests."

Maxson belongs to small gay groups with interests in gardening, opera and the
Episcopal Church. He'd like more programs aimed at middle-age and senior gay
men, perhaps an age-specific community center.

"It's still a reasonably scaled city of educated people who are politically
progressive," he says of Austin. "It's also culturally, musically active. I like
all that. But more for older men would be nice."

Life in the suburbs much different than in the '80s

Gay life in the city is one thing. Thriving as a lesbian couple in the suburbs
is another.

Yet Teresa "Tita" Delisi and Debby Merritt cherish their Round Rock home and
love the congenial Central Texas culture.

"There's just the sense that you're in a community," says Merritt, a social
worker. "And I'm not speaking about gay-lesbian community -- just the feel of
the place. The people are really friendly."

Merritt, an Illinois native and longtime resident of Phoenix, moved to Round
Rock two years ago with her partner, Delisi, a nurse. In the 1980s, Delisi had
lived through unfriendlier times in Williamson County, when she endured a nasty
custody battle over her now-adult son.

"I got married right out of high school," Delisi says. "Thought that's what I
was supposed to do -- in a Catholic family, you got married. When I grew older,
I realized something was missing from the relationship."

Delisi said her husband was a good father, and, for a while, theirs was an
amicable divorce. But when her ex-husband remarried, she faced a three-year
custody fight.

"It set a precedent in Texas courts," she says. "I was the first lesbian to get
custody back from a husband. It cost over $30,000 to get through this whole
thing, and I kept running out of money. The community threw musical benefits and
garage sales. I got anonymous gifts from donors."

Former Austin Mayor Jeff Friedman also took her case pro bono. Having won the
landmark case, Delisi and her son, needing a break from the exposure, moved to
Phoenix, where she met Merritt. There, she faced an even more conservative
climate, but she appreciated the city's predominately gay district and community
center.

Delisi, who returned to Texas to be close to relatives and take over the family
house, thinks the Central Texas lesbian community is less active than 20 years
ago.

"For me, the community back then would have been softball women, the bookstore,
the flannel shirt club, and although I was never much a bar person -- I'm very
allergic to smoke -- there was that," she recalls, "Now it seems really hard to
find information about what's going on in the gay and lesbian community. The
first thing we did when we got here, one of the first things, was to find Book
Woman. Thank goodness it was still there."

She entered the feminist bookstore and asked: " 'What's happening? Where are the
newsletters? Where can we go?' They said: 'Well, you know, Gabby and Mo's. But
there's just not much going on anymore.' "

Merritt also misses a social focal point. Austin's Cornerstone Lesbian and Gay
Community center dissolved, to much public distress, several years ago.

"I was pretty involved in getting the gay and lesbian center in Phoenix going,"
she says. "It's something that I think whenever life slows down a bit, it's
something that can be done here. I think we learned a lot of lessons back there
that could transfer here to Austin."

Still, Merritt has fallen hard for Central Texas.

"Tita brought me here to visit her family at the time," she says. "So I fell in
love with Barton Springs. I was like, 'OK, I think we gotta move here, or right
there on that grassy area outside of Southwest Texas (State University), where
the river runs through it.' "

Delisi senses slow changes in the social climate of her suburban county, which a
decade ago split over Apple Computer Co.'s domestic partner benefits.

"I know Williamson County in general is much more conservative than Travis
County. Always has been," she says. "In fact with the custody case, the very
first thing we did was move my case from Williamson to Travis. And it's still
the same up here. However, the Round Rock of yesteryear and Round Rock today are
different. I can already see it's melding -- I mean, Austin is coming this way,
and Round Rock is going that way."

He's proud of the way his hometown is growing up

Michael Jones, who was once an aide to former Gov. Ann Richards, has been a
careful observer of Austin's changes.

Michael Jones is competent at mobilizing the levers of power. Son of a senior
district judge and a pediatric nurse, Jones, 32, acted as both legislative and
executive aide to former Gov. Ann Richards while still in his 20s. Later, he
served as a lobbyist in Washington, D.C. The native Austinite even speaks in the
careful, reflective manner of someone who is considering a run for public
office.

"Austin is in an adolescent phase," he says. "It's experiencing growing pains,
going from a small, sleepy, liberal city to a larger, more urban city, making
adjustments, dealing with the diversity of its people. Sure, there is traffic
and sprawl, but it's still a wonderful place to live because of the people."

Jones endured relatively few hardships coming out in Austin and is acclimated to
the city's integrated straight and gay cultures.

"My parents have gay friends," he says. "Being gay hasn't been much of an issue
in my life. I see myself as a person who happens to be gay."

Now a real estate agent, Jones also encounters few obstacles with his employers,
J.B. Goodwin Realtors.

"They are sensitive in a natural way," he says. "It's a local Austin company
that doesn't perceive it as an issue -- some people have same-sex spouses; some
don't."

As a lifelong Austinite, he has watched lesbians and gay men cluster somewhat in
neighborhoods undergoing upward transition -- for instance, Clarksville, where
he lives, South Central Austin, and areas such as Wilshire Woods and French
Place on the near east side.

"Well, gays and lesbians were willing to move there because they foresaw the
closing of the old airport," he says of those East Side neighborhoods.

Although Jones, who is single, lived for several years in the gay-dense Dupont
Circle neighborhood in the nation's capital, he is just as comfortable being
identified as gay and out in his hometown.

"We are cops, lawyers, butchers, bakers, trash collectors," he says. "We are
just ordinary people."

Once terrified to come out, he's now a major voice

Eugene Sepulveda glides through corporate Austin with the ease of an informed
insider. A finance and marketing consultant for national accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Sepulveda sits on philanthropic boards, lobbies the
city, state and federal governments through political organizations and gains
access to the highest levels of influence in Texas.

Not bad for a still-young man whose Latino parents never finished high school.
Growing up in Northwest Houston, Sepulveda chose to attend Texas A&M.

"I received a full scholarship at Yale University," he says, "but was invited to
live in a special minority dormitory. That was a turnoff. So it was A&M."

Sepulveda, a banker after graduating, then a chief financial officer for a
semiconductor company, did not come out until his early 30s. Before that, as he
was exploring his first gay romances, he remained terrified of public discovery.

"I thought the worst thing in the world that could happen was to be outed," he
says. "So, I developed a suicide pact with myself in case someone tried to
blackmail me."

Sepulveda first met his current partner, Steven Tomlinson, who teaches economics
in UT's School of Business and also writes and performs plays, in 1993 at a
Planned Parenthood meeting about religion. Much later, they romanced and now
share a renovated house in the Harris Park neighborhood.

Along the way, Sepulveda has transformed his success in the financial world into
influence in charitable and political arenas. He was the point man for getting
out the gay vote in Capital Metro's light-rail referendum.

"For years, politicians have realized that the gay vote counts," he says.  "And
gay people look to organizations such as Austin Lesbian and Gay Political Caucus
to see how to vote."

While political himself, Sepulveda is not intolerant of gay people who prefer to
get on with their lives.

"I think the people who say their sexual orientation isn't a big part of their
lives don't want to organize their life around that," he says. "Yet I find it
hard to believe that anyone, upon reflection, wouldn't acknowledge that their
sexual orientation and the experiences that they've encountered -- the fear, the
anxiety, for instance -- mean nothing."

Sepulveda thinks the Internet is changing everything about how lesbian and gay
people interact.

"Even closeted people have ready access to information on the gay community," he
says. "Before, there might be people who weren't going to step into a bar or who
weren't going to go to Lobo's Bookshop to pick up a Texas Triangle," he says.
"To the extent that the Internet is a part of their lives, now anyone can seek
out information."

On the whole, Sepulveda is happy with Austin's gay culture.

"When you go out anywhere, you see gay couples at a table or you see gay couples
embracing in public," he says. "I think Austin has always been so much more
liberal than the rest of Texas. The gays and lesbians have always felt
relatively more welcome and relatively more safe. I use 'relatively' because it
doesn't mean you felt welcome and safe in the early '80s and the '70s.  But you
did feel more so than you did in Houston or Dallas, outside the gay ghettos."

He thinks gay community is what you make it.

"It's about shared experiences," he says. "I believe that all of us exist in
lots of communities. I believe that I exist in more communities than most people
because that's always been one of my objectives in life."

You may contact Michael Barnes at (512) 445-3647 or mbarnes@statesman.com and
Sean Massey at smassey@gc.cuny.edu.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter Flagg Maxson shows off his garden to neighbor Connie McMillan at
his Hyde Park home. Gardening is just one of his many hobbies. // Teresa Delisi,
left, and Debby Merritt love their Round Rock home, but Delisi had a rough time
here 2 decades ago when she was involved in a bitter custody dispute.// Michael
Jones, who was once an aide to former Gov. Ann Richards, has been a careful
observer of Austin's changes. // Eugene Sepulveda's corporate success propelled
him into the political arena. The financial consultant was the key person in
getting out the gay vote for the light-rail referendum.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               16 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 30, 2001, Sunday

Reflections, projections

BYLINE: Claudia Grisales, Jerry Mahoney, R. Michelle Breyer, Amy Schatz, Kirk
LadendorfLori Hawkins and Shonda Novak, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 3045 words


It was a year of trial and tragedy for business. Great expectations born in
flush times gave way to the harsh realities of a recession. The sagging stock
market took the wind out of consumer spending. Then came Sept. 11, and things
seemed to go from bad to worse.

Owners and executives of companies large and small had to make the toughest
decisions of their careers, including laying off valued employees. Long-planned
projects were shelved.

We asked a cross-section of Central Texas business people to reflect on a year
that tested their stamina, staying power and sheer courage, and to look ahead to
next year. How will this extraordinary year change the way they run their
companies? And what will be the early signs of a recovery?

Juan Cotera: The pain of downsizing

Juan Cotera, 65, is co-founder of Cotera, Kolar, Negrete & Reed Architects, the
lead design team of the new Austin City Hall. The native Texan started his firm
in 1972 with two people; it grew to 28 people earlier this year, but layoffs
have cut the staff to 19.

Defining moment: "The defining moment for us would be the design of City Hall.
It probably reflects one of the best hands-on community processes. The citizens
were the true client. We had a storefront location downtown, where people could
walk in and look at the model and write down their ideas, their likes and
dislikes. It started out with a lot of dissatisfaction, and now it's the
community's project, because everyone sees a little bit of themselves in it."

Lessons learned: "The great lesson for us is that you do long-term financial
planning, which is two to three years. We were working on one private developer
project that went on the shelf. And the lesson we learned is the kind of damage
that can do to a firm. The most damaging thing in the world is when you have to
downsize rapidly. We had to downsize from a staff of 28 to 19 in early 2001. A
firm like mine works much like a family; you don't just let them go, you worry
where they go and if you can find them when you upsize again.

So what we learned is that if you are going to have a very large project, we
have to balance it with other work. The lesson learned is you never stop
planning, even in the best of times."

Watching for: "The large companies that deal with construction, the developers,
tend to take advantage of a recession because they can get some projects started
and save some costs, and that means some faith that the economy is going to pick
up.

The effect of building in the recession is that it helps the recovery. For
example, the AMLI apartment project, the high-rise on Fourth and Congress, and
several others are going forward. That's a good sign.

There are also a couple of projects that have gone on the shelf, but most of the
projects have kept going. (The recovery) could take a year or two -- but that's
a fairly short span in the terms of economics."

-- Claudia Grisales

Reid Ryan: Hope blooms in spring

Round Rock Express President Reid Ryan was angry when the Texas League called
off the Double-A championship series on Sept. 13, and awarded the trophy to the
Arkansas Travelers. The Travelers led the best-of-seven series 2-0. But the
Express had dominated the club during the regular season, and a lot of people in
Central Texas hoped that the team would defend the championship it won in its
first year. Ryan, 30, has thought a lot about all that during the past three
months.

Defining moment: "The season is pretty much summed up by what happened on
September 11. We were in the middle of going for back-to-back championships.
We'd already reset the all-time attendance record for Double-A baseball. I've
never been around anything that did such a complete 180 right at what was kind
of the pinnacle of the year."

Lessons learned: "With everything that happened on the 11th, it really kind of
put in perspective what business is, what sports is, and what is important. And
really it comes down to family. In a lot of ways it was a good reality check,
because no matter how successful we think we are, or how successful we've been,
in the end it really doesn't matter. The important stuff is family and the
freedom we have here in America."

Watching for: "One of the reasons I feel real excited about next year is I think
we're going to be a desirable destination for people. People come out to watch
baseball, they come out to be entertained, they come out to, you know, enjoy a
summer night.

But more than anything, they come out to spend time with the person they decide
to come to the game with, whether it's family, or business associate or friend.
I've always felt like the minor-league game is not going to be affected as much
by swings in the economy as some of the other sports. With our (ticket price)
being $5 to $8 (for general admission), I think we become a higher priority to
people in times of an economic downturn. That's the most important thing: We
have to keep it reasonable."

-- Jerry Mahoney

Foo Swasdee: Recipe for success

Foo Swasdee, 54, a native of Thailand, opened Satay restaurant 15 years ago in
North Austin. Five years ago, she opened a second restaurant, Thai Noodles, on
Guadalupe Street near the University of Texas. Earlier this month, she opened a
second Thai Noodles in Round Rock. She also sells Thai condiments, which are
available at specialty stores.

Defining moment: "Earlier this year, I put a deal together with an investor for
a new Thai Noodle House in Round Rock. After September 11, my investor backed
out. I decided to put up the money myself. It opened December 12. The economy
did go down and September 11 did happen and I still decided to move forward.
We're packed for lunch every day. I'm still looking for a new location."

Lessons learned: "I think price point is the key. If you keep your price point
reasonable, you'll do fine. (At Thai Noodle House), sales are better than they
were last year. My price point was just right."

Watching for: "If my sales keep going up, I'll know the overall economy is doing
better."

-- R. Michelle Breyer

Walt Penn: 'A slick spot on the road'

In six years, Penn Investment Group has quietly grown into a $300 million asset
management firm. Its clients are doctors, lawyers and high-tech executives with
net worths between $1 million to $25 million. Founder Walter Penn, 44, generally
shuns publicity, relying on client referrals for new business. The firm's assets
under management have grown by an average of $50 million a year -- until 2001.

Defining moment: "Our sixth anniversary was on September 15. I had planned to
have a surprise for the office. We were going to have a big layout, just turn
the phones off and have some fun. Obviously, I cancelled it.

I would have expected that by the end of the year to be at $350 million (in
assets), but it stalled. Part of that is the market coming down. Part of that is
everybody kinda doing . . . nothing."

Lessons learned: "We're going to market. We can't sit back and expect (business)
to come to us anymore . . .

We've just hit a slick spot in the road. For us, it's not like we're hurting.
It's just that for the first time we haven't had growth . . . We need to retool
how we do our business. I've learned to sit down with everyone here at the firm
and become more efficient. You have to take on more and be able to handle that."

Watching for: "A lot of people out there are still calling me and saying they
have lots of cash. But they're paralyzed. They are saying, 'Gosh, I'm only
making one or 1 1/2 percent on my CD.' They don't have anything clearly that
they want to do with it. In the old days, they would have an idea. (Next year) I
just think that people will open up their checkbooks and start investing again
as opposed to building cash . . . When I see a dozen or so new clients, that
will be a real positive sign."

-- Amy Schatz

Kent Collins: Quicksilver economics

Kent Collins, 44, senior vice president of development for Post Properties Inc.,
is an architect by training. Collins joined urban apartment pioneer Post
Properties six years ago and has led the company's efforts in Austin and
Houston.

Post recently completed Post West Avenue apartments downtown but has postponed
plans for another development on West Fifth Street and pulled out of the
Triangle development in Central Austin, where it was to have built 875
apartments."

Defining moment: "We didn't really see this thing coming until this year, the
second quarter, when we started to see we were going to have layoffs of 14,000
in March. A lot of these people were our tenant base and those layoffs would
start to affect them. You combine those supply numbers with a falloff in job
growth and we knew it wasn't going to be a pleasant year."

Lessons learned: "We are truly a global economy and the speed at which things
can rise is the speed at which they can fall. The instantaneous nature of the
economy was brought home to me. It can be good or bad."

Watching for: "A rebound in job growth rates. That's household formation. Job
growth is the key for us."

-- R. Michelle Breyer

Judy Trabulsi: 'Whatever it takes' attitude wins out

Amid one of the worst years for advertising in a decade, Judy Trabulsi and her
three co-founders at Austin ad agency GSD&M had a relatively joyful year. The
firm celebrated its 30th anniversary and won praise for a new U.S. Air Force
recruitment campaign and for its patriotic "I Am an American" public service ad
finished just days after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Defining moment: "The most gratifying moment was producing the 'I Am an
American' campaign. I really believe that in our 30 years we've never seen a
response to anything we've done like that. The closest thing that came to it was
maybe 'Don't Mess With Texas.' We put together a booklet of some of the e-mails
we received. We did it for all the crew that helped all over the country.
They're some of the most moving e-mails I've ever read in my life."

Lessons learned: "The biggest lesson that I think we learned throughout this
year is that when you're blessed with a great corporate culture and have people
who care about the company more than themselves, you can get through the down
times and emerge even stronger.

The 'whatever it takes' attitude that our people have -- whether it was turning
around a new ad for our client in days, instead of weeks or months, or pulling
all nighters for the new business pitches that we had -- it really brought to
life our core values of community: that we're all in this together."

Watching for: "Actually, we're seeing a little uptick. The earliest indicator in
our business -- and it's always been a precursor -- is the media advertising
activity.

During the later part of the '90s, it was simply a seller's market. Over the
last 18 months it had totally switched into a buyers market. What we're seeing
now is slightly encouraging."

-- Amy Schatz

Terry Mitchell: 'A different economic climate'

Terry Mitchell, 46, vice president of Milburn Homes, has been with the company
for 10 years. During that time, Milburn has evolved from a privately owned
Austin builder into part of Arlington-based D.R. Horton Inc., the nation's
second-largest home builder. Milburn, which builds houses starting in the
$100,000 range, built 1,600 last year in the Austin area and expects to build
close to 1,500 this year.

Defining moment: "At the end of June, I looked at the sales report and said
'We're entering a different economic climate in a big way.' It was down pretty
significantly, abnormally low. We had been expecting a slowdown for several
years, thinking it can't continue at this pace. '99 was better than '98 and 2000
was off the charts of '99. For a couple of years, every home that was built by
any home builder was sold. There was an undersupply. That is an irrational
market. . . . After September 11, traffic dropped 40 percent."

Lesson learned: "We had been preaching to our people in '99 and 2000 that these
years were not reality. You could make mistakes and still sell your product.
That's not the case in a normal market. . . . Those that are surprised by this
downturn shouldn't be surprised. We just had the hottest two years in our
history. You have to come down to reality. If you do forget (there are cycles),
that's when you get in trouble. If you base your pro formas on everything being
up all the time, you'll be unpleasantly surprised."

Watching for: "Job growth, traffic in our communities. My hope would be that we
would have moderate growth. When it's too hot, it strains your infrastructure
and makes the cost of everything go up. People get sloppy."

-- R. Michelle Breyer

Bill Morrow: Starting to see black ink

Texas native Bill Morrow, 39, founded San Marcos-based Grande Communications in
1999 to deliver digital cable television programming, telephone service and
high-speed Internet access over a single cutting-edge fiber-optic network that
will stretch from north of Austin to San Antonio. The company turned cash-flow
positive in the third quarter.

Defining moment: "Our company's biggest moment this year came during February,
when we connected our first retail customer. Secondly, we hit 500 employees in
mid-summer. We changed from a startup company and a small business to an
established operations company. And in the third quarter, we realized we would
hit $100 million in revenue for the year.

Even though our business was expanding rapidly, we knew that the economy was
hurting. We faced more difficulty in raising additional equity and debt for our
network, but we still completed a $90 million debt and equity funding round in
November."

Lesson learned: "One of the big lessons from 2001 was to look closely at the
business on a daily and weekly basis and make minor changes. In addition, we
stay very, very close to our investors and we communicate with them about the
great things, the good things and the troubling things."

Watching for: "We think there will be an economic recovery in 2002. We think it
will show up in increased investment funds becoming available. There is a lot of
money that has been on the sidelines for the past 18 months. By midyear, we will
make a very hard push to raise additional funds to begin our Houston network
project."

-- Kirk Ladendorf

Robin Curle: 'Everything is cyclical'

Robin Curle, 51, is a long-time player in Austin's high-tech scene. Formerly
chief executive of software startup Journee Software Corp., in April she became
a co-founder of CEO Partnerships, which advises startups on raising money and
building their businesses.

Defining moment: "There were so many defining moments in 2001, but for me
professionally, it was starting CEO Partnerships. It's the first time in my
career that I've joined in an equal partnership with five people where we all
have an equal say in the direction of the business.

We're all strong personalities and we've all run our own businesses, and we're
learning from each other. Starting it was a risk because it was very much you
eat what you kill. The revenue you bring in is what feeds your family. But the
risk has paid off -- we have 13 clients and are really optimistic about 2002."

Lesson learned: "The lesson a lot of people learned this year is that everything
is cyclical. A good year will be followed by a bad year.

After 9/11 and the down economy, I think a lot of us who were very focused on
careers and focused on business came away with the same lesson that prioritizing
and adding balance is what matters now. Everybody got wrapped up in (the boom).
I spent my life wrapped up in my career, and that's unlikely to change. But I am
making more time for my family and for other things outside of work. Priorities
are changing."

Watching for: "For me, the early-bird indicators are things I can see and feel
and touch. Things got very quiet after 9/11, but now I've started to see more
activity in terms of new contracts, and that's a good sign. I'll be looking for
more companies getting funded, and more people leaving their jobs to start new
companies.

A big sign will come when corporations open their pocketbooks and start buying
technology again. I'm also watching for companies to start hiring again. And, of
course, another big indicator will be liquidity events, whether they're mergers,
acquisitions or initial public offerings. I'm talking about good, solid
acquisitions, not fire sales. Then we'll know the recovery is here."

-- Lori Hawkins

Robert Strait: 'Run as lean as you can'

Robert Strait, president of the Strait Music Co., has been equipping Austin
musicians and some famous performers for 38 years. His company has grown to
about 65 employees in two stores. The company uprooted this year from its
location on West Fifth Street in downtown Austin and reopened Aug. 11 in a
converted movie theater at Ben White and South Lamar boulevards.

Defining moment: "Our biggest event was our move into our new 31,000-square-foot
store. It's a better location for half the price. It was a good time to move,
too, because downtown was getting so congested with all the traffic and
construction and tearing up the roads to put in digital cable. People were just
doing anything not to go downtown. Our sales had always increased 5 to 10
percent a year, but they had been flat for the last couple of years.

Our first month was fantastic. Then September 11 hit. Everything came to a
screeching halt, but it has steadily picked back up."

Lessons learned: "You can think the economy is great and then one thing like
that (Sept. 11) can happen and turn things around overnight.

I'm just going to save for a rainy day all the time. You need to run as lean as
you can. You need good quality people and pay them well to keep them, but you
just don't need any unnecessary expend- itures."

Watching for: "When we start seeing some good month-by-month sales increase over
last year and more big-ticket item sales -- a $50,000, handmade Boesendorfer
grand piano or a collector's edition acoustic guitar. Some of those sell for up
to $12,000. That's half of what I paid for my first house."

-- Shonda Novak

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               17 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 25, 2001, Friday

The changing face on politics

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 2022 words


Forget the agenda

Sen. Jim Jeffords of Vermont is now officially an Independent. Unified
government under Republican control for the first time in nearly 50 years lasted
a few days more than four months. Exercising more power than he will ever have
as a senator of either party, Jeffords changed the results of the last election
by allowing Democrats to gain control of the Senate. Jeffords allows liberals
such as Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts and Carl Levin of Michigan to become
committee chairmen without the consent of the public, who have consistently
rejected liberal ideology in recent elections. . . .

Bush can forget about reshaping the Supreme Court in a more conservative (that
is to say, constitutional) image. He probably should not be too confident that
other conservative nominees awaiting confirmation will get anywhere unless they
pledge to act like Democrats.

Plenty of people are to blame for the debacle that has put Democrats in the
majority for the first time since 1994, starting with the political novices who
thought they could "punish" Jeffords because of his refusal to vote for the Bush
budget. Jeffords was not invited to the White House for ceremonies honoring a
Vermont teacher. There was also talk among some Republicans of further punishing
Jeffords by canceling dairy support benefits, which go to farmers in Vermont and
throughout the Northeast. You can do that with a solid majority but not when the
Senate is divided 50-50.  The White House denies any plans to punish Jeffords,
but no one believes it.

The soon-to-be former Senate Majority Leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, should
have seen this coming. Lott will almost certainly be challenged for the minority
leader position by those who believe he has been too accommodating to Democrats.
His civility will not be reciprocated. It never is when Democrats are in charge.
If Lott's head rolls, many will also blame him for the loss of four GOP Senate
seats in the last election, for which there was no excuse. Had the GOP
maintained a solid majority, Jeffords probably would not have defected and, if
he had, it would have made no difference. . . .

Senate Democrats will now tie-up every important Bush legislative initiative and
block conservative court and agency nominees. Then, with the help of their
ideological buddies in the big media, they will blame Bush and the Republicans
for gridlock. Their aim is to re-take the Senate and House next year and the
White House in 2004. What is the Republican aim and how do they intend to hit
their target?

-- columnist Cal Thomas

The party left him

Jim Jeffords has built a career pursuing a variety of aims important to
Vermonters. These have included education and environmental protection. For
decades, even during the presidency of Ronald Reagan, there has been room within
the Republican Party for Jeffords' brand of moderate Republicanism.

This year it was an open question what kind of Republican president George W.
Bush would be. He called himself a compassionate conservative, and he deployed
rhetoric compassionate enough it might have come from the mouth of Franklin
Roosevelt or Lyndon Johnson.

But as Bush's program has emerged over the past five months, it has been far
more conservative than his rhetoric would suggest. It was his proposal to cut
taxes by $1.6 trillion tax over 10 years that initially provoked Jeffords'
resistance. Jeffords believed the bill was tilted too heavily toward the wealthy
and that it required the Bush administration to neglect other important needs,
particularly education. . . .

After five months, Bush is beginning to suffer from a credibility gap. He has
shown himself to be willing to say almost anything to sell his tax cut.  He says
his tax cut will help low-income Americans, but in many cases it won't.

And in order to promote subsidies for the oil, coal and gas industries, he has
exaggerated the dimensions of our present energy problems, declaring a crisis
where none exists and ignoring the crisis in California that does exist.

Over the years, Jeffords has watched his party drift further and further to the
right. No longer is it the party that valued the wisdom of George Aiken or Ralph
Flanders. Jeffords had little use for the Gingrich revolution, and he has
resisted the influence of the religious right, which has sought to make the
party a vehicle for fighting abortion rights and gay rights.

Many of the events of the last several weeks took place behind closed doors, and
it is impossible to know what finally pushed Jeffords to abandon the party that
has been his home and the home of his father, who was a chief justice of the
Vermont Supreme Court.

-- Rutland (Vt.) Herald

A load of compromising

President Bush would now have to recognize this challenge to his leadership.
Many Democrats appear ready to obstruct executive and judicial appointments, and
would use the powers at their disposal to frustrate Bush's legislative agenda.
Something similar happened during the term of the first President Bush, when
then-Majority Leader George Mitchell artfully undermined the administration.
And, of course, the Republicans did the same thing to President Clinton. All's
fair, etc.

So look for yet more partisan warfare on Capitol Hill, and it won't be pretty.

Still, the current President Bush is well aware of his father's deficiencies as
a politician, and he might regard this setback as a learning opportunity.
Certainly, he would have to learn to compromise more with the Democrats to get
some of his key legislation through. With their control of the Senate, it would
be even harder to try to ram through his programs. Democrats would be in a
position to blunt and moderate the Bush agenda.

But Bush, not James Jeffords, was elected president (albeit by a minority of the
popular vote), and thus is the key person in setting the national agenda. If
Bush, who is personally popular with the public, hopes to get his way, he would
need to take his case more directly and frequently to the American people, who
make their views known to their representatives in Washington. In any event,
Republicans would be foolish to wait until the 2002 elections for relief, and
let the fate of the Bush presidency ride on the close composition of the Senate.

As for the Democratic leadership, it, too, would still have to do a lot of
compromising. And that is apparently what the overwhelmingly centrist American
public wants.

-- The Providence Journal

Bait-and-switch backfires

Jeffords seems to feel the way Ronald Reagan felt when he switched to the
Republican Party in the 1940s. Reagan said he had not deserted the Democratic
Party, but rather that the party had deserted him. That is precisely what
happened to Jeffords as Bush pulled his conservative bait-and-switch with the
American electorate after running as a moderate.  Bush's rejection of increased
education spending in the budget has made a mockery of his pledge to "leave no
child behind" and also embarrassed and angered Jeffords, who apparently thought
he would get more backing from his party for what has been a longtime interest.
The issue of the environment, another Jeffords priority and a big issue in
Vermont, has been treated with contempt by Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney.

Wednesday on Capitol Hill, the Republicans looked like a stunned and sullen
group. Someone in the White House is probably trying to find out who had the
bright idea of not inviting Jeffords for a Teacher of the Year ceremony that
honored a Vermont high school teacher, or threatening him with killing off a
dairy compact treasured by Vermont farmers, steps that are reported to have
reinforced his determination to leave the party. . . .

Nearly a century ago, a cadre of progressive Republicans bolted from their
conservative congressional leadership and an inept President William Howard Taft
over similar issues, particularly taxes. Those alienated progressives came
largely from the agrarian West, whereas today's Republican moderates are largely
from the Northeast and Midwest. They are the ones beseeching Bush to pay
attention to schools, the environment, health care and other vital issues. On
Wednesday a group of centrist Democrats and Republicans said they would not vote
for a $1.35 trillion tax cut in the Senate if the bill's moderate provisions,
like a refundable child credit for poor families, were removed.

The toughest job in the Senate will be held by Sen. Tom Daschle of South Dakota
if he becomes majority leader. With the slimmest possible majority, Daschle must
lead a diverse caucus of conservatives and fiery liberals. He has to worry that
Lott may even now be trying to devise ways of making up for Jeffords' loss by
getting a Democrat to switch to the GOP. Sen. Zell Miller of Georgia, who has
repeatedly voted Republican on every tax and budget issue this year, says he has
no intention of joining the party, but in the volatile climate of the Capitol
right now anything is possible.  Jeffords was wooed in part by Daschle's
offering him the chairmanship of the Education, Environment and Public Works
Committee, but Lott may have his own plums to offer conservative Democrats.

Whatever happens, the case of Jeffords ought to provide a sobering lesson to the
White House. Bush's and Cheney's complacency, followed by ham-handed snubs and
pressure tactics, are going to have to be reassessed at the highest level. With
the Democrats in control of committees in the Senate, the administration would
especially have to rethink its plans on judicial appointments to make them
bipartisan in more than name. To succeed in the new climate, Democrats would
still have to pick their shots and be wary.  But Bush may now have to use more
consistently the bipartisan tactics he espoused in the campaign.

-- The New York Times

The new players

Republican Party loyalists are now calling Thursday's decision by Sen.  James
Jeffords of Vermont to defect to the Democrats a "stab in the back." He will pay
no political penalty; most Vermont voters are loyal only to party independence.

Control of the Senate machinery is the power to frustrate the policies of a
president of the opposite party. The edge Democrats will soon hold in the Senate
will be reflected inside key committees, which will be backed up by staffs who
see the world differently from the current chairmen.

John McCain will be replaced at Commerce by Fritz Hollings; that will harm
campaign finance reform and free trade, though it may help privacy and economic
nationalism. At Banking, laissez-faire Phil Gramm's replacement by Paul Sarbanes
will lead to closer government supervision of bank operations and mergers.

The word is that Daschle will pay off Jeffords with chairmanship of Environment
and Public Works, replacing Robert Smith. That will help Jeffords undermine
White House efforts to develop new oil and gas supplies, as will the change in
Energy from Alaska's pro-supply Frank Murkowski to New Mexico's liberal Jeff
Bingaman. Jeffords now has a shield to protect the subsidies to Vermont dairy
farmers that keep milk prices high to consumers.

On Foreign Affairs, the difference may be more in style than substance; of late,
Jesse Helms and Joe Biden have not been far apart. On Governmental Affairs,
however, we can expect Joe Lieberman, running for president, to go after the
Bush administration with more gusto than Fred Thompson.

The biggest change will be in Judiciary. With Daschle whispering in Pat Leahy's
ear, ideology rather than character and intellect will be the criterion for
judicial confirmation.

Is this power shift good for the country? I think not. It's good for pundits of
every stripe; the duty of an empowered opposition is to leak.  But the way the
power balance has come about gives a kick in the pole to the two-big-tents party
system.

-- Columnist William Safire

The Jim Jeffords defection

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sen. James Jeffords of Vermont announces Thursday he is leaving the
Republican Party, tipping the balance of power in the Senate in favor of the
Democrats.// Phil Gramm: Would be replaced as committee chair. // Trent Lott:
Should have seen this coming. , George H.W. Bush: Undermined by Majority Leader
George Mitchell during his administration.//, Sen. Tom Daschle: Must lead a
diverse caucus of conservatives and fiery liberals.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               18 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 3, 2001, Sunday

'OUT' IN AUSTIN; With a city this open, we don't need a gay ghetto

BYLINE: Michael Barnes, American-Statesman Staff and , Sean Massey, Special to
the American-Statesman

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 4614 words


"We're just ordinary people," says Michael Jones, real estate agent and ex-aide
to former Gov. Ann Richards, describing Austin's lesbian and gay community.
Indeed, among the 1,265 gay Austinites surveyed by the American-Statesman in a
first-of-its-kind newspaper study are grandmothers and fathers, clerks and
accountants, clerics and teachers, doctors and high-tech workers, students and
mechanics. They play sports, go out for romantic dinners, soak up Austin's
entertainment and outdoor activities.  Many raise children under circumstances
still less than ideal, given the legal status of lesbian and gay partners. After
we tabulated the results of the Aug. 26, 2000, survey, a few of the participants
spoke with us at length about their backgrounds, relationships, job experiences
and, especially, their attitudes toward Austin and its diffuse gay community.

The community has it all -- well, except for 1 thing

Todd Adkins and Dan Nelson came to terms with their sexuality at different
stages in their lives and with differing degrees of success. Yet the partners of
eight years could not be happier with their decision to settle down together --
and in their favorite city, Austin.

Nelson, 54, grew up in a small Minnesota town knowing that he was attracted to
his own gender. But in the 1950s and early '60s, his options were limited.

"I thought being gay meant being a sissy," Nelson says. "I knew I was no sissy."

So Nelson spent years proving it, joining the Army, flying combat helicopters in
Vietnam and eventually choosing a career in law enforcement.

Yet, at age 40, after years of marriage and two children -- his sons are 24 and
19, and both are close to their father -- Nelson realized he was living a lie.

"My wife expressed a lot of anger," he says of his coming out. "And I felt a lot
of guilt."

Moreover, by the time he came out, Nelson had risen to assistant chief of the
San Marcos Police Department.

"Surprisingly, that part wasn't as hard," says the recently retired officer, who
kept a photo of Adkins on his desk. "I never sensed any negative feelings from
the force or city officials."

Adkins, on the the other hand, embraced his sexuality at an early age.  Coming
out in the late 1970s -- after the national gay movement of the early '70s -- at
the huge Plano High School he attended outside Dallas, Adkins fell in with the
arts crowd.

"You were allowed to be who you wanted to be," says Adkins, 37. As many as 20 of
his schoolmates would drive to Dallas' gay district, Oak Lawn, for "high school
night" at a popular club.

All the same, Adkins couldn't stand the social cliques in the starchy Dallas gay
scene and had no intention of staying. After graduating from the University of
Texas and a tour of duty in the restaurant industry, he now works in Austin real
estate. He has lived in gay Meccas such as Key West and Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
but beams as he showcases his adopted city's natural settings and integrated
neighborhoods.

"You can't go three houses without seeing a rainbow sticker or flag," he says,
referring to the symbols adopted by the gay community.

Although Adkins and Nelson patronize gay-specific clubs -- they met eight years
ago at the Chain Drive in the Rainey Street neighborhood -- more regularly they
socialize with friends around their pool or at mixed public venues. One favored
pastime is following a female country-and-western singer to her gigs at venues
such as La Palapa Restaurant and Gruene Hall, where Adkins, Nelson and their
lesbian friends have never encountered unfriendly responses to their
two-stepping with same-gender partners.

The couple also volunteer at Metropolitan Community Church, which attracts a
mainly lesbian and gay congregation, and they belong to a few gay organizations.
They sometimes miss social spaces geared for an older crowd, such as the quiet
bars they visit on vacation in Palm Springs, Calif., a gay-friendly resort.
They'd especially like to see a show-tune-theme piano bar, a standard attraction
in many of America's gay precincts.

"I've talked to so many people who say they'd go if Austin had one," Nelson
says. "Anyway, we'd go."

While experiencing no overt discrimination, the couple have been exposed to some
tone-deafness among Austin salesmen who ask them to "bring along the little
woman." Nelson feels his gay identity is important mostly because it defines how
people see them as a couple.

"It seems to be more important to other people," he says. "And because it is, it
makes an impact on how we live. I'm just grateful Austin is here and has such a
diverse community and is a tolerant place to live. I don't know where else I'd
want to live -- but will someone please open a piano bar?"

Finding few social groups, she formed her own

Tree Marsoobian, 23, arrived in Austin from Boston, a larger city with a much
more coherent and visible lesbian and gay community. She came out as a sophomore
in high school and took a girl as her date to her senior prom.  The principal at
the Catholic school objected, but Marsoobian's parents and teachers backed her
decision.

"It was great to see how much support I had," she says. "They were just very
accepting. I have the greatest all-round parents. They asked an arsenal of
questions, then went to the library to read about it."

As a teen-age lesbian -- she often uses the word "queer," adopted in the 1980s
by second-generation gay activists in contrast to the less militant terms "gay"
or "homosexual" -- she enjoyed the help of the Boston Alliance of Gay and
Lesbian Youth, an analogue to Austin's OutYouth. As the group's president in her
senior year, she gave a speech at a gay-pride rally.

In 1996, she chose to study speech therapy and linguistics at the University of
Texas, in part because she knew Austin would contrast sharply with Boston.

"There's a huge gay culture with businesses and social structures in Boston,"
she says. "Austin is significantly smaller than cities such as Boston, New York
and Chicago, so you know to expect a different lesbian and gay culture. Still, I
had a very positive experience at UT."

Marsoobian moved into the West Campus neighborhood without knowing its
reputation for sorority and fraternity houses, but suffered no persecution from
her peers.

"I think it's because I'm confident," she says.

At UT, she joined the grass-roots activist group the Lesbian Avengers, but she
thought queer young women needed more social options, and so founded She Says, a
still-active student organization. Single, she now socializes through groups
such as a version of Guerrilla Queer Bar, which selects an otherwise mixed bar
to populate for a night. Recently, the group colonized Opal Divine's with a
noisy, cheerful crowd.

"It was great," she says. "I haven't seen that many queer women in one place in
a long time."

Like other Austin newcomers, she expresses disappointment in attendance at the
Gay Pride Fest, the annual celebration that returns to Fiesta Gardens today.

"I'm used to a huge (gay pride) event where people are thinking months in
advance about what to wear," she says, guessing that more people go to the
(mostly gay male) Splash, the twice-yearly gathering at Hippie Hollow on Lake
Travis that attracts nationwide interest.

Marsoobian was exposed to sport biking during an AIDS fund-raiser and now bikes
avidly, working at the Bicycle Sport Shop in South Austin.

"I don't think any one city is going to be perfect to live in," she says.  "If
friends were thinking about moving here, I'd tell them the gay community is not
centralized, but it has a flavor all its own."

Laid-back scene is great but more nightlife, please

Being young, African American and gay in Austin has its occasional downside.

Ask Richard Lee Williams, who, when single, found the dating scene here pretty
dry, partly because the gay community is geographically diluted, unlike
Chicago's Boystown, which he visits for events such as Gay Pride festivities. He
feels there are not enough things for young gay men -- or for lesbians -- to do
in Austin.

One event, he says, tends to bring out the entire community: the annual Gay and
Lesbian International Film Festival.

"And we come together on issues," says Williams, 27, citing the support for the
recently passed Texas hate-crimes law.

Raised in a multiracial family in San Antonio -- a white foster father who
recently married a Latina; both are police officers -- Williams longed to depart
that culturally conservative, Catholic-dominated city to the south.

"I had to be very careful there, very cautious who I let know about being gay,"
says Williams, an employee of an Austin advertising firm. "In San Antonio,
hardly anyone even talks about it."

Williams experienced difficulty coming out to his Southern Baptist family. His
father believes his son's orientation is a choice -- and one that should be
avoided -- but expresses ongoing love, Williams says.

Studying communications and English at Southwest Texas State University in San
Marcos, Williams gravitated toward Austin, with its comparatively buzzy gay
nightlife. He moved to Austin four years ago and met the right man, Patrice
Carrara, 32, a high-tech worker and French immigrant. The couple lives in the
Barton Hills neighborhood.

"We are quiet people, so we don't know all our neighbors. But we get along with
them, and there's a nice lesbian couple up the street," he says.

Williams says he has never experienced overt hatred or bigotry, other than
catcalls from passing cars. He senses he and Carrara are accepted as a couple
and thinks Austinites generally judge him by who he is, not the color of his
skin or his sexuality.

Although attached, Williams enjoys socializing at clubs, still the nexus of
Central Texas' evolving gay community. He likes to dance at the city's most
popular gay bar, Oilcan Harry's, but also kicks back at the smoother, quieter
1920s Club on Congress Avenue. He also makes friends through the Austin Men's
Project, a group that encourages safe sexual behavior among gay, bisexual and
other men.

"We bring people together to discuss things," he says. "We need more
opportunities like that to relax and be ourselves."

Williams sums up what he relishes most about Austin: "It's such a beautiful
city, very friendly, very down to earth, with laid-back people -- good people."

Partners, co-workers thrive in caring atmosphere

Culture and geography did not favor Henry Mercado and Robert Salazar. The
couple, both originally from South Texas, grew up in Latino families. But while
Salazar came of age in Austin, Mercado was stuck far from cities with gay
organizations and social spaces.

"You had to deal with a lot of machismo," says Mercado, 26. "I couldn't be
myself. I was always scared of telling people who I was."

Mercado struck up a friendship with Salazar, 39, by typing the words "gay in
Texas" into an Internet browser. By then, Salazar, born in Del Rio, lived in
more amicable Austin and, after a two-year digital conversation, urged his new
friend to move north from Mission.

Eventually the friends fell in love and now share an apartment with a veritable
zoo of pets -- snakes, a sugar glider, fish. They also share an employer, Home
Depot, and were promoted to department managers at the Brodie Lane outlet of the
hardware superstore.

"We have a policy of respecting fellow workers," Mercado says of the
Atlanta-based company, which recently added sexual orientation to its
nondiscrimination policy.

"I joke with the guys I supervise," Mercado says. "That way they feel
comfortable. Sometimes I am the first gay man they've met."

While they mix with gay and straight friends, the partners rarely go clubbing
and are more likely to meet at movies, restaurants or malls.

"I've heard people complain that Austin doesn't have a centrally located (gay)
community," Salazar says. "Austin doesn't need it; we are all over the city. The
Castro is a nice place to visit, but I wouldn't be comfortable living there," he
said of San Francisco's gay district.

Salazar thinks Austin has retained its charm from the '60s and '70s, and its
lifestyle -- open-mindedness, green spaces, small-town feel in a big city -- is
just right for him. Still, he'd like to see more services for lesbian and gay
youths, who experience a high rate of suicide.

"I am proud to be gay," Salazar says. "But I don't like the label. Sex is such a
small part of life. Companionship is more important. Today, being gay is not
controversial. It's almost boring. I mean, we work eight hours a day, sleep
eight hours a day; we don't have much time to concentrate on being gay."

Their children, not labels, are their main concern

"The No. 1 thing that I think of myself, at my core, is as a mother," says
Hillary Miller, a medical doctor in a committed relationship with a woman. "And
no matter what else I am, our kids are our priority."

Their five children play a huge part in the lives of Miller and Neena Husid, an
active fund-raiser for charitable causes. Both previously married, the two women
formed a sort of newfangled "Brady Bunch."

Miller met Husid at a synagogue they attend and still feels ambivalent about the
label "lesbian."

"I suppose society has a definition for who I am, in that I'm in a committed
relationship with a woman -- and that makes me lesbian," she says "But what
happened to me was that I became friends with someone and, in a totally
unexpected way, felt romantically attracted to her. So our experience is one of
being very mainstream and then finding ourselves in a community because other
people defined us in a community from outside. And in some ways life is totally
different, and in some ways life is totally the same."

In the few years they have been a couple, Husid and Miller have had to make
choices about their level of public intimacy.

Regarding their status as lesbians, both are protective of their children,
demonstrated by a recent car trip across Texas.

"I thought, you know, I'm going to take the rainbow sticker off my car," Miller
says. "I'm not going to put my children in danger for a bumper sticker -- if
they are in danger -- which I don't really know why they would be. But that did
happen."

Although she's extremely comfortable and fairly well-off in Austin, Husid sees
it as a place that can improve.

"I'd like to be able to go anywhere and have everybody to feel comfortable," she
says. "I'd like the Hispanic part of the community and the African American
parts of the community to feel as comfortable as we feel. I hope that you don't
have to be middle-aged white women with children and a profession to be
comfortable. I'd like to see that change.  I'd like to see the kid with 15
piercings to be able to walk in to the places I walk into and feel comfortable.
I'd like not to have to hear somebody say, 'I don't know if we should hire that
kid; he's got those tattoos' -- or, 'you know, she dresses like a boy.' "

Who needs a gay hub? Following his interests leads to many friends

History, architecture and gardening -- three of Peter Flagg Maxson's passions --
join forces in his Hyde Park neighborhood. Something else makes him feel at home
among the tree-lined streets and Victorian homes -- good neighbors.

"We live in a largely straight neighborhood," Maxson says of him and his partner
of 26 years, a businessman. "We are very open about being a couple, and our
house has been on the neighborhood homes tour as the home of two gents.
Neighbors seem very accepting."

An architectural historian, Maxson, 54, grew up in the prosperous Preston Hollow
neighborhood of Dallas, attending the private St. Mark's School.  Although aware
of his sexuality from a young age, he remembers Dallas as oppressively
conservative. College in Connecticut and graduate school at the University of
Virginia brought him closer to coming out.

"It was easy at UVA, since 50 percent of the male faculty and graduates in my
program were gay," he says. Still, it was illegal to serve alcohol to
homosexuals in Virginia in the early 1970s, so Maxson plugged into the
university town's active party circuit.

Today, Maxson is not invested in the club-centered gay scene.

"I don't go out to the bars," he says. "I enjoy the camaraderie of friends, gay
and straight, sing in the Capital City Men's Chorus and sit on the boards of
five nonprofit groups."

One of the galvanizing events of Maxson's life -- like many gay men of his
generation -- has been the AIDS crisis.

"Almost 100 friends and acquaintances have died," he says. "I miss them
terribly. There were times when we'd dread coming to choir rehearsal because
someone else might be missing."

He is not a big fan of predominately gay districts, although he visits them in
other cities.

"You cut yourself off from 90 percent of humanity," he says.

Maxson agrees with most other observers that Austin's gay community remains
incoherent, without a hub, but he has an explanation for that.

"When you are making friends, it's hard to please all ages, races, economic and
educational groups," he says. "So you end up spending time with a lot of people
with similar interests."

Maxson belongs to small gay groups with interests in gardening, opera and the
Episcopal Church. He'd like more programs aimed at middle-age and senior gay
men, perhaps an age-specific community center.

"It's still a reasonably scaled city of educated people who are politically
progressive," he says of Austin. "It's also culturally, musically active. I like
all that. But more for older men would be nice."

Life in the suburbs much different than in the '80s

Gay life in the city is one thing. Thriving as a lesbian couple in the suburbs
is another.

Yet Teresa "Tita" Delisi and Debby Merritt cherish their Round Rock home and
love the congenial Central Texas culture.

"There's just the sense that you're in a community," says Merritt, a social
worker. "And I'm not speaking about gay-lesbian community -- just the feel of
the place. The people are really friendly."

Merritt, an Illinois native and longtime resident of Phoenix, moved to Round
Rock two years ago with her partner, Delisi, a nurse. In the 1980s, Delisi had
lived through unfriendlier times in Williamson County, when she endured a nasty
custody battle over her now-adult son.

"I got married right out of high school," Delisi says. "Thought that's what I
was supposed to do -- in a Catholic family, you got married. When I grew older,
I realized something was missing from the relationship."

Delisi said her husband was a good father, and, for a while, theirs was an
amicable divorce. But when her ex-husband remarried, she faced a three-year
custody fight.

"It set a precedent in Texas courts," she says. "I was the first lesbian to get
custody back from a husband. It cost over $30,000 to get through this whole
thing, and I kept running out of money. The community threw musical benefits and
garage sales. I got anonymous gifts from donors."

Former Austin Mayor Jeff Friedman also took her case pro bono. Having won the
landmark case, Delisi and her son, needing a break from the exposure, moved to
Phoenix, where she met Merritt. There, she faced an even more conservative
climate, but she appreciated the city's predominately gay district and community
center.

Delisi, who returned to Texas to be close to relatives and take over the family
house, thinks the Central Texas lesbian community is less active than 20 years
ago.

"For me, the community back then would have been softball women, the bookstore,
the flannel shirt club, and although I was never much a bar person -- I'm very
allergic to smoke -- there was that," she recalls, "Now it seems really hard to
find information about what's going on in the gay and lesbian community. The
first thing we did when we got here, one of the first things, was to find Book
Woman. Thank goodness it was still there."

She entered the feminist bookstore and asked: " 'What's happening? Where are the
newsletters? Where can we go?' They said: 'Well, you know, Gabby and Mo's. But
there's just not much going on anymore.' "

Merritt also misses a social focal point. Austin's Cornerstone Lesbian and Gay
Community center dissolved, to much public distress, several years ago.

"I was pretty involved in getting the gay and lesbian center in Phoenix going,"
she says. "It's something that I think whenever life slows down a bit, it's
something that can be done here. I think we learned a lot of lessons back there
that could transfer here to Austin."

Still, Merritt has fallen hard for Central Texas.

"Tita brought me here to visit her family at the time," she says. "So I fell in
love with Barton Springs. I was like, 'OK, I think we gotta move here, or right
there on that grassy area outside of Southwest Texas (State University), where
the river runs through it.' "

Delisi senses slow changes in the social climate of her suburban county, which a
decade ago split over Apple Computer Co.'s domestic partner benefits.

"I know Williamson County in general is much more conservative than Travis
County. Always has been," she says. "In fact with the custody case, the very
first thing we did was move my case from Williamson to Travis. And it's still
the same up here. However, the Round Rock of yesteryear and Round Rock today are
different. I can already see it's melding -- I mean, Austin is coming this way,
and Round Rock is going that way."

He's proud of the way his hometown is growing up

Michael Jones is competent at mobilizing the levers of power. Son of a senior
district judge and a pediatric nurse, Jones, 32, acted as both legislative and
executive aide to former Gov. Ann Richards while still in his 20s.twenties.
Later, he served as a lobbyist in Washington, D.C. The native Austinite even
speaks in the careful, reflective manner of someone who is considering a run for
public office.

"Austin is in an adolescent phase," he says. "It's experiencing growing pains,
going from a small, sleepy, liberal city to a larger, more urban city, making
adjustments, dealing with the diversity of its people. Sure, there is traffic
and sprawl, but it's still a wonderful place to live because of the people."

Jones endured relatively few hardships coming out in Austin and is acclimated to
the city's integrated straight and gay cultures.

"My parents have gay friends," he says. "Being gay hasn't been much of an issue
in my life. I see myself as a person who happens to be gay."

Now a real estate agent, Jones also encounters few obstacles with his employers,
J.B. Goodwin Realtors.

"They are sensitive in a natural way," he says. "It's a local Austin company
that doesn't perceive it as an issue -- some people have same-sex spouses; some
don't."

As a lifelong Austinite, he has watched lesbians and gay men cluster somewhat in
neighborhoods undergoing upward transition -- for instance, Clarksville, where
he lives, South Central Austin, and areas such as Wilshire Woods and French
Place on the near east side.

"Well, gays and lesbians were willing to move there because they foresaw the
closing of the old airport," he says of those East Side neighborhoods.

Although Jones, who is single, lived for several years in the gay-dense Dupont
Circlef+z neighborhood in the nation's capital, he is just as comfortable being
identified as gay and out in his hometown.

"We are cops, lawyers, butchers, bakers, trash collectors," he says. "We are
just ordinary people."

Once terrified to come out, he's now a major voice

Eugene Sepulveda glides through corporate Austin with the ease of an informed
insider. A finance and marketing consultant for the national accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers of Price Waterhouse Cooper, Sepulveda sits on
philanthropic boards, lobbies the city, state and federal governments through
political organizations and gains access to the highest levels of influence in
Texas.

Not bad for a still-young man whose Latino parents never finished high school.
Growing up in Northwest Houston, Sepulveda chose to attend Texas A&M.

"I received a full scholarship at Yale University," he says, "but was invited to
live in a special minority dormitory. That was a turnoff. So it was A&M."

Sepulveda, a banker after graduating, then a chief financial officer for a
semiconductor company, did not come out until his early 30s. Before that, as he
was exploring his first gay romances, he remained terrified of public discovery.

"I thought the worst thing in the world that could happen was to be outed," he
says. "So, I developed a suicide pact with myself in case someone tried to
blackmail me."

Sepulveda first met his current partner, Steven Tomlinson, who teaches economics
in UT's School of Business and also writes and performs plays, in 199931993 at a
Planned Parenthood meeting about religion. Much later, they romanced and now
share a renovated house in the Harris Park neighborhood.

Along the way, Sepulveda has transformed his success in the financial world into
influence in charitable and political arenas. He was the point man for getting
out the gay vote in Capital Metro's light-rail referendum.

"For years, politicians have realized that the gay vote counts," he says.  "And
gay people look to organizations such as Austin Lesbian and Gay Political
CacausCaucus to see how to vote."

While political himself, Sepulveda is not intolerant of gay individualspeople
who prefer to get on with their lives.

"I think the people whothat say that their sexual orientation isn't a big part
of their lives don't want to organize their life around that," he says. "Yet I
find it hard to believe that anyone, upon reflection, wouldn't acknowledge that
their sexual orientation and the experiences that they've encountered -- the
fear, the anxiety, for instance -- means nothing."

Sepulveda thinks the Internet is changing everything about how lesbian and gay
people interact.

"Even closeted people have ready access to information on the gay community," he
says. "Before, there might be people who weren't going to step into a bar or who
weren't going to go to Lobo's Bookshop to pick up a Texas Triangle," he says.
"To the extent that the Internet is a part of their lives, now anyone can seek
out information."

On the whole, Sepulveda is happy with Austin's gay culture.

"When you go out anywhere, you see gay couples at a table or you see gay couples
embracing in public," he says. "I think Austin has always been so much more
liberal than the rest of Texas. The gays and lesbians have always felt
relatively more welcome and relatively more safe. I use 'relatively' because it
doesn't mean you felt welcome and safe in the early '80s and the '70s.  But you
did feel more so than you did in Houston or Dallas, outside the gay ghettos."

He thinks gay community is what you make it.

"It's about shared experiences," he says. "I believe that all of us exist in
lots of communities. I believe that I exist in more communities than most people
because that's always been one of my objectives in life."

You may contact Michael Barnes at (512) 445-3647 or mbarnes@statesman.com and
Sean Massey at smassey@gc.cuny.edu.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Although Dan Nelson and partner Todd Adkins like to go out, they enjoy
hosting gatherings such as this Friday happy hour that brought together Mary Ann
George (left), Nelson, Adkins, Steve Isaacs, Steve Holman, Judy Arnold and Monte
Swearengen.// Tree Marsoobian (cq) , 23, is a lesbian just out of college,
orginally from Boston, who works at a local bike shop and recently joined a
women's racing team.//Nelson and Adkins are happy with the life they've built in
Austin.// When Richard Lee Williams (center) arrived in Austin, he was
disappointed with the dating scene. Now attached, he still likes to go out and
have fun with friends such as David Sweeney (from left), Williams' partner
Patrice Carrara, Cody Hoya and Troy Richard.// Not only do Robert Salazar, 39,
left, and Henry Mercado, 26, live together, they're also department managers at
Home Depot.// When Hillary Miller, left, and Neena Husid became a couple, they
formed a family that includes 5 children'// Peter Flagg Maxson shows off his
garden to nei

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               20 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 16, 2001, Tuesday

In D.C. social scene, it helps to be Green

BYLINE: Bob Dart, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 908 words


WASHINGTON -- Presidents come and go, but the Green Book continues to preside
over a certain stratum of the nation's capital.

"The Social List of Washington, D.C." -- dubbed the Green Book because of the
color of its plush velvet cover -- is a reminder that a permanent old guard
still mingles in the parlors of Georgetown and porches of Cleveland Park and
suburban mansions of McLean, Va., and Chevy Chase, Md.

"Indeed, there is" a Washington society, said David Howe, general manager of the
Green Book.  The register has been listing this society's members -- and thus
arbitrating whom it includes -- since 1930. People in the book recommend others
to be added, and the final decision is made by a secretive board of governors.

"We list the socially active residents," explained Howe.

However, the social scene awaiting president-elect George W. Bush, his wife,
Laura, and their Texas entourage has changed since a few columnists like Stewart
Alsop and Walter Lippman hosted intimate salons for the nation's power brokers.
Increasingly, zillionaires from the high-tech corridor near Dulles Airport in
suburban Virginia are transforming the culture as well as the economy.

"Typically, high society is old money. But the dot- commers have thrown that
askew," said Susan Lacz, co-owner of Ridgewell's, the long time caterers of the
Washington establishment.

"This is no longer a one-industry town. For the first time, more people here are
working in technology than in government," Sally Quinn wrote in The Washington
Post last year. "And for the first time, money is competing with political
influence as the going currency in the area."

Invitations are still eagerly sought to the dinner parties hosted by Katharine
Graham, former publisher of the Post and a grande dame of Washington society.
But invitations are just as valued for a seat in the boxes of Daniel Snyder, the
upstart financier who owns the NFL Redskins, and Ted Leonsis, the America Online
executive who owns the NHL Capitals and a piece of the NBA Wizards.

Of course, the buzz now is about which social engagement invitations the Bushes
will be accepting.

"When a new administration comes in, there's always some motion at the top" of
the social pecking order, said Diana McLellan, retired gossip columnist and
author of a new book called "The Girls," a history of sex and starlets in
Hollywood.

One of the hot hostesses of the Bush II Era is likely to be Julie Finley ( Page
159 of the 1998 edition of the Green Book ), a political fund-raiser who has
been called the Republican Pamela Harriman.

"I'm not in that league," demurs Finley, who is busily working on the Bush
inauguration. The widow of a prominent Democratic attorney, she was a delegate
for the senior George Bush at the 1992 Republican convention and national
finance co-chairwoman of Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign.

She insists that she is not a socialite.

"I work," she said. "Half of all the parties I have are to raise money for
Republican candidates and the other half are working dinners for NATO." She is
on the U.S. Council for NATO, a lobbying group.

However, she is close to the Bush family. She leads fund raising for the George
and Barbara Bush Endowment for Innovative Cancer Research. She scoffs at the
speculation over how the new first couple will change the social climate.

"They've been here before. It's not like RosalynnRoselynn and Jimmy Carter or
Hillary and Bill Clinton coming to town," she said. "He has a brother and a
sister who live here. It will be just like home to them."

Marvin Bush and his family live in Alexandria, Va., and Dorothy "Doro" Bush Koch
and her family live in Bethesda, Md.

The Washingtonian magazine, which chronicles such things, has predicted some
other hostesses "likely to host 'A' list social events."

They include Alma Powell, ( Page 272 of the Green Book), wife of Bush's
designated secretary of state; Marlene Malek, ( Page 235), whose husband, Fred,
was a longtime Republican activist; and Buffy Cafritz, ( Page 117), a Republican
who also has been friends with the Clintons. Cafritz and former Miss America
Phyllis George are again hosting a pre-inaugural bash at the Jockey Club -- as
they have every four years since 1981.

The style of socializing is subject to change with a new administration.

"Republicans have a tendency to be more elegant, more upscale," said Lacz of
Ridgewell's. "While Democrats might serve beef at a buffet, Republicans might
have a tenderloin French-service dinner."

Changes occur "only to the extent that the administration goes out and about,"
said McLellan, who has been observing the Washington social scene for three
decades. "The Reagan people were out all the time at parties.  You didn't see
that with the Clinton people except for (Health and Human Services Secretary)
Donna Shalala. The previous Bush administration didn't go out much. I think they
were afraid of blabbing. The Reaganites thrived on gossip. Of course, the Carter
people came to town saying they would not be part of the Georgetown crowd."

If the newcomers need a guide, however, the Green Book is updated every year.
About 5,000 are sold annually, said Howe. The price is $70 for people listed on
the social register and $105 for those who aren't.

You may contact Bob Dart at bobdart@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               21 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 22, 2001, Thursday
                               Correction Appended

A road to redemption for troubled Sixth Street ; Austin's most famous

BYLINE: Chris Riemenschneider, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2227 words


Like Bourbon Street in New Orleans or Beale Street in Memphis, Sixth Street is
one of the first attractions people come to see in Austin.

It's also one of the last places many residents want to go on a Saturday night.

In recent years, the crown jewel of Austin nightlife has earned a tarnished
image. Complaints range from "there's no parking," "it's all students" and "none
of the good bands play there anymore" to more serious concerns about
panhandlers, underage drinkers and violent crime.  Three random stabbings by a
transient last month fanned those fears.

On top of all that, Sixth Street has lately been forced to compete with the more
upscale Warehouse District and a wider array of entertainment citywide .

The results haven't exactly stifled the street -- many club owners report that
business is good, and crowd estimates of 25,000 or more are still common on
weekends -- but some proprietors believe that the street's well-chronicled
troubles are turning some people away. Younger, scrappier crowds now frequent
the area , while older, more affluent Austinites are nowhere to be found.

"The city has changed, and Sixth Street didn't adjust," said Gary Manley, owner
of the Iron Cactus restaurant and bar on the corner of Sixth and Trinity
streets. "But it's still the one thing that many people want to see when they
come into Austin, and I think we're finally learning how to take advantage of
that."

Several trendy new bars and restaurants have added high-end luster to th e area,
live music has rebounded on Sixth Street and up Red River Street, and the
long-overlooked African American community is being drawn to the area by
offerings such as now can enjoy jazz at the Empanada Parlour and hip-hop at the
Mercury or Flamingo Cantina .

The trick now is to get more residents down there to see these changes.

That is exactly the intent of this weekend's Mardi Gras Austin festival, put on
by the Friends of Sixth Street business association.  Although last year's Mardi
Gras spawned a rash of crimes, the groupFOSS has imposed stricter, more
family-friendly guidelines, including controlled alcohol sales and beefed-up
security.

"EveryoneEveryone wants this to be a safer, calmer event," says Roadstar
Productions owner French Smith, whose company was brought in to help organize
Mardi Gras this year.  "Some people just don't like to go down to Sixth Street
at night, and (last year's Mardi Gras) didn't help any to change those fears."

Austin Police Department Cmdr. Harold Piatt openly criticized Mardi Gras
organizers last year. But he agrees that the problems -- including numerous
arrests and a small-scale riot -- only epitomized the troubles Sixth Street sees
weekly .

"I think I have the same view as a lot of Austin residents," said Piatt,
formerly a walking lieutenant of the Sixth Street beat. " I love Sixth Street,
but I don't like what it's become."

A never-ending party

Even during Austin's pioneer days, Sixth Street hosted Austin nightlife -- in
saloons, outdoor fiddle fetes and brothels. Part of the street's modern allure
was its shady past as a red-light district. Ironically, many people now fear
it's become that again.

The modern Sixth Street era started in 1975 with the opening of the original
Antone's, on what had mostly been a dormant street for decades.  By the time the
blues club was torn down five years later, other bars had opened up. And over
the next decade, between the crash of one economic wave and the rise of another,
most of the street's hundred-year-old buildings were filled with nightspots.

On a recent Saturday night, as with most weekends, Sixth Street was as alive as
ever. But so were many of its problems.

A single walk from Interstate 35 to Congress Avenue produced a half-dozen
requests for spare change (three from the same guy). A transvestite wearing
headphones made lewd comments to passers-by . Doormen shouted out $1 and $2
drink specials. And teen-age girls, many of them wearing skimpy outfits that
would make Britney Spears blush, gathered outside the Loft dance club.

Most of the revelers, though, were having a good time -- despite what they might
have heard.

"I met a guy yesterday who told me, 'Oh, you don't want to go down to Sixth
Street; it's just shot bars and teen-agers,' " said Shelia Constance, a
30-year-old public relations worker from Los Angeles. "I don't agree. It's a lot
more than that."

For Constance and many others , the appeal is Sixth Street's constant motion.
The compactness of some 50 clubs and restaurants on six city blocks has patrons
hopscotching from one place to the next. A person can jump from a reggae venue
to a pool hall to a noodle shop in the time it takes others to get to their
seats at a megaplex movie theater.

As for the seediness and crime that keep some people away from Sixth Street,
19-year-old Brad Hearn echoed the sentiments of many on the street: "Welcome to
the big city. Now get over it."

Charles Buentello, a 23-year-old Austinite, said, "One of the things that makes
Sixth Street great is you never know what you're going to see."

Many of the people who are there night after night, however , say they all too
often see the same problems.

Esther's Follies owner Shannon Sedwick said that after growing tired of "seeing
drug deals going on right outside the door," she hired off-duty police officers
to stand in front of her comedy club last year.

Danny Crooks, owner of the now defunct rock venue Steamboat, said he and his
employees frequently had their cars broken into during their shifts.  "And I
can't tell you how many times I'd get to work and have to clean (excrement) off
the doorstep," he said .

Other proprietors , including Angela Gillen of Flamingo Cantina and Frank
Hendrix of Emo's, blame many of the problems on proximity to homeless care
centers, including the Salvation Army. They say many transients harass customers
and break into cars or businesses.

"Obviously, (the Salvation Army) serves a worthy purpose in the community,"
Gillen said, "but it just doesn't make sense having it two blocks away from the
busiest entertainment district in town."

Salvation Army spokesman Raul Muoz said the facility, at 501 E. Eighth St.,
maintains a 7 p.m. curfew to keep its residents off the street at night.  "The
Salvation Army has been based in downtown Austin for 111 years, a lot longer
than any bar on Sixth Street," he added.

Police admit some transients can be troublesome but say

claim they only account for only about 2 percent of the arrests on Sixth Street.
Drugs are a more serious problem, with an increase in undercover work accounting
for about 200 arrests in the area last year . Assault arrests have also doubled
in the past three years, with 21 reported in the first nine months of 2000.

Younger drinkers

But police say these figures reflect Austin's population boom of the last
decade. The increase that authorities are more concerned with is inthe
irresponsible alcohol sales on Sixth Street -- to minors and to patrons who have
aleady had too much to drink.

From 1997 to In 2000, the number of minors cited for alcohol violations in the
downtown area reached 7,800, about a 40 percent increase over 1997, according to
Piatt, who said a majority of those cases were on Sixth Street. Among his arrest
sheets are cases with kids as young as 13 and 14.

"Underage drinking is Sixth Street's No. 1 problem, and it leads to so many
other problems," Piatt said. Among those, he said, are car accidents and sexual
assaults, which often happen after people leave the Sixth Street area.

Minors and alcohol have s always been an issue on Sixth Street, but police and
many of the club owners say things it took a turn for the worse in the mid-'90s,
when the Warehouse District started drawing away many of Sixth Street's
25-and-older crowd. Bars desperate for business grew more lax about letting in
and serving minors.

Austin police are working with Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos, D-Austin, on a new bill
that would give city governments the right to prohibit youths under 21 minors
from getting into bars . The bill, specifically aimed at Sixth Street, could
possibly come up in this legislative session.  Support for the law is not
surprisingly split between cClub owners who host an under-21 crowd and those
that don't are split on the bill's meritsthat host minors and the ones who
don't, although music venue proprietors say stricter limits are good so long as
kids can still get in to see bands.

Currently, age policies are up to the individual clubs, which are held
responsible by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission for serving a minor.  If
caught serving minors, in one of TABC's sting operations, both the bars and the
staff member who sold alcohol to a minor bars can be fined several thousand
dollars or . TABC can also push to have their a bar's annual liquor license
repealed. Alcohol commissionTABC Lt. David Ferraro said there are currently
three bars in the Sixth Street area whose liquor licenses are on "protest"
status: Bob Popular, Paradox and the Buffalo Club. The first two clubs, Ferraro
said, are being cited for serving minors. The issues with all three clubs also
include assaults.

Bob Popular owner Mark Schaberg acknowledged that drunken minors are a problem
on Sixth Street, but he said the bars often aren't responsible.

"The TABC's guidelines and penalties are so strict, it already isn't worth it
for any bar owner or bartender to knowingly serve a minor," Schaberg said. "A
lot of these kids are drinking before they even get down to Sixth Street, and
the reality is they would be drinking if Sixth Street were there or not. At
least we give them a place to go to dance or see live music, something to do
besides drink."

Business as usual

TextHereEven with Sixth Street's problems, everyone who operates there agrees on
one thing: It still isn't as bad as many other city's downtown entertainment
districts.

"We haven't become Bourbon Street yet," said Piatt, "but that's not saying a
whole lot."

Both Bourbon and Beale streets have shady reputations that precede them, whereas
concerns about Sixth Street seem to be contained within the city.  New Orleans'
French Quarter area had almost 300 assaults reported in 1999, making Austin's
figures look miniscule. Both New Orleans and Memphis city governments have
enforced curfews, more police and new laws into effect, but their problems
persist -- yet so does the popularity of their nightlife districts.

Despite all thisStill, the business climate on Sixth Street also appears to be
healthy. TAlthough closures are still common, -- the high-dollar Longhorn Lodge
bar and grill shut its doors just two weeks ago -- most club owners arewere
upbeat about their affairs. Alcohol commissionTABC figures from 1996 suggest
that many of the Sixth Street bars still around from that year have seen their
alcohol receipts increase 20 percent to 40 percent.

"We had out best year yet last year," Manley said of the Iron Cactus.

However, counting the population and economical growth of recent years, many
proprietors say business should be better. They're optimistic it will improve,
too, thanks to several developments in the area: Tthe doubling in size of the
nearby convention center; the increase in downtown hotel space, including a
Hilton and Hampton Inn Suites being built just blocks away; the extra parking
lots and garages accompanying those developments; and the companies moving their
offices downtown, including Vignette and the Computer Sciences Corp.

Friends of Sixth Street and other business organizations, including the Downtown
Austin Alliance and the East Sixth Street Community Association, have also
discussed a variety of improvement projects, including better cleanup of the
streets, a recycling program and Capital Metro shuttles services to and from
parking areas.

For those reasons and many others, most of the area's business owners say they
still wouldn't want to be anywhere else.

The Esther's Follies comedy troupe, which has been on Sixth Street for more than
two decades, had its loyalty faithfulness tested last year when developers
offered them a new home on the bustling corner of West Sixth Street and Lamar
Boulevard. Thanks but no thanks, they said.

"We sort of have a for-better-or-worse attitude toward Sixth Street," said
Sedwick, Esther's founder Sedwick. "I think when all is said and done, that's
how most people in Austin feel about it. We may gripe about Sixth Street, but
we're married to it. We still love it."

You may contact Chris Riemenschneider at criemenschneider@statesman.com or call
445-3607.

(FROM BOX)

Alcohol sales

* Sixth Street's top alcohol sellers, Dec. 21-Jan. 23

Iron Cactus: $105,892*

Buffalo Billiards: $96,128

Logan's: $87,435

Jazz: $84,278

The Aquarium: $80,864

Bob Popular: $73,814

* Warehouse District bars, by comparison:

Oil Can Harry's: $171,635

Fado: $168,978

Cedar Street/Malaga: $145,164

* -- Amount in alcohol sales, based on Texas Ccomptrollers Ooffice tax receipts

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2001

CORRECTION: Thursday's front-page article on Sixth Street incorrectly reported
statistics on underage drinking violations. According to police, 7,800 downtown
violations were issued over three years.

GRAPHIC: Gary Manley, owner of the Iron Cactus bar and restaurant, is optimistic
about Sixth Street's future. 'The city has changed, and Sixth Street didn't
adjust. But it's still the one thing that many people want to see when they come
into Austin, and I think we're finally learning how to take advantage of that,'
he said.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               22 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 25, 2001, Sunday

Conservation agency under state's microscope; House bills seek to

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1016 words


Walter West, a retired aerospace engineer, lives on the shore of Sam Rayburn
Reservoir in the Piney Woods of East Texas for a reason: He likes to fish,
especially for bass.

Last year, the state agency in charge of protecting the environment lowered the
water quality standard for a stretch of the Angelina River, which feeds the
reservoir. That allows a paper mill to release wastewater with a greater
concentration of pollutants than it could otherwise. The decision by the Texas
Natural Resource Conservation Commission speaks volumes about environmental
regulation in the state, West said.

"It's very obvious the agency is catering to special interests rather than
public interests," he said at a legislative hearing last week.

Anglers, environmentalists, farmers, consumer activists and other critics cite
the case as an example of what they regard as the conservation commission's
industry-oriented approach. Now, with the commission up for its periodic
reauthorization by the state Legislature, the critics are pressing for changes
they say are needed to bring balance to the agency entrusted with safeguarding
public health and the environment.

A reauthorization bill filed by Rep. Fred Bosse, D-Houston, would institute a
number of reforms. The conservation commission would have to get tougher on
companies that fail to comply with pollution-control rules.  Those with the best
compliance records would enjoy more leeway in regulatory and permit decisions.

In addition, the agency would be required to improve procedures for responding
to pollution complaints. It would have to make reasonable attempts to ensure
balanced representation on advisory committees. And it could initiate
enforcement actions based on evidence supplied by the public rather than
collected by its inspectors.

The Sierra Club, the Environmental Justice Committee of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People, the National Wildlife Federation,
Environmental Defense, Consumers Union and other groups say the measure does not
go far enough. The groups are supporting a score of bills that would toughen
Bosse's plan.

One, filed by Rep. Ruth McClendon, D-San Antonio, would remove the agency's
executive director from participation in quasi-judicial hearings in which agency
recommendations are challenged. In many such hearings, the director and the
regulated company are on the same side.

Another bill, authored by Rep. Dawnna Dukes, D-Austin, would require the
commission to consider a company's responsiveness to public complaints when
deciding whether to authorize a plant expansion or other changes. A measure
filed by Rep. Lon Burnam, D-Fort Worth, seeks to set a different tone for the
agency by removing the phrase "encourage economic development" from its
statutory marching orders so that its sole mission would be to protect public
health and the environment.

Industry officials have weighed in as well. Many are concerned about the
compliance history provisions. Under Bosse's bill, the commission would have to
rate companies' compliance, and those with poor records would be subject to more
frequent inspections and would have a harder time obtaining new permits.

"A lot of this is based on suspicion and distrust that have no foundation in
reality," said Jon Fisher, senior vice president of the Texas Chemical Council,
a trade group.

Still, there is little doubt that the state's pro-business political climate
influences the Legislature and the conservation commission. In recent years,
lawmakers have enacted private property rights protections and other measures
intended to ease regulatory burdens. One law allows companies to conduct
internal environmental audits and avoid penalties for violations they discover.

Homemakers, farmers, retirees and local elected officials from across the state
have used the commission's reauthorization as an opportunity to complain to
legislators about inadequate regulation. The House Committee on Environmental
Regulation has heard about a messy recycling center near Lubbock, the use of
sewage sludge as fertilizer in Sierra Blanca and air pollution from refineries
in Baytown.

West, the retired engineer, complained about the downgrade of water quality
standards in the Angelina. The river segment at issue is downstream from a paper
mill owned by Abitibi Consolidated, a Canadian company, and upstream from Sam
Rayburn Reservoir. West said the downgrade will aggravate pollution that has
already prompted state health officials to warn anglers against eating too much
fish from the reservoir.

In an interview, Robert Huston, chairman of the conservation commission,
defended the reclassification to intermediate water quality. The previous rating
of high water quality was set in the absence of detailed information about river
conditions, he said. Even with the downgrade, the company is required to clean
up its discharge, though not as much as it would have under the previous rating.

Leigh Ing, the commission's deputy for permits, said the river flows slowly in
the stretch at issue, causing water quality to be lower than in faster-moving
stretches. The intermediate rating would be warranted even if there were no
paper mill, she said, adding that there is no evidence the mill is harming fish.

However, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has questioned the downgrade
and sent signals that it might reject the move, Huston said. The EPA's approval
is needed for the downgrade to become final. The matter is under review, said
David Bary, an EPA spokesman.

The House committee took no action on the conservation commission legislation.
Its chairman, Warren Chisum, R-Pampa, said the panel would add elements from
various bills into Bosse's reauthorization measure. It is unclear which elements
will be adopted.

Said Huston: "We are very open to constructive change. We have not dug in our
heels."

You may contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at rhaurwitz@statesman.com or (512)
445-3604.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sam Rayburn Reservoir in East Texas is the retirement haven of Walter
West, who is concerned about how a paper mill's discharges affect water quality.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               23 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 29, 2001, Sunday

Bush just says 'no' to global treaties -- for now
President vows to offer own solutions with a foreign policy that puts U.S.
interests first

BYLINE: Bob Deans, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: Insight; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1234 words


WASHINGTON -- When it comes to rejecting the fruits of global cooperation,
President Bush has set a new standard.

In just six months, his administration has walked away from a global climate
treaty endorsed by 178 other countries, nixed a germ warfare protocol cobbled
together by 56 nations, balked at U.N. prohibitions on the world arms trade and
declared his willingness to withdraw from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile
Treaty.

In each case, Bush argues that the agreements don't serve U.S. interests and
that other ways must be found to address the objectives of the accord.

The Kyoto accord, he says, would "wreck" the U.S. economy. The germ warfare
accord would cause the Pentagon to give up more than it gets in terms of
protection from biological attack. The U.N. small-arms resolution might have
interfered with the right of Americans to bear arms. And the ABM treaty would
prevent development of a missile defense shield.

And Friday, the White House added a new subject to the list. The United States
threatened to back out of a U.N. conference on discrimination if the agenda
includes proposals on slavery reparations and equating Zionism with racism.

Is it global leadership, or isolationism?

An answer may emerge in the coming weeks. Bush says he supports the principal
objectives of the world community on most of these issues but wants to offer his
own solutions. Foreign officials await his proposals.

Richard Haass, the State Department's director of policy planning, described
Bush's approach as "a la carte multilateralism" -- joining in worldwide
agreements when it suits U.S. purposes.

By doing so, Bush may eventually show his credentials as an internationalist who
embraces the idea of diverse nations knitted together by common values and goals
enshrined in global accords. For now, though, he's placed himself in something
of a defensive position by rejecting global treaty-making and widening the rift
between the United States and its allies.

Even after two trips to Europe for summits in the past six weeks, Bush risks
being seen as turning his back on a system of international cooperation that the
United States helped forge and has used to exert influence around the world.

"Even those within the administration who agree with individual decisions are
uneasy about the cumulative impact, not only of saying no to all of these
agreements, but also of doing so without alternatives in place," said Casimir
Yost, director of the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy at Georgetown
University. "There is a perception that the United States is going to go its own
route and doesn't believe in cooperative arrangements."

That impression didn't begin with Bush. In part, it reflects shifts in the world
since the collapse of the Soviet Union left the United States unrivaled as a
political, military and economic force -- a status that can create problems for
Washington when international treaties are negotiated.

Former President Clinton, for instance, drew the condemnation of much of the
world when he refused to join a global convention prohibiting the use of land
mines.

Clinton wanted to support the accord and was under great pressure at home and
abroad to do so. With 37,000 U.S. troops based in South Korea, though, he was
unable to agree to provisions that would have required the Pentagon to remove
anti-tank mines meant to thwart a possible attack from Communist North Korea.

"It was written in a way that only covered the United States, and we were just
not able to get it out of there," said Samuel Berger, Clinton's national
security adviser. But he says he is troubled by what he perceives as a reflexive
aversion to treaties by the Bush administration.

"We are at the zenith of our power and influence," Berger said. Still, he said,
many of the most nettlesome challenges facing the United States are global in
nature -- terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, the AIDS
pandemic -- and difficult, if not impossible, to confront alone.

"We live in a kind of a world in which we can often get a lot more done by
cooperating than by acting alone," he said.

Hard bargaining

Others contend that the nature of multinational agreements -- especially in
forums such as the United Nations, where the United States gets the same vote
as, say, Sierra Leone -- requires a U.S. president to stand tough in the face of
global opposition to win a deal most favorable to the United States.

"Sometimes if you want to push the debate you just have to show a certain
obstinacy," said Ruth Wedgwood, senior fellow for international organization and
law with the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations. "You get some things
by bodaciousness that you don't get by incrementalism."

The impression that Bush intends to go it alone on the world stage is mistaken,
said Bush's top foreign policy spokeswoman, Mary Ellen Countryman. What's clear,
though, she said, is that Bush won't jump on board an international treaty just
because his foreign counterparts say he should.

"We're not interested in agreements for the sake of agreements," Countryman
said. "We're just interested in agreements that have a purpose and also are in
the United States' best interest."

None of Bush's decisions on treaties has been more controversial than his
rejection of the 1997 Kyoto climate change accord. It calls for industrialized
countries including the United States to slash emissions of carbon dioxide and
other so-called greenhouse gases by 5 percent -- using 1990 levels as a base --
by 2012. That, Bush maintains, could trim U.S. economic output by as much as 2
percentage points over the period, imposing nearly as much pain on American
workers and consumers as the oil shocks of the 1970s.

Bush also argues that the accord is unfair because the same goals would not be
applied to nations that have less developed economies, yet still produce
significant amounts of pollution.

Conference outcasts

This month at an international conference on global warming in Bonn, Germany,
178 other countries endorsed the Kyoto accords, leaving Bush isolated on an
issue that has galvanized world opposition to his environmental agenda. After
the U.S. delegation ran into boos and catcalls in Bonn, several American
representatives scrambled out of the convention hall through the kitchen.

"We have motivated the rest of the world on environmental issues," one delegate
said, "by taking the opposition course."

That's a price Bush has been more than willing to pay. He's set up a
Cabinet-level task force -- much like the body he pulled together for his energy
agenda -- and has suggested that he'll offer an alternative to Kyoto in time for
a U.N. global climate conference in Morocco this fall.

International pressure is one thing; domestic politics, though, is quite
another. Bush's foes on Kyoto are vowing revenge and warning that the results
will be felt far closer to home than Bonn.

"The administration's dropping the ball on Kyoto is going to put a lot of energy
behind the domestic push for environmental solutions," said Jon Coifman,
spokesman for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a Washington-based
environmental advocacy group.

"They can't disregard public opposition here," Coifman said, "or it's going to
start costing them seats in Congress."

Bob Deans can be contacted at bobdeans@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Bush's 'a la carte multilateralism' has put him somewhat on
the defensive.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               25 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 1, 2001, Thursday

U2 NOW MORE THAN EVER

BYLINE: MICHAEL CORCORAN American-Statesman

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 736 words


When U2 began its "Elevation" tour in March, the Irish Supergroup joked that it
was reapplying for the job as the best band in the world. "Beautiful Day," from
the band's most recent album, "All That You Can't Leave Behind," had just swept
the song and record of the year categories at the Gram- mys, and the group was
eager to redeem itself on a rompin' stompin' tour after a decade of toying with
conceptual high-tech stage shows that found the band too ironic to rock.

The stripped-down and punched-up "Elevation" was all about embracing the stature
as rock royalty without apologies or a wink, about wearing black leather pants
because that's what the girls like. Bono primped and teased around the
stage-bordering catwalk like the world's last rock star.

Then, about seven weeks ago, the tour turned into a crusade and songs became
prayers. In a tragic flash, U2 became socially relevant again because no other
band has so emphatically believed in rock's potential for catharsis and change.
Where Whitney Houston and Lee Greenwood rereleased patriotic tunes and Bruce
Springsteen and Michael Jackson wrote new ones, U2 was already in place, out on
the road, to provide a deeper, more meaningful form of healing. Several acts
postponed tours or canceled shows after the planes hit and the towers tumbled,
but for U2, whose 1983 breakout album "War," included one of the most eloquent
expressions of grief and measured anger in "Sunday Bloody Sunday," the time to
tour has never been better.

The band's oft-criticized attempts to politicize arena rock will be welcome
Monday night, when U2 plays from a heart-shaped stage at the Frank Erwin Center.
The current climate of fear and uncertainty calls for a sweeping view of
humanity from artists unafraid to be less than cool. That would be U2, who is
this sad season's "only band that matters." Love will be coming to town in a
private jet named "Elevationair," emblazoned with a logo of a heart inside a
suitcase. It's a good time to be obvious.

'Twasn't always thus. Eleven years ago, at the height of their popularity, Bono,
the Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. decided they were becoming too
obvious, too comfortable, and they still hadn't found what they were looking
for. In 1990, the band of the '80s took an ax to "The Joshua Tree," with Bono
announcing at the group's final concert of the year that he and his mates were
"going to go away for a while and dream it all up again." The band's
co-producer, Brian Eno, made a list of what would be the best elements in the
group's change in artistic direction. "Trashy," "sexy," dark" and "industrial"
were some of the new buzzwords, while on the list of what not to be, Eno had
scribbled "earnest," "righteous" and "rockist." It was as if Fabio decided to
shave his head.

The resulting departure LP, "Achtung Baby," was a conspiracy of chaotic beats
and jagged guitars that ended up on most critics' "Best of 1991" lists. The
media manipulation manifesto "Zooropa" followed in '93 as some sort of weird and
funky postcard from the "Zoo TV" tour. Then came the band's ill-advised
electronica exercise, "Pop," in 1997.

For U2, which released its first album, "Boy," in 1980 and deconstructed in
1990, the new century called for another stylistic shift -- a return to the
earnest, righteous, rockist days on "All That You Can't Leave Behind."

Change has always been at the whim of the band, but this season necessity is
calling the shots. The back-to-basics tour now has greater implications, the
small steps asked to spring into a giant leap for mankind. But if any group can
pull off this call to wed the musically riveting and the spiritually invigo-
rating, it's the one whose singer once held up Frank Sinatra as proof that God
is a Catholic.

"This is a good song, but Joey Ramone made it a great one," Bono said by way of
introducing "In a Little While" at Madison Square Garden in June. Bono had been
touched to find out that his hero, the person who inspired him to join a band,
was listening to the song for solace in the final moments of his life.

They're not just a group you listen to, they're one you turn to.

They've always been a good band, but recent events have made U2 a great one.

You may contact Michael Corcoran at (512) 445-3652 or mcorcoran@statesman.com.

U2

When: Monday

Where: Erwin Center

How much: $45-$85

Info: 477-6060

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               29 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 15, 2001, Thursday

RESTAURANTS: For instant upper crust, just add green

BYLINE: Dale Rice american-statesman restaurant critic

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 595 words


The price of entrees in Austin is mushrooming -- or is that chanterelling? A
year ago, the Cafe at the Four Seasons, Carmelo's and Emerald were among a
handful of Central Texas restaurants that often charged more than $30 for a
dinner entree.

Since then, nearly 20 fine-dining establishments have opened in the Austin area,
effectively doubling the number of restaurants with $30 entrees -- to 13. The
number of restaurants bubbling under the $30 mark increased twofold as well.

What a difference a year of money makes.

"It's exciting to be in the middle of it," says Erika Brown, owner of Zoot, the
small, well-regarded American bistro. "It's exciting to be in a town where
people want to go out to eat."

Brown, who with husband Bic also owns Hyde Park Bar and Grille and Dolce Vita,
says sales at all three restaurants increased in 2000. Not only did more people
walk through their doors, they spent more, too.

While Zoot occasionally allows an entree -- such as rack of lamb -- to climb as
high as $34, the restaurant usually keeps its entrees under $30, with some under
$20.

But among the new high-end establishments, you don't have to look far to find
pricier items:

* Emilia's, the "new American" restaurant in the historic compound at Third and
Red River streets, serves a lobster poele with warm potato and wild mushroom
salad, wilted spinach and caviar butter for $37.

* Aquarelle, the exquisite little French restaurant on Rio Grande, has three
fixed-price dinner options, including a six-course meal at $65 a person.

* Girasole, the Italian restaurant with a 60-page wine list at Fourth and Lavaca
streets, offers a John Dory fillet in a chestnut crust with cherry sauce at $30
and an Australian rack of lamb with balsamic vinegar sauce for $34.

There are several reasons for this leap.

More people -- transplants from East and West Coast cities where the restaurants
are more expensive -- are willing to pay steeper prices for artfully prepared
dishes with unusual ingredients.

In the booming business climate of the last few years, rents have risen
steadily, forcing restaurateurs to charge more to cover their expenses.

The cost of ingredients also has increased sharply. Brown sees three reasons for
that: the national trend of higher prices for produce and meat, increased demand
for some specialty items and the more frequent use of unusual, expensive
components.

Restaurant owners also have been investing heavily to build or remodel.

Cool River Cafe, its owners said, represents an investment of $8.8 million.
Another restaurant that opened late last year has nearly $6 million in the
facility, and one that opened earlier in the year cost nearly $4 million to put
up, according to industry insiders.

And there's no way to recoup that kind of investment with $15 entrees.

Some in the industry worry that downtown real estate has become so expensive
that smaller, independent restaurants will be priced out of the market. That
would mean the large national chains -- places like P. F.  Chang's, Star Canyon
and Morton's Steakhouse -- may begin to crowd an invigorated central city, while
independent chefs will have to move further out.

The big question, of course, is whether Austin -- in the face of a weakening
national economy and troubles in the high-tech industry -- can sustain all those
high-end eateries. Or whether those mushrooming prices will turn out to be
inedible.

You may contact Dale Rice at drice@statesman.com or 445-3859.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               32 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 16, 2001, Thursday

Cedar Park asks manager for tighter budget proposal

BYLINE: Erin Walter, Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: Williamson County This Week; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words


Hoping to avoid a double-digit percent tax increase in a slow economy, the Cedar
Park City Council has instructed the city staff to look for ways to cut the
proposed $31.6 million budget for the next fiscal year.

During the Aug. 9 council meeting, City Manager Robert Powers proposed a budget
that would require a tax increase of 20 percent, or about $117 for owners of an
average-value home. While council members acknowledged that the city needs
everything in the proposed budget -- including raises for staff members, seven
new positions in the Police Department and six new jobs for firefighters -- they
asked Powers to draft an alternate budget plan that would stick to the rollback
rate and raise taxes only 8 percent.

The rollback rate is 8 percent higher than the rate that would earn the city the
same amount in taxes as last year. If the council adopts a higher rate than this
year's rollback of 45.63 cents per $100 of property value, Cedar Park taxpayers
can force an election on the issue by gathering signatures from one-tenth of the
almost 16,000 registered voters within 90 days.

"We're in a different economic climate than we had been for a long time,"
Council Member Bob Lemon said. "We need to do the right thing. Going up 8
percent is a pretty big jump all by itself."

Mayor Bob Young said the council is not ready to accept a 20 percent tax
increase but that 8 percent also might be too low to pay off the city's debt and
accomplish its goals.

"The budget that's been shown to the council is just a proposal," Young said.
"Our challenge is to look at that and ask and answer some hard questions about
where we want to go with this budget. It's important that the city manager and
staff look for places they can trim and still provide the quality of services
necessary in our city."

The council and city staff will revise the proposed budget during a five-hour
workshop starting at noon Friday at the River Place meeting room, 4207 River
Place Boulevard in Austin. The workshop is open to the public, but the council
will not take comments.

Residents' next opportunity to speak on the subject will be the Aug. 23 council
meeting. That meeting will start at 6:30 p.m. at the public library, 550
Discovery Boulevard.

Parking only partly set

The Cedar Park City Council finally passed part of the parking ordinance last
week, but the most divisive aspects remain unresolved.

During its second six-hour meeting in a row, the council voted 6-1 to approve
the rules for parking on public streets and property. But the council postponed
until Aug. 23 any discussion of the rules for parking and storing vehicles on
private property.

The public parking code, which includes provisions for handicapped spaces and
rules against blocking sidewalks, is similar to what the city already has on the
books. However, the council exempted cul de sacs from the requirement that cars
park at least five feet from a driveway.

Council Member Bob Lemon, who lives on a cul de sac, voted against the revised
parking ordinance because he said it does not give enough flexibility to people
who live on such streets.

Now the council must face the tougher test: reaching an agreement on private
parking. It will discuss that issue during its 6:30 p.m. work session Aug. 23 at
the public library.

Trash changes put off

At the Aug. 9 City Council meeting, last-minute phone calls prompted Council
Member Lowell Moore to postpone discussion of possible changes to trash
collection in the city, the issue's second delay in a row.

Moore is proposing that the city set up a system in which only one trash company
serves any particular area. Currently, residents may choose one of four
companies.

Moore said reducing the number of heavy garbage trucks in the city would help
maintain roads and improve safety.

But just before the council meeting, he spoke with residents of the West Side at
Buttercup subdivision, who said their homeowners' association already has a
contract with a company to serve the entire neighborhood.

Moore said he needs to study how a citywide trash system would affect that
neighborhood's contract and any others.

"I've asked (City Attorney) Leonard (Smith) to look at what would happen if we
created a city program for trash pickup," Moore said. "Could we opt them out or
should we?"

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               33 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 5, 2001, Wednesday

Looking for partners to solve air-quality problems

BYLINE: Scott Johnson

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 710 words


Can urban, suburban and rural interests show their concern about the regional
nature of air quality by taking responsibility for reducing their own emissions?

I asked this question last year on this page and still do not know the answer.
Even though the region's cities and counties have taken an initial step toward
developing a reduction plan, we will not know the answer until we pool resources
for better regional planning, adopt lifestyle changes to avoid single-occupant
vehicle commuting, agree to fund incentive programs and take more voluntary
action to prevent pollution.  Even with comprehensive regional strategies in
place in order to dramatically improve our air quality, other urban areas and
large sources, such as ALCOA's Milam County plant, will have to substantially
reduce their emissions to prevent the transport of pollutants into our air.

Our region and the entire state will be handicapped in its efforts to reduce
pollution to levels that are protective of public health, in part, for the
following reasons:

* The implementation of regional transportation plans do not consider land-use
implications and place little value on alternate transportation options. State
and federal transportation funding generally facilitate suburban commuting and
do not adequately address other commute options.

* Population growth and the resulting sprawl have caused vehicle miles traveled
to increase substantially. Controlling that growth is essential to stabilizing
our air pollution levels because vehicles are the largest source of our
emissions.  The business and real estate community's effort to "sell"
Austin/Central Texas has been so successful in growing the region that there is
no effective short-term fix within our regulatory purview to mitigate the
adverse effect these extra miles have on air quality.

* Improvement in emission's technology for construction equipment, marine
engines, lawn/garden equipment and other gross polluters is being phased in over
many years, and their respective fleets have turned over slowly. Technological
improvements have an extremely important role in the long-term reduction from
these pollution sources. This is your cue to help the economy by buying cleaner
engines.

* Incorporating energy efficiency upgrades into new and remodeled residential
and commercial development is not a statewide priority. When higher efficiency
standards are not met, more fossil fuels are exhausted by the state's aging
electric utilities to meet the increased load demand, which generates more
pollutants that form ozone-smog and more toxic mercury emissions. Use the City
of Austin's Green Building program for your residential and commercial building
needs.

Other U.S. cities and counties have reduced their pollution levels by developing
creative solutions that combine better planning with technological advances and
by working together to implement them. Protecting and even improving their
economic prosperity has been a byproduct of their efforts. For example, Seattle
passed a resolution recently to meet the Kyoto Protocol, in part, by having
their municipal utility achieve zero net greenhouse-gas emissions. All urban,
suburban and rural interests should take responsibility for their emissions and
reduce them.

A well-designed vehicle inspection and maintenance program will have to be part
of the comprehensive plan to improve air quality for at least Travis, Williamson
and Hays counties. It would be effective at reducing emissions of both
pollutants, which form ozone. While I am concerned about the financial costs for
low- and moderate-wage earners to pay for necessary vehicle repairs, I am even
more concerned about the adverse health effects and their respective costs to
all wage earners caused by emissions from vehicles that are old and/or poorly
maintained.

Affordability will have to be addressed in an equitable way to prevent choices
between transportation needs and basic needs while protecting the region's
health. I believe the leadership to address this issue has to come from our
region. Who's in?

Johnson has been an adviser on air-quality issues for a number of organizations,
including the Clean Air Force and Austin's Green Building Task Force.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               34 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

Cooling market leads to hot deals in Central Texas //Home sales climate opens
doors for prospective buyers seeking bargains

BYLINE: Shonda Novak, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. G1

LENGTH: 1890 words


Last year, Rob and Julie Morgan Hooper almost left Austin, abandoning hopes of
finding a house they could afford in Central Texas' pricey market.

Now, with the real estate market favoring buyers, the Hoopers are house-hunting
in earnest and plan to stay.

They are among a wave of prospective first-time buyers, move-up buyers and real
estate investors who are capitalizing on a cooling market. Buyers now have more
than twice as many homes to choose from and more power to negotiate, as sellers
realize that last year's prices are yesterday's news.

It is a market not seen in a decade, real estate experts say.

Home sale prices and appraised values have been rising by 11 percent to 12
percent a year for the past 10 years, Travis County appraisal officials have
said. The last decline was from 1989 to 1990, when home values fell about 4.5
percent.

Now, reduced prices coupled with the lowest interest rates in nearly three years
also are enticing people like the Hoopers to take the home-buying plunge.

"A year ago, we were ready to leave Austin because we couldn't afford to buy a
home here," said Julie Morgan Hooper, 32, executive director of the Heritage
Society of Austin. Rob, 33, is a musician. "We were honestly ready to go to
Dallas."

The Hoopers now rent an apartment in South Austin for $800 a month. They plan to
start a family and want a house with a big yard for Dolly, their Labrador
retriever mix, and their cats, Goldie and Gonzo.

Last Sunday, they looked at a three-bedroom ranch on Amesbury Lane near Lamar
Boulevard and U.S. 183. The seller, Nicola Lomas, a corporate account manager
with a major airline, found out Sept. 28 that she would be transferred to Dallas
as the airline restructures after three hijacked planes crashed into the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon, and a fourth crashed in rural Pennsylvania.

Lomas, who bought the house in August 2000 and had just finished a major
remodeling, was told to report to work in Dallas three days later. She put her
home on the market last weekend.

When they shopped last year, the Hoopers could afford homes in suburbs such as
Buda and Leander. But they wanted a central location for Julie's downtown-area
job. As a preservationist, she also prefers older, urban homes.

Lomas' house is priced at $139,500. A year ago, some homes in the area sold in
the $145,000 range, one real estate agent said. Having bought at the peak of
Central Texas' hot housing market, Lomas now hopes to break even on the sale.

"With the right balance between location, style and quality, hopefully it'll
appeal to somebody," Lomas said.

'Willing to bargain'

For Darrin Taylor, there's an upside to the downturn.

Taylor, vice president of 21st Century Technologies Inc., a small Austin
computer company, said that although he had already decided to look for a house,
the slower real estate market "is certainly helping out."

"People are willing to bargain," said Taylor, who rents an apartment in the
Arboretum area in North Austin. Some sellers are asking him to name his price.

Taylor said he hears sellers talk about the "good old days, when people were
fighting each other over getting the houses and breaking down in tears if they
couldn't get it."

"Now it's just the opposite," he said. "Houses are sitting on the market for
quite a while. It's easier for me to go pick and choose. I have more time to
consider what it is I really want, as opposed to having to make a very hasty and
fast offer. This is the way I think it should be."

Last weekend, Taylor looked at a new model house built by Lamar Homes.

The home, at Spicewood Springs Road and Adirondack Trail off Loop 360, is one of
24 sites where builder Gerald Lamar plans to build homes priced between $329,000
and $479,000.

Lamar, president of Lamar Homes, said he's getting interest from some people in
the tech field, an area hit hard by layoffs this year nationally and in Central
Texas.

"This is a move-down for some people," Lamar said. "We're not getting too many
people who are looking for the big homes right now. We have three homes more
than $1 million that we started last year. We've had nobody asking us to build
$1 million-plus homes this year."

Last year, Lamar thought buyers would have spoken for all 24 sites. Now, with
three sales and three pending contracts, he's lowered his expectations.

"If we can get eight under construction, that will carry us on into next year,"
Lamar said. " I think next spring is probably rebound time."

Lamar doesn't draw comparisons to the downturn in the mid-1980s, when the supply
of new homes was plentiful and sellers were scarce.

"It's not been a free-fall like in the 1985-1986 era, when we had 2,500 new
homes on the market and it took probably two or three years for them to be
absorbed."

Now, the Austin area has about 800 to 900 homes that are within a month of being
completed -- about an eight-month supply, Lamar said.

Still, the slowdown has taken a toll on his profits, which are half of what they
were last year. He and other builders are using aggressive tactics to sell
homes, including incentives such as custom upgrades and paying closing costs or
part of the interest on the mortgage.

"For everything we have, we're ready to make a deal," Lamar said. "If we can get
a slim profit and get on down the road, that's what we want to do."

Wait-and-see attitude

In addition to first-time buyers, agents said they are seeing increased interest
among people seeking to buy homes as an investment.

"You've got a lot of bottom-fishing going on, where someone will make you a
low-ball offer," said broker Bill Stanberry, owner of Bill Stanberry &
Associates in Austin. "They're trying to find out how cheap they can buy
something. A lot of wealthy investors do that at times like this."

Stanberry is trying to sell several homes he bought as investments. He listed
one for $259,000, and offered a $16,000 Toyota Corolla to woo buyers. None
surfaced, and he's taken the house off the market.

Lamar said a Houston investor who had bought one of his company's homes in the
past recently was scouting for a bargain. Lamar lost the investor to a seller
who shaved $1 million from the price of a $2.4 million lakefront home.

"The seller had already lowered it $400,000, and the buyer offered $600,000 less
than that and got it," Lamar said.

Some sellers are helping buyers with the down payment.

"A year ago, no seller in his right mind would have given you 10 percent for a
down payment," Stanberry said.

Even with incentives, some buyers are still on the sidelines.

"Most everybody's paralyzed right now, just waiting and seeing," Stanberry said.

Ashley and Kevin Golliher love their 1950s home in Highland Terrace, north of
Camp Mabry. But with a 3-year-old son, they plan to either add on to their home
or buy a bigger one. So last weekend, they decided to do some window shopping.

Carrie Davis, with Coldwell Banker Richard Smith Realtors, showed them a home in
Northwest Austin. Originally listed at $429,000, the price is now $399,000.
Ashley Golliher, 33, said she still thinks the home is outdated and overpriced.

Although the Gollihers might decide to stay put for now, Ashley Golliher said
her interest in buying is piqued when she hears of discounts like a friend found
-- a $50,000 reduction on a house in Lost Creek in the desirable Eanes
Independent School District.

"It tempts me to want to look and see how much house we can get," Ashley
Golliher said.

To turn lookers to buyers, Stanberry says agents have to hustle more.

"I tell them they want to be dealing with all their old clients, plus people
they know who would take good advantage of an opportunity to move up or someone
secure with their job."

It's a tall order in an economy that was already troubled before the terrorist
attacks and has become even weaker.

The national economy barely grew during the second quarter, stock markets have
plunged in value, and aviation companies have cut 100,000 jobs since the
attacks, further eroding already shaky consumer confidence.

And while housing had been holding up relatively well this year, thanks in part
to low interest rates, builders and real estate agents worry that more layoffs
in the next three months -- typically the slow home-selling season -- could
change that.

In Houston, whose healthy housing market has been bolstered by its energy
industries, home shoppers were in short supply after the attacks, and some
would-be buyers were canceling deals -- a pattern also seen by real estate
agents in Austin and Dallas.

Traffic at open houses is mixed. Ginger Auel with Re/Max Austin Hill Country
Realty said 16 would-be buyers showed up at an open house Sunday on Barrington
Way in Barrington Oaks. But at an open house on Amesbury Lane in North Austin --
an older four-bedroom home whose price has been reduced to $124,900 from
$129,900, only four prospects showed up.

Lamar, the builder, said his phones are busy with 10 to 15 calls a week from
shoppers wanting to tour his homes. But are they buying?

"That's the question I wish I could say yes to. Nobody's buying. There's just so
much to look at. People can't make that quick a decision."

Jaymes Willoughby, a real estate agent with Re/Max Austin Associates, said
everybody's waiting for the right deal.

"I have people totally ready to buy in West Lake Hills," he said. "They're
waiting for the builder to give up profit and just sell the thing to satisfy the
bank debt."

'What goes up . . .'

In a shifting real estate market, Willoughby arms himself.

"I call it my ammunition file," he says of newspaper clippings describing how
the market has changed from last year, when sales and prices reached record
levels that experts say couldn't be sustained. Willoughby uses the file to
educate sellers who still think their home can draw last year's prices.

"What goes up must come down, and what goes really, really up may come really,
really down," he said.

To boost sales, Willoughby turned to a time-tested strategy for a weaker market:
He promises to sell a home at a certain price if the owner buys a new home
through him. One requirement is that the seller's home be priced at $175,000 or
less -- a range where many agents say sales remain healthy.

If the home sells for less than the guaranteed price, Willoughby pays the
difference.

With builders offering discounts and incentives, Willoughby said his "guaranteed
move-up program" is making clients happy at both stages of the home-selling and
home-buying game. He said he has closed 12 sales since starting the program two
months ago.

Sgt. 1st Class James Kelly, in the Texas National Guard, bought and sold a home
through Willoughby. Kelly, 35, and his family moved down the street into a
bigger house in the Quest Village subdivision in Cedar Park. The builder didn't
reduce the price, but Kelly got a lower-than-average government-financed rate on
a 30-year fixed mortgage.

Willoughby tossed in a $25 gift certificate for moving boxes.

"We make the mojo happen," Willoughby said, "because we start packing them right
away."

You may contact Shonda Novak at snovak@statesman.com or (512) 445-3856.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Real estate agent Cherie Hill showed this Lamar Homes residence on
Adirondack Trail during an open house Sunday. Darrin Taylor, who viewed the
house, says buyers don't have to rush into making deals. // Real estate agent
Carrie Davis, left, shows a house to Kevin and Ashley Golliher and their son,
Ian. Ashley Golliher says the drop in prices 'tempts me to want to look and see
how much house we can get.' // James Kelly carries a mirror and a painting onto
a trailer as his family prepares to move to a larger house in his Cedar Park
subdivision. // Julie Morgan Hooper // Tanya Kelly, right, gets help packing
from her daughter Amber. Favorable interest rates prompted the Kelly family to
move into a larger home in the Quest Village subdivision in Cedar Park..

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               36 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 30, 2001, Sunday

Before Sept. 11, a nation divided

BYLINE: Mark Lisheron, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Insight; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 3225 words


We began the year as a nation of Reds and Blues -- a nation divided, or so we
were told.

We first saw the colors on maps of our country on election night in November
2000. The Blues were those states won by then-Vice President Al Gore, made up,
generally speaking, of people who live in cities on the American coasts. The Red
states, made up of Middle America for the most part, chose George W. Bush for
president.

Analysts digested election results and distilled data from the 2000 U.S. Census
to limn the differences between Red and Blue America. It was more than a matter
of liberal versus conservative a year ago: We were split along the lines of
income, cultural interests, whom we prayed to and how, where we wanted to live
and with whom, and how we drew our moral boundaries.

"These differences are so many and so stark that they lead to some pretty
troubling questions," contributing editor David Brooks wrote in Atlantic
Monthly. "Are Americans any longer a common people? Do we have one national
conversation and one national culture? Are we loyal to the same institutions and
the same values? How do people on one side of the divide regard those on the
other?"

Then came Sept. 11.

Things became clear for Brooks, and for the rest of us. We are Red, we are Blue
and we are Americans.

"The aftermath of the attacks has been a bit like a national Sabbath," Brooks
wrote in the magazine's December issue. "Taking us out of our usual pleasures
and distractions and reminding us what is really important."

This black and bloody Sabbath, which cost almost 3,200 lives on American soil
and plunged us into war, appears to have transformed us. In a million different
ways in the past 100 days, Americans have shown a desire to change. We look back
on our aggressive indulgences in the usual pleasures and distractions, and they
seem measly and unbecoming.

And yet there is a nagging question.

Have we really changed? Americans have a powerful and natural need to have
things as they were. As galvanizing as the attacks have been for this country,
we do not have all of the answers to Brooks' questions.

As we look back on 2001, we find ourselves changed in absolutely every way,
except for the ways we weren't changed at all.

Ambivalence and division

On Nov. 12, we were reminded again how the year began. A painstaking,
months-long press recount of ballots in Florida confirmed that George W. Bush
had, by the election guidelines at the time, won the state and its 25 electoral
votes. Former Vice President Gore had won the national popular vote by several
hundred thousand ballots. The voting and the ballot itself in Florida, with its
penciled-in arrows and now-famous punch holes or chads, were so confusing as to
make a Supreme Court challenge necessary.

At the beginning of the year, we were ambivalent about our president. The vote
seemed to say that the nation was not committed to continuing the administration
of Bill Clinton, but wasn't totally convinced that Bush was a satisfactory
alternative.

The critics attacked: This wasn't a new direction. Bush was picking cronies of
his father's -- Colin Powell for secretary of state and Donald Rumsfeld for
secretary of defense. Parodists portrayed Bush as a spoiled boy turning to
father figures for advice on how to negotiate a new and complicated toy.

When Bush nominated John Ashcroft to serve as attorney general, the critics
suggested that Bush was overthrowing a campaign pledge of compassionate
conservatism and showing something tougher, harder and closer to his true
political objective.

When Bush spoke to the nation, he was rapped for seeming uncertain, wooden and
rote. "He's following in Reagan's footsteps, but he still has not developed that
fine-tuning to present his issues at a level the average guy can understand,"
Reagan adviser Michael Deaver told the Los Angeles Times in May.

The issues he took with him from Austin -- education reform and huge tax cuts
and a commitment to break down partisanship in Washington -- were popular
publicly. The ease with which he got Congress to pass the tax cuts prompted Bush
to speak of an American mandate. Bush's energy policy, stressing renewed oil
exploration and drilling, coal mining and the construction of new nuclear power
plants, threatened to unravel it.

Other issues seemed to resist consensus. The question of whether the federal
government ought to pay for research into human stem cells pitted Bush against
some conservatives ideologically opposed to much federal funding and
fundamentalists who oppose the creation of life outside the womb. But because
stem cells have the potential to be nurtured to create new organs and tissue for
the sick, the very essence of humane medical research, the answer to the
question wasn't simple.

When Jim Jeffords, a senator from the Blue state of Vermont, left the Republican
Party in the spring to become an Independent, he raised the fear of a renewed
partisan struggle in Washington. Jeffords had never been much of a Republican.
His voting record looked like that of a Democrat. But his defection gave
Democrats control of the Senate and an advantage in parrying Bush's initiatives.

By the summer, the partisans would be delivered a potent political weapon. In
late May, buoyed by promises of federal budget surpluses in the trillions of
dollars over the next decade, Congress passed $1.35 trillion in tax cuts over
the next 11 years. Democrats charged that the president was being fiscally
irresponsible.

Although publicly popular, the cuts came as the signs of an economic slowdown
had become glaring. As economists changed the language from "slowdown" to
"recession," the White House announced that the projected federal budget
surpluses had disappeared. As Republicans and Democrats blamed each other for
the vanished surplus, American companies laid off hundreds of thousands of
workers.

The economy failed to fully recover after 11 cuts in the prime interest rate by
the Federal Reserve in 2001. But even as the president and Congress tried to
agree on a package of tax cuts and benefits to workers to assist in a national
economic recovery, some economists cautiously pointed to the end of the
recession.

Awash in a moral morass

Despite the economy's struggle, the public, it seemed, wasn't paying
particularly close attention to the political wrangling. After the eight-year
presidency of Bill Clinton, scandal and titillation had long since superceded
domestic policy among our pleasures and distractions. The always-willing Clinton
was ready to oblige.

Days before leaving office, Clinton pardoned Marc Rich, who had fled the country
rather than face federal prosecution for his financial dealings. Coincidentally,
Clinton said, Denise Rich, the fugitive's former wife, had donated $450,000
toward the future Clinton library in Little Rock, Ark.

The day after Clinton vacated the White House, the caretakers disclosed to
reporters that Clinton and his wife, the newly elected Democratic senator of New
York, made off with $190,027 in furniture, dishes and other gifts. The Clintons
said they assumed the gifts were meant for them. Officials believed these were
gifts to the nation that ought to stay in the White House. The Clintons offered
restitution for about half of the gifts.

In the moral climate that was early 2001, anything seemed possible. In January,
the Rev. Jesse Jackson, political gadfly and crony of the Clintons', admitted
upon a reporter's inquiry that he had fathered a child out of wedlock. Jackson,
too, apologized and said he had been paying child support.

Clinton and Jackson weren't alone in purveying sex and theatrics. Professional
wrestling magnate Vince McMahon and NBC offered us the XFL. They promised
football more like wrestling and cheerleaders more like strippers. In February,
it was the most talked-about story in sports. In May, it was dead, costing the
investors about $75 million. The unforgettable, syntax-defying nickname on the
back of the jersey of the freak league's only identifiable player, Rod Smart,
said it all: "He Hate Me."

In April, we learned that space programs could be bought, just like anything
else, when Los Angeles investor Dennis Tito bought a $20 million ticket on a
Russian Soyuz space shuttle. Mission control chief Vladimir Solovyov, seeing the
potential salvation of the Russian space program, said, "Let's hope that
interest in space tourism will be shown. There are a lot of rich people. Why
shouldn't they fly for their own pleasure?"

By the time Tito came back to Earth, every one of us, it seemed, was looking for
Chandra Levy and wondering why U.S. Rep. Gary Condit, D-Calif., wasn't helping
us.

There were other stories, one more diverting than the next. How did the White
House plan to deal with the "Chuy's Affair," the underage drinking tickets
handed out to presidential daughters Jenna and Barbara Bush in late May in
Austin? In July, we learned that OxyContin, a synthetic opiate referred to as
"hillbilly heroin," was our newest scourge. In August alone, self-proclaimed
Mormon Tom Green went to jail in Provo, Utah, for polygamy, Danny Almonte
scandalized the Little League World Series when we learned he was older than the
allowed age and, of course, Al Gore grew a beard. All of this during the months
that Time magazine called The Summer of the Shark.

Gary and Chandra, the true and rightful heirs of O.J. and Nicole and Bill and
Monica, had staying power. The story had politics, sex and the very real
possibility of foul play, perfect for the tabloids. Mainstream newspapers
dressed up Condit's initial refusal to cooperate with Washington, D.C., police,
who had been looking for Levy since her disappearance April 30, as an issue of
political integrity. The sex and foul play were an expected bonus. Newspaper and
television outlets that at first stoically refused to cover the story covered
the story of not covering the story.

On Sept. 11, according to The Washington Post, Chandra Levy's mother, Susan
Levy, was scheduled to fly to Chicago to be on "Oprah" and then on to New York
and the "Today" show to plead for help in finding her daughter.

That morning, two jets crashed into New York City's World Trade Center towers,
and a third hurtled into the Pentagon. A fourth crashed into a Pennsylvania
field. Susan Levy canceled her flight, and America canceled the Levys.

Heroes rise from tragedy's ashes

In the lives of Americans younger than 65, there had never been anything like
Sept. 11. We had felt the shock of assassination, of President John F. Kennedy
in 1963, his brother and presidential candidate Sen. Robert F. Kennedy in 1968
and civil rights giant Martin Luther King Jr. the same year; the uncertainty of
war, in Korea and in Vietnam; and the sting of terrorism, the hostage-taking by
Iran in 1979 and the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993.

But Sept. 11 was different. You had to have remembered Pearl Harbor to know all
of this anguish at once.

For the rest of that Tuesday, and for days and weeks afterward, we wondered and
worried and waited for the next acts of vengeance, the next scenes of confusion,
chaos, fear and death.

We reproached ourselves for failing to take seriously the acutely hateful
terrorism of Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda terrorist network, which had been
linked to the first trade center bombing. We disbelieved our naivete at not
recognizing the killers among us, eating our pizza, shopping at our stores and
training at our flight schools. We questioned bitterly the lax security at our
borders, in our airports and on our planes.

We conceded ruefully that there was no place left in the world to hide.

And then we put out our flags and went to work.

George W. Bush put on a hardhat and stood arm in arm with New York Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani. Two new heroes, the rookie president and a mayor most recently known
best for living with his girlfriend in the mayor's mansion before his divorce
was final. They stood among the volunteers, workers who would spend night and
day for months at the base of where the World Trade Center towers stood.

Thousands came to New York to help the city rebuild. Washington, D.C., began to
mourn its dead and restore its Pentagon. Millions of others raised billions of
dollars in support.

Despite fears, a singular steely resolve

Across the country, sympathetic Americans held vigils and memorials for the
slain and their families. The site of the trade center wreckage became as much a
shrine as a site of devastation.

This was the ground level at which Bush would make his ideas understood to the
average American. His speeches, steely and assured, reflected our fury and our
resolve. The maturity and experience of Vice President Dick Cheney, Powell,
Rumsfeld and all those cronies in the White House proved invaluable. And if we
continued to worry about Ashcroft, it was within the context of our commitment
to civil liberties and a fair and open judicial process, not simply partisan
politics.

In October, it happened again. Anthrax began killing Americans through the mail.
Postal workers got sick. Letters to political leaders, such as Sen. Tom Daschle,
D-S.D., and national journalists, including NBC's Tom Brokaw, were intercepted.
The assurances of Tommy

Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, that we could adequately
fight a plague of anthrax with drugs were unconvincing. Thousands of Americans
who weren't sick bought Cipro and other antibiotics.

But there was something different now. We worried but did not panic. We also
resisted the xenophobic impulse to automatically blame the anthrax on terrorists
as we continued our hunt for the true culprits. By the end of the year, as the
investigation continues, the anthrax reports and the threat have receded. And
Americans, afraid in the days after Sept. 11 to board airplanes, are flying
again, undeterred by pat-downs and long security lines.

Half a world away, the war begins

The world stood with us. Less than a week after the attacks, the administration
secured support for a war on terrorism from all member nations of NATO, the
first time in the 52-year-history of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization such
unanimity had been achieved. Little more than three weeks later, on Oct. 7, the
United States and Britain began cruise missile and bomber attacks on Taliban
positions in Kabul, Afghanistan, a barren, impoverished, war-ravaged land half a
world away.

Critics in the press expressed early pessimism. The Russians had flailed for 10
years in Afghanistan and lost. On Oct. 31, respected New York Times reporter
R.W. Apple compared Afghanistan to Vietnam and alleged foreign policy experts
anonymously worried that this war on terrorism would become a "quagmire."

The doomsayers could not have been more mistaken. Days before Apple made his
prediction, an alliance of Afghan opponents of the Taliban, the so-called
Northern Alliance, was marching on Kabul under the shroud of savage and surgical
American bombing. Commandos attacked the compound of Mullah Mohammed Omar, the
leader of the Taliban, on Oct. 20.

After a month of American bombing, the rout of Afghan cities began for Taliban
opponents. Kabul, Jalalabad and Mazar-e Sharif in the north, Kandahar in the
south and the smoking caves of Tora Bora. The Taliban army, said to be made up
of fierce warriors who fight to the death, spent the weeks between Thanksgiving
and Christmas running away. Among the remnants of the army, the Americans and
opposition troops continue their hunt for Osama bin Laden and what is left of al
Qaeda. President Bush's popularity ratings are unparalled.

This is, after all, America

On the heels of the Taliban surrender, with talk of the gloating-on-videotape
bin Laden on the run, with the newspapers and networks filled with stories of
American troops' victory after victory in the rugged mountains of Afghanistan,
our eyes are occasionally being diverted back to the insignificant. We have
started to yield to our usual pleasures and distractions. Winona Ryder is
accused of shoplifting, and "The Weakest Link" is in trouble. With George
Harrison gone, there are only two Beatles left to change the course of recorded
history. After months of silence, Condit wants us to know that he was wronged by
the press. Chandra Levy is still missing.

A little less than two months after Sept. 11, in this newsroom and around the
country, people watched transfixed once again, as high drama played out on live
television. Rolling slowly and uncertainly along a south Dallas highway was a
stolen semi-trailer truck with a load of lumber on fire and police in pursuit. A
television station helicopter flew overhead feeding its pictures to a nationwide
audience on CNN and the Fox News Channel.

With every swerve and every near collision there was a swell of nervous laughter
in the newsroom, the kind you hear from a roller coaster as it rounds a
particularly sharp corner. When it was over, without a shootout, without a
single death, a reporter, returning to his desk, said that maybe, just maybe,
America was getting back to normal.

Of course, we aren't. On the morning of Nov. 12, five days after the truck
chase, millions of Americans gathered again around television sets to watch the
smoke from an airplane crash on the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens, N.Y. It is
safe to assume that the first thought of every one of those millions of viewers
was that the 260 people who died on American Airlines Flight 587 were victims of
a second wave of terror.

This is who we are as a nation at the close of 2001, refracting plane crashes
and everything else through Sept. 11 while gaping guiltily at the next white
Ford Bronco. We have changed profoundly, but we are not unrecognizable. We are a
nation with a renewed and deep hunger to exceed our ideals and our expectations.
But this is not a monastic pursuit. Our usual pleasures and distractions have
been whittled to their true size by a perspective forced upon us by terror.

This perspective has allowed the Reds and the Blues to see themselves as a
single nation more clearly than at any time since World War II. To answer one of
the questions posed by David Brooks: We are a common people, if by common we
mean a people bound by our independence and loyalty to those values and
institutions that guarantee our liberty.

It is this fierce dedication to independence that in less desperate times
appears to cleave us into Reds and Blues, blacks and whites, rich and poor.
There has never really been a single national culture or conversation. We have
always fought -- we are fighting now -- so that, for better and worse, Johnny
Michael Spann can grow up, join the CIA and die in the service of his country
while John Walker can grow up, join the Taliban and betray it.

If a victory is to be won, it will be for our differences as well as our
similarities. We fight this war to secure a peace that allows us our noble
notions and our interests in the insignificant. This is the ultimate and
humiliating failure of our enemies: They have crushed neither our idealism nor
our guilty pleasures.

This is, after all, America.

You may contact Mark Lisheron at mlisheron@statesman.com or (512) 445-3663.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               38 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 26, 2001, Tuesday

Departures at ACC lead president to retool staff

BYLINE: M.B. Taboada American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 757 words


The sand is shifting again at Austin Community College.

President Richard Fonte is restructuring his executive team to prepare for the
departure of two top-level executives. The recent announcements follow an exodus
of key administrators in the past 18 months, which to some reflects instability
at the college.

"I think the departures of top-level administrators reflect not only desire for
those people to enhance their careers, but it says something about the climate
of the college," said Joe Lostracco, former president of the Faculty Senate,
which represents 400 full-time teachers. "It also reflects the climate resulting
in the Senate vote of no confidence last year."

Most recent are the resignations of Executive Vice Presidents Elva Concha Allie
and Ana "Cha" Guzman. Both have accepted presidential positions at other Texas
colleges and start their new jobs this summer.

Their departures follow a string of other executive-level resignations,
including Dilip Anketell, associate vice president of facilities; Margie Huerta,
dean of arts and humanities; Jolene Lampton, comptroller; Louis Levy, director
of admissions and records; Jerry Miller, vice president of business; Sue Pardue,
dean of workforce continuing education; and Sheila Rosenberg, executive dean of
adult education.

Fonte said that the departures are not unusual and that he supported Allie and
Guzman in their quests for presidential positions.

"I don't think the turnover at ACC in terms of positions is particularly
unique," he said. "I think if you look at any college in the country, you'd see
that. . . . What we're trying to do is have change that is not so disruptive
that your momentum gets undermined."

Allie, executive vice president over instructional affairs, has accepted a
position as president of Galveston College. She will be the first female and
first Hispanic president in the college's history. Guzman will become the first
female president of Palo Alto College in San Antonio. They are among five
executives during Fonte's tenure who have been appointed to presidential or
chancellor positions at other community colleges.

Last week, Fonte announced the restructuring of his executive team, placing
Steve Kinslow, an executive vice president, in an expanded position. Kinslow
will oversee academic, student and campus affairs. The announcement was greeted
with zeal from faculty and staff members who think the appointment of Kinslow,
who has been with the college for more than two decades, will bring stability to
the institution.

"Many of the faculty have said to me that they feel like they're standing on
shifting sand, and they are," said ACC Trustee Beverly Watts Davis. "I don't
negate any of those feelings but will simply say that, like in a merger, there
is a state of flux and everyone feels threatened, but we're close to the end of
it. . . . What (Kinslow) represents, more than anybody at the college, I think,
is stability."

Stability seems necessary in light of the past year.

In September, the Faculty Senate cast two votes of no confidence: one for Fonte
and his vice presidents and another for the board. Faculty members brought
forward a laundry list of complaints about financial and administrative problems
affecting students and employees, including poor communication with Fonte and
paycheck errors.

Fonte has been president since 1997. During a January evaluation, the board
challenged Fonte to improve on four areas by July: policy compliance,
interpersonal relationships, building the college community and the day-to-day
running of the college. The board next month will consider possible salary
adjustments based on his performance in those areas.

The college has had a history of similar problems, including a 1996 special
meeting of the Faculty Senate that also resulted in a no-confidence vote against
the college's interim president.

Allie and Guzman said no internal issues had any bearing on their decisions to
leave.

"I've enjoyed working with Dick (Fonte), because he's a hard-working president
with high expectations," Guzman said. "But the issue is, when you get to be an
executive vice president of a complex district like this, you're just as viable
to be president of a smaller college."

Said Allie, who has been with the Austin college for two years: "I've given a
lot of myself to ACC, but ACC has also given a lot to me. Galveston is a good
fit. ACC gave me that access."

You may contact Melissa B. Taboada at mtaboada@statesman.com or (512) 445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Austin Community College is losing two executive vice presidents: Elva
Concha Allie, left, is to be president at Galveston College
Ana 'Cha' Guzman will lead Palo Alto College in San Antonio.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               40 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 13, 2001, Tuesday

Motorola Marathon picking up momentum; On 10th anniversary, 9,000

BYLINE: John Maher, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 783 words


Fast becoming known as one of the state's top races, the Motorola Marathon will
have plenty to celebrate as it marks its 10th anniversary Sunday.

"It's one of the best," said Bob Wischnia, deputy editor of Runner's World. "It
used to be more of a Central Texas race. Now, more and more people from around
the country are traveling there. A lot of people have heard great things about
Austin, and it's becoming the race to do at that time of year."

Since 1992 the prize money has swelled from $5,000 to $88,500 and the number of
runners has tripled.  More than 9,000 runners are expected to attempt the
26-mile, 385-yard race this year.

"An event that has been around for 10 years picks up its own momentum in the
running community," race director John Conley said. "The level of professional
athlete has improved."

Linda Somers Smith, who finished second in the 1996 U.S. Olympic trials, is the
biggest name in the women's race. Conley said that she'll get competition from a
pack of Russian runners and that the Russians will be strong on the men's side
as well.

Motorola, which owns the race, recently announced that it would cut 4,000 jobs
from its global work force, but Conley said that would not put a big damper on
the race.

"Everybody knows in high-tech there are adjustments; we could see some belt
tightening coming," Conley said. "We have people who no longer work for Motorola
who volunteer."

The volunteer force, 3,000 strong, is just one of the reasons for the race's
continuing success.

"Austin is one of the best running cities in America. It's the fittest town I've
ever been in," Wischnia said.  "On a per capita basis, I can't imagine any city
having more runners than Austin. Everyone runs. George Bush. The new governor,
Rick Perry. Willie Nelson."

The course, which begins in Northwest Austin and ends in Zilker Park, passes
such sites as the Texas Capitol, the Governor's Mansion, Sixth Street and the
University of Texas . It is, on the whole, a gentle downhill trek with a
400-foot altitude drop from start to finish. That makes it a fast course, one
where runners can aim for a personal best time or strive for a time that will
help get them into the most prestigious marathons.

The Motorola is a qualifying event for the Boston and New York marathons.  It's
also a qualifying event for the International Amateur Athletic Federation World
Championships , which will be held in Edmonton, Alberta, in August. A large
contingent of Russian runners will be running with an eye toward that meet.

Although February might not be Austin's prettiest month, it's been almost ideal
running weather for marathoners.

"Forty to 50 degrees is good," Wischnia said. "You really don't want it any
colder. And 60 degrees might seem ideal, but for a lot of runners that's too
hot.  But even if it gets warm in Austin, it doesn't get warm until 10 or
10:30."

Wischnia even had kind words for the police. "In a lot of cities there's almost
an antagonistic relationship," he said. "The police hate running.  But in Austin
they're terrific. There's even some that are runners." Wischnia added: "I think
it's a terrific race. They do everything right."

All proceeds, with a guarantee of $15,000, will go to LifeWorks, whose mission
is to counsel, educate and support youth, individuals and families in the Austin
area.

You may contact John Maher at 445-3956 or jmaher@statesman.com

(FROM BOX)

The toll

Sunday's Motorola Marathon is expected to use:

1,300,000 drinking cups, 10,000 gallons of water, 30 pounds of Vaseline, 3,000
volunteers, 230 tables, 250 portable toilets, 1,000 rolls of toilet paper, 10
cartons of aspirin, 180 radios, eight golf carts and 1,000 feet of banner
material. Estimated financial impact on Austin from the race weekend is about
$10 million .

Source: Motorola Marathon

The race

* When: Sunday

* Starting times: 6:55 a.m., wheelchairs; 7 a.m., all runners

* Start: Gateway Shopping Center at U.S. 183 and Loop 360

* Finish: Zilker Park on Barton Springs Road

* Entrants: Officials expect more than 9,000 runners.

* Defending champions: Janko Bensa, men, 2 hours, 14 minutes, 10 seconds;
Tatiana Titova, women, 2:34:01 (both times are course records).

* Notes: The 2001 Motorola Marathon is an official qualifying event for the the
U.S. Olympic marathon trials, International Amateur Athletic Federation World
Championships, Boston Marathon, Chicago Marathon and New York Marathon.

* On the Web: www.MotorolaMarathon.com

* Race information: (512) 478-4265 895-8879 or (877) 601-6686

(SEE MICROFILM FOR MAP)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               43 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 4, 2001, Thursday

State quail population drop puzzles experts

BYLINE: Mike Leggett

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 536 words


Even though every inch of Texas was drought stricken last summer and into the
fall, plenty of quail hunters still went into the season with high hopes.

Spring rains apparently had been just right -- and of the correct amounts -- to
help nesting pairs bring off a pretty good hatch. This wasn't supposed to be a
1987 or a 1992, but it was supposed to be pretty good.

But then a strange thing happened. Quail season opened, and people couldn't find
any birds. They blamed that on the higher than normal fall rainfall patterns and
the thick cover that sprang up in their wake.

Still, as time crept by, it became obvious that something else was going on. All
the bobwhites that had been out there on the roads in September and even October
suddenly couldn't be found. I've watched people put dogs down in the best South
Texas quail habitat and spend an entire day without putting up a single covey.

Where did they go? Nobody knows for sure, but by late November word began to
leak out that radio-tagged birds that made up a study group for the Caesar
Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute had died en masse. That turned out not to be
the case, but the reasoning was that birds throughout South Texas had fallen
victim to the same strange killer.

The real truth is somewhere between a total die-off and a good quail year. Even
the scientists at Texas A&M-Kingsville, who work through the institute, are
going back and re-evaluating their data to try to figure out just what did
happen and why.

According to a report from the institute's quail project coordinator, Fidel
Hernandez, more birds died in the fall of 2000 than the previous year. "Last
year, 59 percent of our study population survived from September to Dec. 13,
compared to 33 percent in 2000," Hernandez said.

In addition, the October 2000 mortality was the highest of any month in the two
years of the current study. Hernandez blamed the hot weather of September,
followed by the sudden cold of early October for disturbing the quail's normal
routines and increasing early population declines.

Still, that shouldn't mean a complete lack of quail, which some reports would
have us believe. I know that on the 22,000 acres I spend time at in South Texas,
quail were everywhere in dove season and even during October, but have been
reduced to just a few far flung coveys of blues and bobwhites.

Hernandez said density of surviving quail on an individual ranch depends on the
number of quail that were there when the nesting season ended.  Higher mortality
means fewer birds. "If you had 1,000 birds on Sept. 1 in both years, you would
have had 590 birds on Dec. 13 last year compared to 330 birds this year,"
Hernandez said.

That's a 44-percent difference, certainly enough to get your attention.

The final chapter is yet to be written, but already Hernandez is warning hunters
and land managers to be cautious and conservative in their harvests this season.
"The birds that you will have alive in February are the only ones that will have
a chance to contribute to your spring breeding population," he said.

You may contact Mike Leggett at mleggett@statesman.com or 445-3955.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               44 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 4, 2001, Thursday

Clinton hammers out some progress on Mideast peace,; Last-ditch

BYLINE: Bob Deans, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 626 words


WASHINGTON -- President Clinton kept faint hope alive Wednesday for a Middle
East peace agreement, after Palestinian and Israeli leaders agreed in principle
on a White House plan for 11th-hour negotiations.

The development raised the possibility of a U.S.-led Israeli-Palestinian peace
summit as early as next week -- provided there's an ebb in street clashes in the
West Bank and Gaza.

Both Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian Authority President
Yasser Arafat said they had reservations about Clinton's proposals for bridging
their differences over Palestinian statehood, the future of Jerusalem and the
fates of Palestinian refugees and Jewish settlers.

But the two men agreed to continue working with Clinton's plan, and Barak
dispatched a senior diplomat from Israel to meet with White House envoys today.

U.S. officials hope that Arafat will send his senior diplomats for a follow-up
meeting this weekend to set the table for a possible summit among Clinton, Barak
and Arafat as early as next week.

Barak has insisted that he won't negotiate with the Palestinians unless Arafat
curbs three months of street clashes that have killed about 360 people -- the
vast majority Palestinians -- and injured hundreds of others since Sept. 29.

Arafat, for his part, has called on Israel for restraint in its military and
police response to anti-Israeli protests and attacks.

Wednesday was a relatively quiet day in the region. No deaths had been reported
by early evening, though Israeli troops fired several tank shells at a
Palestinian police post in a Muslim cemetery near the West Bank city of
Ramallah.

One Palestinian was hit in the leg by rifle fire.

In Washington, U.S. officials were careful not to overstate progress on what are
essentially negotiations about the terms of further talks.

"Both sides have now accepted the president's ideas with some reservations. That
represents a step forward," White House spokesman Jake Siewert saidtold
reporters. "But we have a lot of work ahead."

High on the list of areas of discussion will be Arafat's pledges -- reiterated
here in his meetings with Clinton -- to reduce violence in the Palestinian
uprising against Israeli security forces in the West Bank and Gaza.

Arafat vowed to intensify efforts to fight terrorism, step up efforts to arrest
those responsible for violence and resume cooperation with Israeli security
forces.

"Seeing some action on those commitments is going to be critical," Siewert said.
"It's impossible to imagine the parties concluding a deal while there's an
atmosphere and a climate of violence on the ground."

With just 16 days left in his presidency, Clinton and his Mideast diplomatic
corps are racing the clock to try to broker an end to the long conflict between
Palestinians and Jews.

Palestinian sources said Arafat would accept Clinton's proposals only if changes
were made and tough conditions met.

Arafat "will come back to brief his Arab brothers, and only after then will we
declare our final position regarding the American ideas," said Nabil Shaath, a
senior Palestinian peace negotiator.

Israeli Foreign Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami told reporters during a visit in
Stockholm, Sweden, "As to the possibility of striking a deal in the remaining
days, it may be an act of providential miracle that can produce a full deal
between us and the Palestinians."

The White House wasn't ready to rule out a diplomatic miracle, providential or
otherwise.

"I would not presume that we will get this done," Siewert said, "but the
president is committed to trying."

American-Statesman International Staff writer Larry Kaplow contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Palestinian and Israeli officials have agreed in principle to move
toward a peace summit, but a slowdown in the violence that has plagued the
region must come first. Four-year-old Sujud Abdel-Fattah's home was riddled with
bullets Tuesday in the West Bank town of Beitunia.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               46 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 20, 2001, Saturday

10 in Texas; Focus: Central Texas Homes; What kind of house can

BYLINE: Katy Marquardt, Special to the American-Statesman

SECTION: Business; Pg. G1

LENGTH: 559 words


If employment, location and climate were no object, where in the state could you
get the most house for your money? We consulted real estate agents and home
listings in Texas' nooks and found homes both gargantuan and tiny for Austin's
median home price -- $147,000.

"Say you can get three bedrooms more in Abilene than in Austin . . . how many
people would want to trade?" said Jack Harris, research economist with the Real
Estate Center at Texas A&M University. "If you didn't care and you didn't have
to be close to downtown Austin, you'd have a better time finding an inexpensive
house in places like Brownsville, Lufkin, Port Arthur."

1 Marshall

Population estimate 1999: 23,700

Median Income: $40,700

Median Home Price: $68,000 through November 2000

Longview/Marshall average number of days on the market 140

Victorian mansions and historical markers are as abundant in Marshall as the
East Texas pine trees.  Less than 20 miles from the Texas Louisiana border,
Marshall's big draw is its older homes, said Marshall Board of Realtors officer
Nellie Melone.

"There's a lot of interest - people want to save them and update them," said
Malone, adding that older homes make up nearly all of her business.  "You get
more value in floor space, more rooms, more square feet for your dollar.  But
you've got to want an older home... the majority of them don't have a lot of
closets."

This four-bedroom, 2 1/2 bath home was built in 1925 and has about 4,200 square
feet.  Located close to Martshall's main square, the home has formal dining and
living rooms and an office and sits on a half-acre cornet lot - all for
$145,000.

2 Austin

MSA population estimate 1999: 1,146,100

Median income: $58,900

Median home price: $147,000 through November 2000

Average number of days on the market: 36

The Austin-San Marcos metropolitan statistical areas had the least affordable
housing in the South during the third quarter of 2000, according to the National
Association of Homebuilders' Housing Opportunity Index. But median home prices.

"The market for high-end homes has slowed down slightly," said Ronni Sue
Winters, a real estate broker with Re/Max Heart of Texas. "But I don't see much
change for homes in the median up to the $350,000 range."

Only 53 percent of Austinites can afford the median-priced home, down from 59
percent during the same period last year.

3 San Antonio

Population estimate 1999: 1,565,000

Median income: $43,100

Median home price: $93,400 through November 2000

Average number of days on the market: 75

While San Antonio was named one of the 10 most inexpensive metropolitan areas in
the country in a study by consultants Runzheimer International, rising home
prices may be on the horizon, some real estate agents say.

Residential real estate experts are predicting that home prices in the city will
increase about 5 percent -- and the market for low-priced homes will shrink.

"Prices have increased in San Antonio, and there's not as much housing for
lower-income people anymore -- naturally, many are taken out of the
marketplace," said Beverly Paulette, a broker with Coldwell Banker D'Ann Harper
Realtors.

Inside, see what kind of house $147,000 could buy in these and other cities
around the state.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               49 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 11, 2001, Sunday

Can Bush win over firebrand DeLay?; Lawmaker's silence spurs talk of

BYLINE: Jena Heath, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2342 words


WASHINGTON -- He vanquished a war hero in the primaries, quieted his party's
rebels, survived recount hell and garnered media valentines for carrying off a
smooth presidential transition.

Now for the real challenge: Can President Bush make friends with Tom DeLay?

The olive branch-bearing chief executive has extended warm wishes to just about
everyone in this hardly warm-hearted town. He had members of the Kennedy clan
over to the White House for a movie. He met with moderate Democrats and tried to
woo wary members of the Congressional Black Caucus.

But with the exception of group meetings with congressional leaders, Bush hasn't
visited with the powerhouse of the U.S. House, the majority whip from Texas so
renowned for his conservative ideology and hardball tactics that even his recent
low profile hasn't erased his preferred nickname -- the Hammer.

DeLay is breaking his recent absence from the Sunday morning political talk
shows this morning with an appearance on "This Week" on ABC. Last week, he
blastedsparred with U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg over her
criticism of his 1997 proposal to impeach federal judges whose rulings he
believes do not follow the law. Other than that, however, the Republican leader
has shown little of his usual fire since December, when he clashed with
President Clinton over the budget.

At that time, DeLay said: "If he wants to shut down the government, that's his
problem, not ours." The line eerily echoed former House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
war cry during the 1995-96 government shutdown, a move that proved disastrous
for the GOP.

After Bush's ascension to the White House, DeLay gloated: "We are the majority
party in this country. There is no tied election."

His combative rhetoric is nothing new. DeLay's loathing of environmental
regulations motivated him to run for office, and he has called the Environmental
Protection Agency "the Gestapo of government." Intensely partisan, he makes his
disdain for President Clinton clear at every opportunity. It was DeLay who
lobbied colleagues not to settle for censure but to go for impeachment.

Regardless of how inflammatory his rhetoric or his tactics, DeLay's fund-raising
prowess and his ties to K Street -- Washington's lobbyist row -- have made him a
potent threat to any House Republican who dares break ranks.

But DeLay's recent uncharacteristic quietness and the defeat of two congressmen
he backed for committee posts have helped prompt murmuring that his power may be
waning. There is talk that DeLay is either being muzzled in the interests of
Bush bipartisanship or biding his time before he challenges an administration he
considers too eager to befriend the enemy.

Two things are certain: DeLay no longer has a clear threat in the form of
Clinton against which to unify his troops. And no one better personifies the
challenge Bush faces in his own quest for party unity than the former pest
exterminator from Sugar Land.

DeLay chuckles at talk that his star is falling. The man who in the '80s shared
a condo dubbed "Macho Manor " with five fellow Texas legislators and who once
posed with a whip for an article in The New Yorker magazine said he prefers a
lower profile. He blamed the press for speculation that he is keeping quiet at
Bush's behest.

"Frankly, the Washington media was trying to create a story, and there was no
story there, so we decided that it's more important for President Bush to talk
about his agenda and what he wants to do uninhibited by some concocted story
that he and I are at odds and that I'm doing something different than he wants
to do," DeLay said. "Obviously, the smart thing to do is to not go on TV."

The need for unity is a reality that DeLay understands, said GOP consultant
Scott Reed, who managed former U.S. Sen. Bob Dole's 1996 White House bid. He
surmises that DeLay is as concerned with quietly dismantling the environmental
and workplace regulations he loathes as he is with helping to push Bush's
much-touted $1.6 trillion tax cut through a divided Congress.

"The memos DeLay is sending the White House right now are not on the big policy
issues," Reed said. "They're on personnel at the Environmental Protection
Agency, Labor, Commerce, places where you can make a difference.  DeLay's smart.
He knows when to pick his fights, and he recognizes now is the time to lay in
the weeds."

DeLay came out last week in full support of Bush's tax plan. He makes it clear
that he would relish rolling back the Clean Air Act under which the federal
government has declared his Houston district -- whose smog has made national
headlines -- noncompliant. He said he plans to ask Bush to revisit some of the
executive orders Clinton issued in his last days in office, particularly those
strengthening environmental and workplace regulations.

"I don't know how much we're going to be able to do with this president and a
50-50 Senate, but he can certainly do a lot from just an administrative point of
view, and we'll be talking to him a lot," DeLay said.

U.S. Rep. Deborah Pryce of Ohio, one of DeLay's deputy whips, laughed when she
recounted his spoof of his image during a recent retreat for Republican House
members.

"He was poking fun at himself, sort of putting the old Tom DeLay away in a more
humorous way," she said. "He's the Hammer and he's the gruff one and he's all
business, but he got up there with this flower, with this pink carnation, and
was just sniffing it and talking about, 'Oh, I feel so good.  I didn't think I'd
like this bipartisan stuff and hippie beads and peace signs. ' It just gave
everybody a sense that even Tom DeLay is going to have to go with the program,
and he sees it and he sees it clearly."

Behind the scenes

DeLay answers with a simple, "No, not at all," when asked if anyone from the
administration has asked him to tone down his rhetoric. But Bush himself wasted
no time sending the message that the GOP's right wing will need to adopt a
different style, at least publicly, than the one it employed battling Clinton
for eight years.

Pryce said DeLay has heard that message.

"From the very first meeting in the speaker's office when the president came in
to meet with the House leadership, Tom DeLay sat directly across the table from
the president," she said. "The president told Tom something like, 'We're not
going to let them drive wedges between us, are we?' And Tom said loudly and
clearly, 'No, sir, that's not going to happen.' "

The two haven't always been so cordial. They clashed during the campaign when
Bush criticized a plan to cut the budget that he believed would jeopardize
low-income workers, calling it "balancing the budget on the backs of the poor."
DeLay shot back that Bush "doesn't understand how Congress works."

But Bush knows from experience that managing your own party can be a president's
toughest task. It was Republican Gingrich who led the charge against tax
increases in the first President Bush's budget, setting the stage for a deep
distrust that undermined the elder Bush until the end.

So although DeLay may not be asking for -- or getting -- much public attention
from the administration, he is weighing in away from the TV cameras.

Last week he and his chief deputy whip, U.S. Rep. Roy Blunt of Missouri, met
with Vice President Dick Cheney, himself a former minority whip. Blunt, who is
also Bush's liaison to the U.S. House, said the meeting was productive.

"We mostly talked about how you do this job," he said. " There is a lot of
interest on (Cheney's) part in, 'Well, how does this work if you're actually in
the majority?' I think Tom is very optimistic."

After the meeting, Cheney reminded reporters that he and DeLay are "old
friends," and said he is confident they can work together. DeLay agreed.

"I think it's really exciting to have a vice president that's actually
interested in the nuts and bolts of what's going on in the Congress," he said.

The DeLay-Cheney relationship is not to be underestimated, said Tony Rudy,
DeLay's former deputy chief of staff. He recounts how DeLay, at the 1988
Republican convention, told then-Minority Whip Cheney that he wanted to be his
deputy. Cheney gave DeLay a test -- fix it so the convention's rules committee
would change its policy and permit members of Congress onto the convention
floor.

DeLay not only accomplished that goal but also predicted the final vote, wrote
it down on a piece of paper and handed it to Cheney.

That was a sign of things to come, Rudy said.

"When it's time to pass an education reform bill, the administration is going to
turn to Tom DeLay to get the votes," he said. "Time and time again they're going
to be turning to Mr. DeLay to pass critical elements of their agenda, and that
makes for a good working relationship."

Blunt brushed aside speculation that Bush officials have worked to quiet the
fiery whip.

"First of all, neither Tom DeLay nor George W. Bush are the kind of guys that
you go around and slap on the wrist," Blunt said. "The truth is that I think Tom
has a very good political sense of when you're out front and when you're not and
also a much greater appreciation than most people have of just how big a
difference it makes for somebody who agrees with us to have the megaphone at the
White House.

"He has a strategic lack of interest in trying to dilute a message that he
agrees with or that our conference generally agrees with. We're learning, but
there are a few things that you ought to just know, and that's one of them."

Kinder, gentler DeLay?

Present and past DeLay colleagues are wary of talk that the Hammer is putting
down his whip.

"I think there are times for strategic reasons that one's public voice is
lowered and one's private arm-twisting increases," said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett,
an Austin Democrat.  "Tom is a master of that. He is a very effective
strategist, able to maintain discipline within the ranks for the House
Republican caucus."

Those who remember DeLay from his days in the Texas House recall a back-bencher
whose only issue seemed to be trucking deregulation. He was a passionate
conservative who organized a group that met regularly to review bills to make
sure they passed ideological muster.

He was not so much wedded to political party, but few in Texas were.
Partisanship was virtually nonexistent in the days when Democrats overwhelmingly
outnumbered Republicans. In 1979, the year DeLay entered the House, there were
34 Republicans and 116 Democrats; the Senate held four Republicans and 27
Democrats. DeLay served from from 1979 to 1983 and went off to Washington the
next year.

"Tom was very intense about his philosophy," said longtime Texas Rep.  Tom Uher,
a Bay City Democrat, (D-Bay City). "He was a conservative, but, you know, we
didn't deal in the divided world that they live with in Washington. The year
that we were roommates, there were six of us. There were three of us that were
Democrats and three of us that were Republicans.  We got along fabulously well.
We were like brothers. Basically, we were all on the same page."

That changed once DeLay hit Washington.

One former Democratic congressman who served with DeLay in Texas and later in
Washington, who asked not to be named, describes him as a friend and as "a
rhetorical fire breather, getting up on the microphone and making these
incendiary speeches."

"I keep having this image of him," he said. "He walks up to the microphone and
starts in one of those ad hominem attacks on somebody. I keep thinking he's
going to stop. He's talking about the president and the leadership and
mysterious liberals who are calculating the overthrow of the government or
something."

What DeLay needed to become the Hammer was the right petri dish -- a place where
party loyalty and ideology mix to create partisanship.  Washington turned out to
be that place.

"The difference in the state and the national climate and the difference between
the Legislature and Congress may make for greater contrasts, but he's probably
pretty much the same fellow with the same economic and social values," said
Dallas County Judge Lee Jackson, a Republican who served with DeLay in Texas.

"I don't think the style Tom brought from Texas created partisanship in
Washington. He simply wasn't interested in running away from the issues . .  .
and wasn't interested in compromising before the fight even began."

A Texas lobbyist based in Washington said talk of a softer DeLay is just that --
talk.

"My guess would be that nothing that Bush does will be right-wing enough for Tom
DeLay," said the lobbyist, who preferred not to be named. "I was saying during
the terrible five weeks, if Bush makes it, Tom DeLay is going to be his worst
nightmare, and I still think that that is true."

DeLay, for now at least, is laboring to prove the naysayers wrong. Is the nation
about to see a new Tom DeLay?

"I don't know," DeLay said. "Maybe. I've still got to get the votes to pass the
legislation. . . . I don't deal on how powerful you are or how powerful you're
not. I just try to get my job done."

You may contact Jena Heath at jenah@coxnews.com or (202) 887-8324.

(from box)

House Majority Whip Tom DeLay

* Born: Laredo, April 8, 1947.

* Politics: Elected to Congress in 1984. As U.S. House majority whip, the
third-highest ranking member. Rounds up the votes needed to pass GOP
legislation. Represents the 22nd congressional district, which includes
Brazoria, Fort Bend and Harris counties; first Republican from Fort Bend County
ever sent to the Texas House, where he served from 1979-1983.

* Profession: Former pest control business owner.

* Education: Attended Baylor University; University of Houston graduate.

* Family: Wife, Christine; daughter, Dani Ferro.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tom DeLay, R-Sugar Land

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               50 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 16, 2001, Friday

H-P earnings fall; reorganization, computer sales faulted

BYLINE: Bob Keefe, American-Statesman West Coast Bureau

SECTION: Business; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 634 words


Joining a parade of hard-hit technology companies reporting bad news,
Hewlett-Packard Co. said its quarterly earnings fell by 12 percent because of a
slowing economy, poor computer sales and ongoing problems resulting from a
sweeping internal reorganization.

H-P executives, echoing concerns expressed at Dell Computer Corp.  on Thursday,
said they're not bullish on the near-term future .

"We could see revenue growth in the second half if the U.S. economy improves as
some economists expect and current foreign exchange rates hold," H-P Chairman
and Chief Executive Carly Fiorina said in a conference call with analysts.
"However, visibility remains extremely limited and we are not counting on a
return to double-digit revenue growth this year."

On a pro-forma basis, H-P earned $727 million, or 37 cents a share, for its
first fiscal quarter which ended Jan. 31, meeting the expectations of a
consensus of analysts. In the first quarter a year ago, H-P earned $825 million,
or 40 cents per share, on a pro forma basis, which excludes the effects of
investment income, taxes and other accounting charges.

On a net basis, H-P earnings for the quarter fell 59 percent to $328 million, or
17 cents a share.

The results, announced after the close of regular stock market trading, pushed
H-P's shares down $1.84 in after-hours trading to close at $34.51.

Palo Alto, Calif.-based H-P said it was particularly hurt by poor sales of
personal computers and high-end servers as consumers and businesses put off
major purchases of new equipment. H-P said it lost $19 million in its computing
systems division after making $190 million in the division a year earlier.
Company executives indicated they don't expect sales in those markets to improve
much in the second quarter.

Yet the technology stalwart also suffered because of internal missteps related
in part to a rigorous rebuilding program started by Fiorina shortly after taking
the company's reins in 1999. The reorganization is designed to transform H-P
from an old-line behemoth focused on printers and PCs to one that's omnipresent
in the ever-changing technology business.

"It's been very disruptive to people there," said AG Edwards & Sons Inc. analyst
Shebly Seyrafi. "There's a big accountability problem at the company . . . and
salespeople are a bit confused about their goals."

Problems resulting from the restructuring popped up com- panywide in the
quarter. H-P started pulling back on its marketing for some lines of servers,
for instance, just as its competitors increased their marketing programs.
Meanwhile, sales initiatives started both internally and by H-P contractors
occasionally overlapped or missed entire segments of potential customers,
resulting in lost business.

And, like other computer makers, H-P completely misjudged the devastating
downturn in the computer business late last year.

"The fact is, we geared up for business in a much more robust business climate,
and when that foundation rapidly eroded, our revenue growth, margins and expense
structure suffered," Fiorina said.

H-P, which cut 1,700 of its 88,500 jobs worldwide last month as part of the
restructuring, gave no indication that it planned more job cuts such as those
announced by Dell Computer Corp. and other technology companies.

H-P's top executives have said they're committed to the changes, even though the
timetable to complete them is lengthy.

"This is not something that's going to be done tomorrow," Duane Zitzner, a
Fiorina top lieutenant and president of H-P's computing systems division, said
in an interview earlier this week. "There's no doubt we're going to be a
stronger company because of it ."

You may contact Bob Keefe at bkeefe@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               52 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 9, 2001, Friday

Panel Picks

BYLINE: Omar L. Gallaga, Vanessa Juarez, Charlotte Moore, Cara Anna

SECTION: Technopolis; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 1157 words


With the parties, movie screenings and special events that take place during
South by Southwest Interactive, it can be easy to forget the heart of the fest
-- the panels where the state of technology is discussed and the future of where
our digital world is taking us is sometimes woven in the guise of public
discussion.

This year's festival will include a lot of talk about post-technology.  Music in
a post-Napster world. Technology in a post-gold rush economy.

Wherever the conversation turns, you're likely to find several panels that
appeal to your tech sensibilities, whether you want to know about the future of
Web design or the current state of venture capital. Technopolis spoke to four of
the people who will be on South by Southwest Interactive panels this year.
They're anything but post. Instead, they represent four views of the current
state of what's happening in our wired world. No matter if they're discussing
wearable computers, robots, content on the Web or a workforce made up of the
self-employed, they represent an extraordinary group of intellectuals, hipsters,
artists and businesspeople who will tell us where we are and where we're going.

You'd better believe we'll be listening.

-- Omar L. Gallaga

Katrina Brillova

Sunday, 3:30 p.m.

Katrina Brillova's very name implies femme fatales and James Bondesque mystique.
It doesn't hurt that she also trained as an intelligence agent in her native
Czechoslovakia while Communism reigned.

Luckily for anyone who might have crossed her path, Brillova never had to use
the skills she learned as an operative. Instead, she joined the tech world,
becoming involved in security and eventually getting involved with Charmed
Technology, a Beverly Hills, Calif.-based firm promoting wearable computers.

"In security, I used a lot of devices that helped me navigate through different
fields -- sensors and listening devices. I learned how important they were: They
gave me superhuman powers," Brillova said.

She'll be speaking about wearable computers, touting their functionality and the
goal of her company: To move the Earth's population closer to a wired world.

"Imagine a world," she said, "if at least half the world was connected to the
Internet. It would be a totally different world."

Brillova has spearheaded fashion shows around the world, showing off tools that
incorporate biometrics, security and even the fun of a badge that measures your
compatibility with others who are connected by similar devices.

Brillova will speak on "Wearable Computers," 3:30 p.m. Sunday.

-- Omar L. Gallaga

Mark Melliar-Smith

Monday, 1:30 p.m.

Wondering what nanobots are? According to Mark Melliar-Smith, a first-time SXSW
panelist, they are the envisioned robots of the future, smaller than the
diameter of a single strand of human hair and capable of moving single cells.
Melliar-Smith, chief executive and president of International SEMATECH, will
primarily be speaking about the semi-conductor industry's role in
nanotechnology.

"The semiconductor industry has provided us with the ability to make very small
machines, which are of the same size as biochemical items like blood cells,
bacteria and such," Melliar-Smith said. "By combining these with innovative
biochemistry we are beginning to be able to do things that we could only dream
about in the past. Much the way the invention of the computer changed our lives
in ways that were unexpected, similarly these small machines will do the same
over the next several decades."

Melliar-Smith, a fourth-year Austinite, has been in the chips and fiber optics
business for 30 years. Before working for SEMATECH, Melliar-Smith was executive
director of the Integrated Circuits Division at AT&T Bell Laboratories, where it
became clear integrated circuits and fiber optics would have a huge impact on
business and society.

Melliar-Smith is speaking on "Nanobots: An overview of the tiny machines that
will be the workhorses of tomorrow," 1:30 p.m. Monday.

-- Vanessa Juarez

Daniel H. Pink

Tuesday, 11 a.m.

On Independence Day in 1997, Daniel H. Pink became a free agent. He left his job
as chief speechwriter for former Vice President Al Gore and began a professional
trek toward independence from his home office. "I moved from the White House to
the Pink house," he jests.

Now, he helps other free agents -- freelancers, e-lancers, entrepreneurs,
contractors, consultants and other self-supporting professionals -- achieve
long-term wealth, success and a balanced life.

"Free agency is the passkey -- the decoder ring -- to understanding what's going
on in the economy," Pink says. "The millions of people who have become
independent, not to mention the millions more who hold traditional jobs but who
are thinking independently, are reshaping our idea of the 'work

ethic' -- reshaping our notions of security, loyalty, and changing the
fundamental principals by which we operate. This change in thinking is affecting
everything from politics and real estate to the health industry and education."

After traveling the country, interviewing hundreds of independent workers, Pink
authored "Free Agent Nation: How America's New Independent Workers are
Transforming the Way We Live," to be released next month. He lives in Washington
D.C. with his wife and their two daughters. He is speaking Tuesday at 11 a.m. on
"Free Agent Nation," a career panel on strategies for freelancing new media
skills.

-- Charlotte Moore

Katherine Mieszkowski

Tuesday, 3:30 p.m.

Katherine Mieszkowski grew up in Clear Lake, Texas, home of NASA's mission
control. She helped set up Women's Wire (now Women.com Networks) in 1994, and
she's currently the senior technology writer for Salon.com. She also does
commentaries for National Public Radio's "All Things Considered."

How fun can this tech fest be, we asked, considering the current economy?  "The
fact that the get-rich-quick IPO has gone away doesn't mean that the Web isn't
fun anymore, although it does seem to mean there are fewer high-paying, creative
jobs for liberal arts majors," she said.

Note: She got a B.A. in literature.

"The panel I'm moderating is about independent content producers. Doesn't that
sound so 1995? Maybe we're returning to a climate like the early days of the
Web, when it was all about people having a cool idea and putting up a site, not
just raising $30 (million) in venture capital to try to go public in 18 months."

Any advice for those thousands of fresh tech jobless in Austin?

"I don't have any secret formula for finding interesting work. But I will say
this: In any job you take, assume that you're working for the cash, not for the
stock options.

Mieszkowski is a moderator for "Making a Living with Non-Mainstream Content,"
3:30 p.m. Tuesday.

-- Cara Anna

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               53 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 15, 2001, Thursday

A blast from the past kicks off15th annual South by Southwest; SXSW's

BYLINE: Chris Riemenschneider, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1459 words


Thousands of music industry professionals will converge today at the Austin
Convention Center for what many call the first day of business for the South by
Southwest Music Conference.

Local club owners, musicians and the festival's organizers know that the event
really started last night. In fact, it's the nighttime shows that make SXSW an
event few other cities could spawn.

SXSW pulls off a minor miracle year after year by getting so many of Austin's
club owners, musicians and volunteers to participate. It's an effort they
couldn't duplicate in Portland, Ore., where an offshoot conference that lacked
local support was canceled in January.

It's also a feat that organizers had to work especially hard to achieve for the
15th annual SXSW. Owners at some of Austin's most prominent music venues,
including Flamingo Cantina, Stubb's and the Continental Club, have bumped heads
with organizers over business matters. Meanwhile, the ever-changing makeup of
the local nightlife scene forced SXSW staff to recruit many new and unlikely
venue owners.

Wednesday was the first night of SXSW's live music showcases. About 200 bands
with names ranging from Primordial Undermind to Hairy Apes BMX played on 30
stages. And that was just the start. Beginning tonight, 48 venues will be used,
and more than 900 bands are scheduled to perform by the time the party ends
Sunday.

Though they proudly tout the business activities at the convention center,
organizers do not underplay the importance of these nightly showcases or the
support of the music scene.

"We've achieved a consensus of people who have decided that SXSW is a good thing
for themselves and the city," said managing director Roland Swenson. "If we ever
lose that, SXSW will be over in a very short amount of time."

SXSW demands much from the music community. Club owners let conference
organizers book their acts and take the door money during SXSW. Local musicians
share their hometown stages with out-of-town bands and essentially take a pay
cut for the week. And several hundred hangers-on put in 30 hours or more of work
as volunteers.

SXSW offers plenty in return. Most clubs see their bar sales increase during the
event, sometimes double or more. Bands are exposed to music professionals from
around the globe. Volunteers gain experience that can lead to jobs in the music
industry (not to mention those coveted wristbands and badges). And any of these
scenesters can at least enjoy the change of pace.

Among the new club owners SXSW appealed to this year was Josh Cisneros, owner of
the Sixth Street rock club the Metro. He considered not taking part but changed
his mind.

"(Organizers) have gone out of their way to treat us right," said Cisneros. "I
think it's the best conference ever, and I'm proud we're a part of it."

James White, owner of the Broken Spoke in South Austin, is hosting the club's
first SXSW showcases on Friday and Saturday -- important nights in the country
dancehall world.

"We have our regular bands and customers on weekends, and I didn't want them to
feel left out in the cold," said White. "But I think, after all this time, even
they understand that things are run different when SXSW is in town."

'They can be thugs'

Not every club owner is happy, though. Two Sixth Street venues with year-round
live music, Flamingo Cantina and Babe's, pulled out of the conference and booked
their own shows this year. Owners at other popular spots say they have grown
frustrated with SXSW.

"It's sort of a wait-and-see year for us," said Continental Club owner Steve
Wertheimer, who may stay out of the next conference.

Among the beefs some of these club owners have:

* Wertheimer said SXSW organizers have often left him with a half-empty club. He
blamed it on the acts SXSW booked there, which he felt were either too obscure
or didn't fit the Continental's usual blend of roots rock and vintage country.
"There have been some years we probably could have done better business on our
own, whether SXSW was happening or not."

* Flamingo Cantina owner Angela Gillen was also unhappy about the bands SXSW
booked in her punk and reggae bar. Since dropping out of the conference, she has
accused SXSW staff of trying to steal away acts she booked on her own, including
Jamaican legend Lee "Scratch" Perry. She also butted heads with them over local
acts she booked for "pirate" showcases, who were told by SXSW that they could
not play those and a conference showcase. Said Gillen, "They can be real thugs."

* Stubb's co-owner Charles Attal, who has the second-biggest venue at SXSW,
questions "the way they sometimes do business." His dispute is over private
parties he has booked with bands not also playing SXSW showcases, including this
year's controversial gig by mid-'90s hard rock band the Cult.

Babe's owner John Jewett said he doesn't have any particular grievances with
SXSW; he says he simply decided to focus on the restaurant side of his business
(the place is well-known for burgers), which proved more profitable than bar
sales last year. He has booked many of his regular bands to play there as if it
were any other week.

Babe's and Flamingo Cantina join several other clubs that have booked their own
music during SXSW, including the Saxon Pub, Black Cat Lounge, Caucus Club,
Jovita's and Ego's. Babe's owner Jewett said that while these venues are in the
minority, their absence is felt because they are some of the better-known music
venues in town.

Said Gillen, "SXSW makes a lot of club owners happy who only host live music one
week out of the year, but what about the ones who have bands playing
year-round?"

North by nowhere

Similar complaints were voiced in Portland during the six years that SXSW
organizers staged the North by Northwest Music Conference there.

SXSW Inc. pulled the plug on NXNW in January, blaming its lack of growth on the
music industry's stagnant business climate. However, they also admitted that the
event never enjoyed the amount of local support SXSW has, a point heavily
covered by Portland media.

"It had its critics here," said Mark Zusman, editor of Willamette Week, which
was also NXNW's co-sponsor. The weekly newspaper plans to launch a new local
conference, and its goal, Zusman said, "will be to celebrate and promote our
regional music, which NXNW wasn't doing well enough."

SXSW organizers may relaunch NXNW, but in another city.

"We never got away from the carpetbagger image with a lot of (Portland) groups,"
Swenson said.

Taken for granted

For obvious reasons, SXSW does not have that kind of image problem in Austin --
as evidenced by the majority of club owners and 200-plus local bands taking part
in the conference.

Speaking specifically about the disputes this year, SXSW stands by its position
that Stubb's should not put on a private concert by the Cult because it shuts
out too many of the conference's paying attendees in favor of top industry
brass. They say the defunct New Music Seminar, a SXSW-like event held in New
York in the '80s, suffered because of similarly elitist events. Such
prohibitions are covered in SXSW's contracts with clubs and participating
companies.

Said Swenson, "We have a very short list of policies that we have put in place
that we sincerely believe are in the best interests of the survival of SXSW. We
are very firm and unyielding when it comes to dealing with people who want us to
deviate from those policies."

As for complaints about how SXSW books venues such as Flamingo Cantina and the
Continental Club -- which have average capacities of 200 to 300 -- organizers
say they work hard to spread the types of music around in clubs of this size on
purpose, to enhance the festival's variety. They admitted trying to recruit some
of Flamingo Cantina's acts but said it was no different than when two concert
promoters make bids for the same act, which is common in the music business.

Such disputes, Swenson said, are usually with a minor number of club owners "who
take SXSW for granted, and say to us, 'Why should I work with you? I can make
money off of your event without being part of it.' "

Even most of the club owners who have deviated from SXSW say they have no ill
will for the event itself and hope it continues to prosper. The Saxon Pub's Joe
Ables said, "The conference didn't work too well for me, but it does plenty of
good for other clubs and the music scene in general."

Said Attal at Stubb's, "It's still a great event, no question. We get a lot of
business out of it, and a lot of exposure. But that doesn't mean SXSW owns us."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This is the first year that Josh Cisneros, owner of the Metro, has
taken part in SXSW. Cisneros, here chatting with Camille Sierra, says organizers
have 'gone out of their way' for him.//Angela Gillen, owner of Flamingo Cantina,
bypassed SXSW to have her own showcases this year. She was unhappy with the acts
booked at her venue.//Their bands might've been hot when South by Southwest got
its start 15 years ago, but Kim Longacre, Kathy McCarty and Cindy Toth can still
rock. At the Austin Music Awards, they reunited in the form of the nostalgia
supergroup 86ed on a night that mixed the musical past and future.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               54 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 18, 2001, Sunday

Tech companies test law onl layoffs; WARN Act requires certain firms

BYLINE: Jerry Mahoney, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1274 words


The Internet's role in many of the layoffs that have roiled the economy this
year may test the flexibility of a federal statute designed to warn workers who
are about to lose their jobs.

The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act requires companies to give
employees and public officials a 60-day notice of plans for a mass layoff or
plant closure. The law has exemptions for failing businesses that are trying to
raise money and for companies hurt by rapidly changing business conditions.

More than 5,000 Austin-area employees have been laid off this year.  Nationwide,
more than 80,000 telecommunications, e-commerce and computer-industry employees
were laid off in January and February, according to the outplacement firm
Challenger, Gray and Christmas.

Multilayer Technology Inc. blamed the economy when it dismissed about 600
workers at its circuit board plant in Northwest Austin. The company's Jan.  19
letter to the Texas Workforce Commission said "the sudden change in economic
conditions" created demand for cheaper boards than Multek made in Austin.
Employees who were to be dismissed were told Jan. 19, and layoffs were effective
within a week.

Multek's owner, Flextronics Inc., is the world's second-largest contract
electronics manufacturer, with 150 factories in 27 countries. Linked by a global
network, the plants rapidly shift production based on market conditions. Multek
officials and Flextronics executives in San Jose, Calif., have declined numerous
requests to comment about the layoffs.

Companies with 100 or more employees risk a lawsuit if they don't comply with
the federal statute, known as the WARN Act. Although such lawsuits are uncommon,
companies accused of violating the act have found the exemptions to be limited
protection, lawyers say.

"It's not an exception that employers like to hang their hat on," said Regina
Williams, an employment-law specialist with Thompson & Knight in Austin. "The
defense invites lawsuits over the question of the legitimacy of the reason
offered by the employer and whether a shortened notice period under WARN was
still required and violated."

Many dot-coms and Internet startups did not meet the WARN Act threshold.  They
employed fewer than 100 people, or the layoffs didn't total 50 full-time
workers.

Interpreting the act

Others use different interpretations. Dell Computer Corp. gave 1,700 workers who
were dismissed last month at least eight weeks of pay, which a spokesman said is
the equivalent of a 60-day notice. Employees who agreed not to sue Dell got
more.

The WARN Act is designed to give employees and government agencies that retrain
workers time to prepare for layoffs. A warning would have made a difference for
Dung Hoang, a 30-year-old mother of two who worked at Multek for 11 of the 12
months she had been in the United States.

With only two days' notice that her job repairing defects on circuit boards was
being eliminated, the Vietnamese immigrant was too distraught to attend weekly
classes in English as a second language. She said that when she returned to
class a few days later, she was told she had missed too many days to continue in
that session.

"I was very depressed because this is my first job in the United States," Hoang
explained, with translation help from Sister Ane Nguyen of Capital IDEA, a
nonprofit worker-training group.

Hoang, who is still looking for another job, said she received about $1,400 from
Multek, less than four weeks' pay.

The 60-day requirement was designed to give workers time to prepare for the
career disruption, but the WARN Act predates the Internet and other
technological advances that revolutionized the way information is sent.

"Not to let employers off the hook, but I think we ought to be taking a very
hard look at whether you can implement those provisions in the Internet world,"
said University of Texas labor scholar Chris King.

Protections, exemptions

But King, who directs the Ray Marshall Center for the Study of Human Resources
at the LBJ School of Public Affairs, said the well-being of workers must be
protected.

"How do you get labor and management involved in decision-making, so labor is
not left out in the cold?" King asked. "And how do we streamline things like
unemployment benefits?" The WARN Act, which became law without President
Reagan's signature in 1988, does not give the U.S. Department of Labor
enforcement power. That rests primarily on lawsuits by laid-off workers, unions
or other private groups.

"WARN is one of our focuses . . . because it doesn't go to any government agency
to enforce it," said Mark Fancher, a lawyer with Maurice and Jane Sugar Law
Center for Economic and Social Justice. The Detroit organization said it is
considering whether to sue several high-tech companies on WARN Act violations,
including Living.com Inc., which filed for bankruptcy last year.

A spokeswoman for the workforce commission said Living.com did not report its
closing, which cost 270 workers their jobs.

ConnectSouth Communications Inc. and Hart Graphics Inc. cited the act's
exemption for "faltering companies" when they abruptly laid off workers last
month.

Hart's Feb. 26 letter to the commission said employees were told in August that
the company needed a cash infusion. Executives also hired a firm to seek a buyer
for the printing plant on Shoal Creek Boulevard.

"It is now clear that no buyer or investor is going to save Hart Graphics in the
current slow economy, and we are out of cash," the company said in its letter to
the commission. Hart, whose origins reach back nearly 90 years, had 225 workers.

Barely a year old, ConnectSouth provided high-speed Internet access to business
customers in small southern markets. It tried to raise operating cash after an
early backer canceled a $125 million loan. In its Feb. 16 letter to the
workforce commission announcing 230 layoffs, the company said that warning
employees of potential layoffs would have hurt efforts to raise cash.

The company likely bolstered its case for a faltering business when it filed for
protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code last week.

You may contact Jerry Mahoney at jmahoney@statesman.com or (512) 445-3642.

The WARN Act of 1988

The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act requires companies that
have 100 or more employees to give a 60-day notice of a plant closing or mass
layoff.

If:

* The plant closing affects at least 50 full-time employees.

* Layoffs in any 30-day period affect at least one-third of full-time workers
and at least 50 workers.

* The layoff affects 500 or more workers, regardless of percentage.

Unless:

* The company is failing and actively seeking more money or new business that
would enable it to stay open. Company must "reasonably and in good faith
believe" that giving employees a 60-day notice would prevent it from raising
money or getting more business.

* The closing or layoff was caused by business conditions that were not
"reasonably foreseeable."

* The employees are offered transfers within a "reasonable commuting distance."

* The layoff or closing results from a strike or lockout.

Penalties

* Companies can be fined up to $500 a day, up to 60 days, and be required to pay
employees' lost wages and benefits.

Enforcement

* Usually up to employee or private groups to sue the employer. No government
agency has the authority to enforce the act.

Because of size, many dot-coms exempt from act

Continued from A1

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               55 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 18, 2001, Sunday

Road trip to Tuscany; The drive can be harrowing, and forget about

BYLINE: Dale Rice, American-Statesman Restaurant Critic

SECTION: Travel; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 1832 words


MONTALCINO, Italy -- It was there on the menu -- a subject of my culinary
dreams, but one I had consumed only from the written page: cinghiale.

The wild boar of Tuscany, one of the renowned dishes of a rich and enticing
region, was available in three styles that Sunday afternoon.

Pappardelle with cinghiale sauce. Stewed cinghiale over polenta. Roasted
cinghiale.

What choice. What opportunity. What to do?

Under the circumstances, there was only one conceivable route through the
mid-afternoon repast. The pappardelle with cinghiale for my "first plate" and,
for the second, roasted cinghiale for me and stewed cinghiale for my traveling
companion. Three tantalizing ways to savor the wild taste of Italy.

It was a perfect way to follow the appetizer of pecorino gratinee, a delicious
opening for the four-course meal that rapidly replaced the light lunch we
intended to have on the road from Rome to Siena.

The melted pecorino cheese was served with a strong-flavored local honey that
the owner of Trattoria Bar Sciame said could be mixed with the cheese and spread
on chunks of rustic bread.

The pale yellow, sharp cheese -- mingled with the golden, sweet honey and the
yeasty bread -- prompted us to abandon our plans and succumb to the charms of
this little cafe in Montalcino.

Dark wood beams, supporting smaller handhewn crossbeams that held the
second-story brick floor, dominated the room. Nine tables covered in pink
tablecloths over red were crowded, providing a lively setting.

Then the "primi piatti" arrived. Pinci con ragu, a fat spaghetti that's the
specialty of the area, for my companion, the pappardelle with cinghiale sauce
for me.

I wrapped the wide ribbons of pasta around my fork and coated them with the
thick, dark sauce embedded with chunks of wild boar. With the first mouthful,
rich game flavors filled my head.

A dream come true.

The ride had been worth it.

When

in Rome

I hadn't been so sure it was a good idea that morning.

Heading for the main railway station in Rome, our taxi swerved around
pedestrians, slipped past buses and darted in and out of streets that never
converged at right angles.

Was this wise? Could we actually traverse the city of Rome and find a country
road that would lead us to Siena by nightfall? Or would sunset find us turning
from one odd-angled street to another, hopelessly confined to the Eternal City?

When the taxi slammed to a whiplash stop at the station, my doubts doubled.
Needlessly.

After completing paperwork in the station, we crossed the street to pick up the
rental car. The attendant was delighted to give us directions, marking our way
on a map.

There were only a few turns before we hit a street that ran north for miles,
eventually connecting with one of the highway loops around the city.

Several miles on the loop and it was time to exit for Siena. We could have taken
the equivalent of an interstate. Instead, we chose a country road.

Suburbs slowly gave way to countryside. A lake appeared. A medieval walled
village rose high above a massive stone outcropping. For a moment it was tough
to separate road trip from flight of fancy.

But only for a moment.

Then the road took a diabolical twist, and suddenly we were riding the line
between fear and beauty.

To get an idea of the drive, think of RM 2222. Then sharpen the curves.  Narrow
the road. Bring a forest up to the pavement edge on one side. Put a cliff on the
other. And remove the guardrails.

But after some harrowing turns, the forest disappeared and vistas took its
place. Vineyards, dotted with groves of olive trees, captivated the eye and
warmed the heart.

After all, wine and food are primary destinations in Tuscany.

Two blessings

On the map, Montalcino -- the center of a region famous for Brunello wine made
with Sangiovese grapes -- looked like an ideal spot for lunch.

A side road followed the edge of the stone outcrop up to the walled village and
inside the old fortifications. At that moment, we discovered one of the
conundrums of traveling in Italy: where to park. With cars banned from many
streets and lots of weekend wine shoppers, it was difficult to find a parking
space.

But the frustration of parking was more than offset by the enjoyment of roaming
the little town, stopping in shops like the enoteca (wine store) of Federico
Pazzaglia on the Viale della Liberta, where the owner was happy to give us a
lesson in a product famed for its ability to age well.

"Brunello is the best wine in the world," he said confidently.

In a gray suit a few shades darker than his thinning hair, Pazzaglia held court
-- directing customers to the various producers of the region. Some, such as
Pietroso, are so popular that they don't export the wine; it's available only in
the local shops.

"In Texas," he said, "God gave you a blessing -- you get oil from the soil.
Here, he gave us a blessing -- soil that gives you a wine you can drink after
100 years."

Dressed for dinner

A bottle in hand (adding weight I complained about as I hauled my suitcase up
and down the bridges of Venice), we drove on to Siena.

And found another road-trip challenge.

Cars are allowed only on the fringes of the old city, forcing us to drop our
luggage at the hotel and drive several blocks to an area where it was
permissible to park over night.

Brisk winds didn't deter an after-dark walking tour and a drink at an outdoor
cafe on the main square, a short distance from the small trattoria where we
planned to have dinner.

In this rustic restaurant (which had been discovered years earlier by the New
York Times), we watched in awe as a diner at the next table consumed a bowl of
spaghetti. With a napkin tucked into his collar, covering tie, shirt and much of
his jacket, he repeatedly and rapidly stabbed his fork into the mound of pasta,
popped what the fork held into his mouth and slurped -- with the ends of the
noodles dancing wildly and sending drops of sauce in every direction as they
headed toward his lips.

I could see why he and, more wisely, his companion were wearing dark jackets.

Chianti Road

Siena and Florence are connected by a major highway. But what a waste it would
be to travel it when you can take the alternate "Chianti Road."

Frequently as twisting and intimidating as the route from Rome (with the added
challenge of people passing three-wheeled trucks on curves), the rolling Chianti
Road winds past forests, vineyards, olive groves and villages.

One of the joys of the route is the ability to stop at some of Italy's top
wineries, where it's possible to sample and purchase fabulous wines.  (Remember,
you can bring back only one liter duty-free.)

Outside the small town of Castelnuovo Berardenga, the sign pointed to Fattoria
di Felsina, one of those outstanding producers.

Showing two visitors through the stucco-lined, brick-arched, underground
cellars, winemaker Stefano Rossi discussed the climate and soil conditions that
give his grapes their distinct flavor. He's also proud of what happens in the
winery as well.

"Felsina," he says, "and not just because I work here, is one of the best
chiantis you can get."

A few sips and it was easy to see why it consistently won contests.

Farther up the road, the co-owner of Fontodi -- a top producer with a new,
state-of-the-art facility -- wrapped up a wine tasting with a discussion of the
olive oil that also is produced on the estate.

Dr. Giovanni Manetti summoned a bottle and three glasses, and then poured the
dark green liquid in each. Explaining that he was the first to harvest the olive
crop each year, Manetti picked up a glass, sipped, swirled and swallowed the
oil.

As his guests followed suit, Manetti asked if they could taste the artichoke and
if they could feel the spiciness linger in the back of their throats.

They could.

It was a lasting impression to take on the road, another taste of Tuscany that's
impossible to forget.

You may contact Dale Rice at (512) 445-3859 or drice@statesman.com.

(from box)

Dining in Italy

Here are some tips to help keep the meal pleasant:

* For a good lunch, follow construction workers to a trattoria.

* Avoid the restaurant closest to a main tourist attraction; it's more likely to
be disappointing.

* All restaurants have a basic cover charge, usually presented as a price for
bread on the bill.

* With or without gas? (Sparkling vs. natural?) That's the question your waiter
will ask about the water, which you buy by the bottle.

* When ordering the house wine, tell the waiter up front whether you want rosso
(red) or bianco (white). (They often don't ask.)

* Think twice before taking a seat at a sandwich shop with four or five tables.
Many small places charge more -- often double the marked price -- for eating at
one of the few tables they have.

* Look before you leap. The menu for every restaurant is posted outside, so you
can browse items and prices before entering.

(from box)

Driving in Italy

Here are some tips to help make the trip safe:

* Stay alert. Many Italians in rural areas pass cars on winding roads with no
shoulders.

* Three- and four-day package prices are often cheaper than renting a car for a
day or two.

* Reaching the historic central city in Florence -- where cars in theory are
banned -- can be difficult. Even with a companion who spoke Italian, it required
four stops and more than that number of loops around the city to find our way to
the hotel.

* Parking is often on the fringes of many old towns where narrow 16th and 17th
century streets are limited to pedestrian traffic.

(from box)

Potential best friend

Check in with your hotel concierge. He or she usually is an expert on the city
you are visiting and can make recommendations and reservations, place calls in
the local language, and advise on tipping and other customs. If you are
unfamiliar with the city, pick up a hotel business card when you leave the hotel
for the day. That way, if your taxi driver doesn't speak English, you'll have
something to hand the driver to show where you want to go.

-- Janet Wilson

(from box)

Tips on tipping

In many countries, hotel and restaurant bills include a service charge; any
additional tipping is usually up to the visitor-- generally small change but no
more than 5 percent. When service is not included in the restaurant bill, as is
usually the case in Britain, a tip of 10 percent to 15 percent is customary.
Taxi drivers are usually tipped 10 percent to 15 percent. A tip of at least $1
is suggested per bag for porters and bellmen, for a doorman hailing a taxi, per
night for the maid, for the parking attendant, for the cloakroom attendant and
per day for the tour guide or the driver.

-- European Travel Commission

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It was wild boar season and Trattoria Bar Sciame had prepared it in
three styles for the mid-day meal, prompting customers to wait in line to dine
at the nine-table restaurant in Montalcino. // Wine merchant Federico Pazzaglia
holds a bottle of wine made in the Montalcino region. He specializes in the
Brunello wines made in the area surrounding the town. // The walled Tuscan town
of Montalcino overlooks the surrounding valleys where vineyards produce the
Sangiovese grapes used to make the region's famed Brunello wines. // The rolling
hills of Tuscany are home to the vineyards that produce some of Italy's best
wines. // Early morning sun shines on one of the main buildings at Fattoria di
Felsina, one of the top wineries in the Chianti region of Tuscany.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               56 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 23, 2001, Friday

LETTERS

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1174 words


Mabry plan not feasible

I do not comprehend state Rep. Robert Junell's plan to relieve downtown Austin's
traffic congestion ("Mabry offered as part of swap," March 17).  Does he expect
the vacated state office buildings to remain empty? Private business will want
to occupy the empty space. There goes that traffic solution.

Does he believe that the City of Austin would spend the money to plan, develop
and maintain a 375-acre park?

Moving the state building complex to U.S 71 will burden that crowded route.
Moving the Texas National Guard to Camp Swift will impose a travel burden on
Camp Mabry personnel.

Camp Mabry is a very convenient location for thousands of Austinites who use the
running track there. Camp Mabry is well located for the thousands of military
retirees and veterans living in and around Austin.

I do not see any benefits in Junell's proposal.

WALTER H. BURKE

Austin

Costly downtown space

Office space subleases require a lot of "peeling of the onion." Layers not
peeled in the March 19 Tech Monday story, "A Growing Phenomenon," include:

* Of the nine rental rates quoted, seven need to have another $10 per foot added
to cover operating costs.

* The security deposits required of startups have become monstrous, such as $40
per foot up front.

* The remaining term on most spaces in the story is four to five years,
exceedingly too long for most startups.

* Sublease space, always designed for someone else, is rarely easily divisible.
Most of the spaces listed require taking a minimum of 16,000 square feet to
22,000 square feet.

The Austin market continues to be tight, and the perception that space is easily
and affordably available for startups is about as accurate as saying there is
available and affordable parking downtown.

DON COX

Austin

Unacceptable law

I am appalled by the lack of commentary by the American-Statesman on the recent
court decision to uphold the state's anti-gay "sodomy law."

That gay people are still regarded as criminals under the state penal code is
unacceptable. If this decision had been handed down against any other group of
people, the newspaper surely would have editorialized against it.

It is unbelievable that gays are still being arrested for having sex in their
own homes. How does the American-Statesman feel about this?

JIM CARUTH

Austin

A plant nutrient

Contrary to the March 15 editorial, "About-face is a slap in face for
environment," I am pleased that President Bush wants to hold off on carbon
dioxide while addressing true pollutants. Carbon dioxide is not a pollutant but
a plant nutrient. Higher levels increase vegetation, which serves as a carbon
dioxide "sink."

It is extraordinarily difficult to separate effects of "greenhouse gases" from
natural fluctuations.  It is thus not surprising that the scientific community
is split on whether any global warming is attributable to human causes. More
than 17,000 scientists who signed a petition in opposition of the Kyoto treaty
do not believe so.

We ought not to succumb to the panic of radical environmentalists, but promote
good science before we burden our economy, pay carbon taxes and high utility
bills.

CARL E. SCHLAEPFER

Austin

Make career feasible

Lt. Gov. Bill Ratliff says that he supports teacher health insurance but that it
isn't feasible ("Increase in costs tightens budget," March 20). A gifted college
graduate's decision to teach is not feasible. Veteran teachers who choose to
stay in the classroom are not making feasible decisions either.

Until government leaders truly commit to "putting their money where their mouths
are," Texas will continue to be plagued by teacher shortages that will only
increase exponentially in the years to come.

I have taught for 17 years. I make $39,900 a year. I pay $316.82 a month to
insure my children and myself. Luckily, my district contributes $170 toward that
amount. My goal is to stay in the classroom for many more years.

I would be grateful if Texas lawmakers would make that goal more feasible for me
and thousands of others.

PENNY BLAIR

Georgetown

Safe havens not answer

I don't think dropping off a newborn baby at a hospital or fire department is a
very good safe haven ("Safe havens: Finding alternatives to abandoning babies,"
March 20). Why are women not more informed about adoption?

Pregnant women have the ability to pick up the phone and tell an adoption agency
to find parents for her unborn baby. It's that simple. (I've been through it
myself.)

Instead of allowing women to drop their babies off somewhere, we should
encourage them to contact an adoption agency. There are thousands of people
waiting for American babies. This proposal is just another way for women who are
too lazy or irresponsible to deal with their own actions to get an easy way out.

America needs to educate more people about the simple and loving options of
adoption. The first few minutes of life are the most important. We have to think
about our children.

KIMBERLY WRIGHT

Austin

Strong support for bill

I was very much disappointed in the coverage in the Austin American-Statesman of
the hearing on Rep. Harold Dutton's bill calling for a moratorium on executions
for two years while the state conducts a study of the Texas capital punishment
system ("Groups object to death penalty," March 20).

Chairman Steven Wolens of the State Affairs Committee announced that apparently
24 people had signed up to testify in favor of the bill with one person opposed.
Proponents included Randall Dale Adams, released from Texas death row within 72
hours of his scheduled execution after spending 12 years in prison for a crime
he did not commit.

The article listed only the mother of a murder victim who did indeed speak
movingly against the death penalty. Overwhelmingly, the view of those testifying
was in favor of the bill. The Calendar Committee should schedule it for a
hearing by the full House.

MARJORIE LOEHLIN

Austin

Support finance reform

The elections in 2000 hit record spending levels with Democrats and Republicans
spent nearly equal amounts of soft money.

More and more, the country is governed by special-interest groups. These groups
often are opposed to the interests of ordinary citizens. Automobile safety, food
safety and patient privacy are opposed by special-interest groups. Whatever
their agenda, special-interest groups have power and access to government that
ordinary citizens lack.

In order to make government responsive to the people, we need to take the big
money out of elections. The best hope for a starting place right now would be to
pass the campaign finance reform bill.

Special-interest groups are working hard to defeat campaign finance reform.
Unless the public joins the fight, campaigns will continue to owe more to big
money than to true democracy.

KAREN BIRKNER

Pflugerville

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jim Caruth

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               59 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 30, 2001, Friday

600 more lose jobs as Multek closes shop; Multilayer Technology

BYLINE: Jerry Mahoney, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 663 words


Multilayer Technology Inc. dropped the other shoe in Austin on Thursday,
disclosing plans to close its Northwest Austin plant and shed another 600
workers.

The printed-circuit-board maker surprised Central Texas in January when it cut
600 jobs, blaming rapidly deteriorating business conditions. That was the first
large layoff this year by local companies, which have cut nearly 6,000 permanent
jobs.

Most Multek workers were dismissed without warning Thursday, but a small number
will remain on the job while the plant completes work on existing contracts. In
a brief letter to city and state offices, the company used language identical to
its Jan. 19 letter, saying the short notice was forced by "the sudden change in
economic conditions resulting in customer demand for lower-cost products" than
the Austin plant makes.

Those may be code words for transferring work to overseas facilities, where
operating costs are lower than in the United States. Executives at Multek did
not return phone calls Thursday. The company has U.S. plants in Irvine, Calif.,
and Roseville, Minn. It operates three plants in China, and one each in Hong
Kong, Brazil and Germany.

"They're probably shifting to off-shore facilities," said industry analyst Walt
Custer, president of Custer Consulting Group in The Sea Ranch, Calif.

Multek supplies circuit boards to manufacturers of mobile phones and other
electronic products. Major customers include Cisco Systems Inc., Hewlett-Packard
Co., Lucent Technologies Inc., Motorola Inc., Nokia Corp.  and Palm Inc. All of
these companies have been in the news recently, warning of layoffs and
disappointing earnings.

Multek's owner, Flextronics International Ltd., is the world's second-largest
contract electronics manufacturer after Solectron Corp., and also is a customer
of Multek. With 150 factories in 27 countries, Flextronics designs and assembles
products for many of the same companies that Multek supplies. Flextronics, which
is based in Singapore but has most of its executives in San Jose, has not warned
Wall Street of lower-than-expected earnings this year.

But competitors, including Solectron, have. Solectron laid off 100 workers at
its Austin facility as part of a global cutback, and indicated it would shift
more work to lower-cost plants in Asia.

Circuit boards, which have become nearly as ubiquitous as computer chips, were a
$40 billion industry last year. The industry grew by 18 percent in the United
States, based on soaring sales of PCs, cellphones and other electronics
products. But those sales fooled manufacturers into buying more circuit boards
than they needed, and they're paying the price in this year's technology
downturn, said Custer.

"Some of that growth was phony, because people were inventory-building," he
said.

The response was dramatic and rapid, once sales slowed. Orders for printed
circuit boards fell 43 percent from a year earlier in February, Custer said:
"Everybody got caught with their pants down."

Multek was upgrading the clean rooms in its Austin plant last fall, said Bob
Dehm, general manager of a rival circuit-board plant in Taylor.

Dehm and other executives of Grande Industries Ltd., which is based in Hibbing,
Minn., toured the facility in October.

"They were making investments over there," said Dehm, who has interviewed some
former Multek employees for positions at his plant.

Moe Kamali, an inventory worker laid off by Multek in January, said the company
was shipping 200,000 boards a month late last year. When he left, shipments had
fallen 25 percent.

In February, Multek ended talks with another company about purchasing a small
board-related facility in Arizona.

You may contact Jerry Mahoney at jmahoney@statesman.com or (512) 445-3642.

(FROM BOX)

LayoffsIn Central Texas this year:

* At high-tech companies: 4,816

* Other companies: 916

Source: AA-S research

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               60 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 30, 2001, Friday

Bush steps up pressure on Arafat

BYLINE: Bob Deans, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 836 words


WASHINGTON -- With Mideast bloodshed threatening to explode into broader
conflict, President Bush urged Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on Thursday to
speak out against street violence, arrest perpetrators and help Israeli security
forces head off terrorist attacks before they occur.

Bush made his remarks during a press conference he called hours after Arafat
pledged to continue with a 6-month-old Palestinian uprising that has left nearly
450 people dead and hundreds more wounded, most of them Palestinian.

Bush also pressed Israel to exercise military restraint and to ease up on border
checkpoints and road closings that have hampered Palestinians' movement. The
Bush administration has become increasingly frustrated with Arafat's failure to
rein in his supporters and has begun publicly to blame him, far more than it
does Israel, for the violence. U.S. officials do not believe Arafat can end all
the attacks, but they argue that a public Arafat appeal to his followers would
go far toward calming the situation.

"The signal I'm sending to the Palestinians is, 'Stop the violence,' " said
Bush, shortly before Secretary of State Colin Powell conveyed that message
directly to Arafat by telephone.

"I can't make it any more clear. And I hope that Chairman Arafat hears it loud
and clear," Bush said. Powell placed a call to Arafat, urging him to address the
Palestinian people -- in English and in their native Arabic -- to call for an
end to the uprising that began in September.

The tough talk from the Bush administration represents a new level of Middle
East involvement for a president who had jettisoned the peace proposals of his
predecessor and indicated repeatedly that he would take a less interventionist
approach.

In a busy day of foreign policy, Bush clashed politely with German Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder over the 1997 Kyoto climate change treaty and over national
missile defense, a Bush initiative being viewed with skepticism by Germany and
the rest of Europe.

"We agree on many, many issues; there's a few we didn't agree on," Bush told
reporters during an Oval Office photo session with Schroeder. "But, as good
friends, we can disagree and, yet, still be friends."

Schroeder is not on board, for instance, with a Bush plan to develop the
proposed system intended to track and destroy ballistic missiles that might
target the United States.

Bush has said he would consider broadening missile protection to include such
U.S. allies as Germany and other members of the NATO security alliance.

Schroeder suggested, though, that there are more questions than answers about
the initiative, which critics fear could trigger a global strategic arms race.

"Is it technologically feasible? Can we truly implement it? Who is going to be
covered under the shelter? . . . What are going to be repercussions for the
global disarmament process? What are going to be the repercussions on Russia and
on China, for example?" Schroeder said to reporters as Bush sat at his side.

The two men were at odds, also, over the Kyoto accord. It has come under threat
this week by revelations that the White House is looking to hammer out a new
approach to the problem of so-called greenhouse gas emissions, which scientists
believe are contributing to global warming.

"We'll be working with Germany; we'll be working with our allies to reduce
greenhouse gases," Bush said. "But I will not accept a plan that will harm our
economy and hurt American workers."

Bush has said he will not support the accord, negotiated in the Japanese city of
Kyoto, under which former President Clinton pledged that the United States would
cut its emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases to below 1990
levels by 2012.

Bush, reversing a campaign pledge, said earlier this month that he would not
impose new limits on emissions of carbon dioxide, or CO2, released in especially
large quantities by power plants and factories that burn coal and heavy fuel
oil.

"Circumstances have changed since the campaign. We're now in an energy crisis,"
Bush said. "That's why I decided to not have mandatory caps on CO2, because in
order to meet those caps, our nation would have had to have had a lot of natural
gas immediately flow into the system, which is impossible. We don't have the
infrastructure able to move natural gas."

Natural gas is a cleaner fuel than coal or oil.

Bush also acknowledged that resistance is stiff to his plan to open the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge for oil drilling. "There are other areas in the United
States on which we can find natural gas," he said.

On another environmental issue, Bush said he will pursue some reduction in the
amount of arsenic allowed in drinking water but not before more scientific
studies on where the level should be set.

He was criticized for withdrawing new arsenic regulations issued in the final
days of the Clinton administration.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bush aides say the president has brought a less formal style to news
briefings.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               61 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 27, 2001, Friday

LETTERS

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 991 words


Hate should not count in the sentencing for criminal acts.  Most crimes against
people are motivated by at least callous disregard for others' personal rights.
The April 18 editorial "Byrd's legacy" wrongly states that " U.S. criminal
jurisprudence has long considered what an accused criminal thought or felt . .
.," using premeditation as an example.  It has considered the fact of
premeditation, but not the detail of the premeditation. Once someone decides to
do a crime, what difference does the reasoning make?

Premeditation can be proven in a number of ways. To prove a crime to be
hate-based, you are either going to have to be a mind reader or hire a credible
one as an expert witness.

"Hate crime" laws violate the principle of equal protection. Under the proposed
law, members of some groups become more protected than non-members. I find that
hateful and discriminatory.

MIKE BROWN

Austin

A poor fit

It is remarkable that the issues concerning the environment went almost
unanswered for nearly eight years from the previous administration.  Now,
President Bush is accused of playing politics with environmental issues by
letting the lead emissions rule stand ("Bush will keep rule on lead emissions,"
April 18). The question is when do we give the new administration time to review
all of the executive orders made within hours of the previous administration
leaving town?

I believe in conserving and protecting our resources, but the environmentalists
need to get farther away from the trees to see the forest. We need to achieve a
working balance between industries and the environment. To accomplish one of the
objectives of the Kyoto accord, the United States would need to curtail its oil
and gas consumption to 1975 levels. This is like fitting a big waist into a
smaller dress size; it will not look pretty.

VANCE BRADFORD

Giddings

The overlooked soul

Cloning of humans is almost a reality, but one important subject keeps being
overlooked. A cloned human being won't have a soul, the all important ingredient
in the mix. Each of us has a soul, something no scientist can or ever will be
able to give us. Without a soul, humans would be automatons.  Our individualized
soul is the source of our intelligence, feeling, awareness, uniqueness.

Animal clones, lacking a spiritual spark, are nothing more than DNA replicas.
All animal experiments have been abysmal failures. Will humans fare any better?

RON LOWE

Harlingen

Scouting's benefits

Kudos for publishing the April 18 letter "Innovative Scouting." It's good to
hear something positive about Scouting while the Boy Scouts continue to fend off
attacks because they insist on the right to determine who will be their
volunteer leaders.

As a 50-year veteran Scout, I am proud of the role Scouting plays in the lives
of young men, teaching them the values that strengthen them as our future
leaders. Line up the young men for me to hire, and I will select the Eagle Scout
every time.

EDWIN F. SMITH

Austin

Waning democracy

In the 1850s, 2.2 percent of the Texans owned 32.2 percent of the wealth and
profoundly influenced political life at all levels. Two historians concluded
that the society was essentially an aristocracy in the trappings of democracy.
(Campbell and Lowe, "Wealth and Power in Antebellum Texas," 1977)

Today, 1 percent of the populace owns 40 percent of the wealth, and we are the
democracy with the lowest rate of political participation.

Should President Bush get his tax cut and the American-Statesman editorial board
its abolishment of the estate tax, our state will see even greater
concentrations of wealth and even less evidence of true democracy.

JERRY BUTTREY

Austin

Boycott China

When will Americans open their eyes and see their enemy, which has its foot in
the door? China is our enemy, yet we are the largest supporter of their
government.

Think of what would happen if there were no more China-made products on American
soil. We have become dependent upon our enemy to supply us with the products we
use. As a result, we as American consumers are paying the China government
billions of dollars a year to help them achieve their goal of destroying us

Our greed for cheap products has caused the loss of American jobs and has opened
the door for our destructors. We must boycott China now!

HUGH PRIFOGLE

Round Rock

hprifogle@yahoo.com

No controversy

So Johnny Hart's Easter Sunday comic strip was "controversial"?

It shows Jewish symbolism evolving into Christian symbolism. That implies a
tight relationship between the two religions, right? So let's look at some
facts:

* Christianity was originally considered to be a Jewish "sect."

* The Christian "God the Father" is the God of Israel.

* The Christian "God the Son" was a Jewish rabbi.

I interpret Hart's strip as a message of brotherhood between Christians and
Jews, and a reminder to Christians about their religious heritage.

Certain members of the press consider such a message "controversial." Why? If
they just want to sell papers, that's pure sleaze. Or do they really want to put
an opposite spin on it to stir up animosity between the religions? If so, that's
simply despicable.

CHARLES CREE

Austin

CMNCree@cs.com

Rude awakening

Who runs this city? It must be the independent garbage collectors. They tell our
police, solid waste department and mayor's office that they have to pick up the
downtown garbage at any hour of the night or early morning for safety reasons. I
am awakened regularly between 1:30 and 3 a.m. by garbage being picked up on
Willow Court.

The best the mayor's office can do is to get the pickup rescheduled to 4 or 5
a.m.

Everyone who wants garbage pick-up in their area at unreasonable hours should be
sure to vote.

LELA HALL

Austin

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vance Bradford//Texas Sen. Rodney Ellis, left, and Rep. Senfronia
Thompson, D-Houston, held a news conference Monday on hate crimes legislation.
Thompson's bill passed the House on Monday, and Ellis is sponsoring a similar
bill in the Senate.Hate crimes bill unnecessary

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman


                               62 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 18, 2001, Wednesday

At G-8 summit, Bush aimsto push plan against poverty
He wants to give poorer nations grants rather than loans

BYLINE: Bob Deans American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 548 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush leaves today for a weeklong European trip during
which he is expected to urge the annual summit of leaders from the world's
wealthiest democratic nations to support more grants, rather than loans, to the
world's poorest countries.

On the eve of his trip, Bush launched a strike against thousands of protesters
awaiting his arrival, accusing them of wanting to "shut down free trade" and
deny its benefits to the poor.

Bush said that he hopes to make poverty reduction a central theme of this year's
Group of Eight, or G-8, summit in Italy. He called on the World Bank and other
international institutions to shift from lending to giving in order to help poor
countries without crippling them with debt they can't repay.

"I propose that up to 50 percent of the funds provided by the development banks
to the poorest countries be provided as grants for education, health, nutrition,
water supply, sanitation and other human needs," Bush said in a speech before
several hundred World Bank employees.

Bush hopes to win support for that concept this weekend when he meets with his
G-8 counterparts from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia.
Bush has met each of the G-8 leaders before, but this will be his first
appearance at the summit.

Summit organizers are braced for up to 100,000 anti-global trade demonstrators
expected to descend upon the coastal city. Construction crews have worked
overtime to erect concrete barriers and 30-foot-tall steel grates to try to
separate summit participants from protests. Some 16,000 Italian riot police will
be deployed, armed with tear gas and water cannons.

Similar protests have disrupted recent global economic summits, including a
world trade meeting in Seattle two years ago.

The protesters allege that the United States and other wealthy industrialized
countries unfairly dictate the terms of global commerce. Under the terms of
globalization, critics say, powerful multinational corporations have been
allowed to run roughshod over low-wage workers and the environment in poor
countries.

Tuesday, Bush said increased global trade offers a ticket out of poverty for
hundreds of millions of people if the wheels of commerce are allowed to turn
freely.

"What some call globalization is in fact the triumph of human liberty stretching
across national borders," said Bush. "It holds the promise of delivering
billions of the world's citizens from disease and hunger and want."

Bush said the demonstrators want to undermine those hopes. "They seek to shut
down meetings because they want to shut down free trade."

Bush traveled to five European countries in June, encountering resistance from
European leaders who disagree with his rejection of the Kyoto accord on global
warming and his pursuit of a missile defense system.

Those issues remain on the table. His first stop is Britain, where he will visit
with Prime Minister Tony Blair at his residence outside of London, and with
Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace. He then travels to Genoa.

At the close of the summit, Bush will meet Sunday with Russian President
Vladimir Putin, the second of four planned meetings this year between the two
leaders.

You may contact Bob Deans at bobdeans@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               64 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 29, 2001, Sunday

Gay teens gather in Austin to talk, learn
Weekend workshops strive to help youths deal with sexuality issues

BYLINE: Robert W. Gee, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 927 words


Alice is gay. She said she knew so last year, when she was 13.

First, she told only her close friends. Then Alice told her eighth-grade
classmates. In March, she told her parents, then her brother and sister, and now
everyone knows. Alice is gay.

"It wasn't a big deal," she said. "It was like, 'Oh, you're gay. Let's keep
going.' "

Alice, whose mother asked that her last name not be used for fear of harassment,
is one of a growing number of youths in Austin and across the country who are
openly embracing their homosexuality at the dawn of their teen-age years.

This weekend, more than 100 teens who are gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender
-- a category that includes female impersonators, cross-dressers and
transsexuals, who often have had sex change operations -- are congregating on
the University of Texas campus for a regional conference to discuss issues
ranging from mental and physical health to political activism.

It is the first such event to be held in Austin, according to the organizers
from Out Youth, an 11-year-old Austin nonprofit organization.

"It's actually pretty exciting to see so many people free to be themselves
without fear of being rejected or degraded because of who you are," Samuel
Amezaga, 19, of El Paso said Saturday between workshops. Much of the discussion
focused on how to promote acceptance of gays in schools and elsewhere, he said.

"That's the main focus, to try to expand the idea to let society know that we do
exist, that we're human beings," said Amezaga, who came to the conference with
two other gay teens from El Paso. "We're your grocery stockers; we're your CEOs;
we're everywhere."

They are also wide-eyed teen-agers with shy smiles and fresh stories about how
they confronted their suspicions that they could be different and discovered
their homosexuality.

"I think it was intriguing to a lot of people that I could be so conscious of
who I am," Alice said.

Only one student at school picked on her after she came out, she said. So far,
she said, she has been successful in casting herself as the girl who happens to
be gay, not the girl who is defined as gay.

Many gay and lesbian youths, who now see themselves on television and in music,
are suddenly finding it easier to be gay.

A generation ago, this weekend's gathering would have been hard to imagine. In
the 1970s and early '80s, gays came out of the closet on average between ages 19
and 23. Today, the average is 14 to 16, according to Caitlin Ryan, director of
policy studies at the Institute on Sexuality, Inequality and Health at San
Francisco State University and co-author of "Lesbian and Gay Youth: Care and
Counseling."

Some are even younger. Out Youth, a support center for gay teens founded in
1990, recently started counseling a 12-year-old girl who says she is a lesbian.

"Until you have enough support, and for a lot of people, until you have a
community, it's difficult to come out," said Gail Goodman, executive director of
Out Youth. She came out seven years ago, when she was 35, after marriage and
years of trying to convince herself that she was straight, she said. For a long
time, she didn't know any lesbians.

Young gays today find other gays in places such as Out Youth, in Internet chat
rooms and in pop culture.

Four years after Ellen DeGeneres made television history when she came out on
her show, "Ellen," there were 35 gay or lesbian characters on network
television, including nine in leading roles, in the 2000-01 season, according to
the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation.

"I think the world, or at least a lot of the world, has changed so much in 10
years," said Richard Mann, program director at Out Youth.

But not everyone is embracing the trend.

"It's popular. It's very popular to be gay," said Nancy Brown, co-director of
LifeGuard Ministries in Georgetown, which believes that homosexuality is a
choice and counsels homosexuals trying to become straight. "When you start
talking about kids as young as 12, most of them are very confused about sexual
attraction. Are these people making these choices based on deep feelings, or is
this the latest fad?"

Alice's mother, however, is convinced that her daughter's homosexuality is not a
phase.

"I was pleased that she did (come out)," her mother said. "It's always much
easier being who you are."

But for many teens, coming out is a Catch-22, said Ryan, the San Francisco State
University researcher.

"It is quite healthy to come out and explore your identity," she said, "(but)
students are still being brutalized in schools."

Although Alice said she hasn't been treated differently in her Austin school,
others aren't so fortunate.

Eric Tracy, 19, who graduated this year from Dripping Springs High School, said
he was teased and called names several times a day. Students scrawled slurs in
shoe polish on his car, he said.

"You're made to feel that you're wrong, in some cases evil," he said.

In a survey of 2,800 A and B students last year, Who's Who Among American High
School Students found that 40 percent were prejudiced against gays, while 8
percent were prejudiced against African Americans, 5 percent against Jews and 4
percent against Caucasians.

Still, advocates and researchers say the climate for gays is improving, if more
slowly in some places than others.

"Twenty years ago," Alice said, "even if a woman was gay, they wouldn't think
about it when they were 14 because it would be too weird."

You may contact Robert W. Gee at bgee@statesman.com or (512) 445-3643.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Samuel Amezaga: El Paso teen says it's exciting to see so many of his
peers unafraid of being themselves.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               66 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 4, 2001, Saturday

Metro & State Roundup

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1371 words


* CENTRAL TEXAS

Another Ozone Action Day

AUSTIN -- The Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission has declared a
second consecutive Ozone Action Day for the Austin area, meaning conditions
should be ideal today for the formation of high levels of the lung-damaging
pollutant. On Friday, the fourth Ozone Action Day of the 2001 season, ozone did
not exceed the level deemed unhealthy.

LBJ phone tapes on TV

AUSTIN -- Starting Monday at 10 p.m., C-Span3, on Time Warner Cable's digital
channel 122, will air two-hour segments of former President Lyndon Johnson's
recorded telephone conversations. The segments will run every Monday, with
repeats running on Thursdays and Saturdays at 10 p.m.

The recordings include conversations between Johnson and his wife, Lady Bird
Johnson; former President Eisenhower; top officials in his administration; and
other leading figures of the day. They were recorded between November 1963 and
August 1964.

Though Johnson knew he was being recorded, his listeners did not. And Johnson
seemed to forget he was recording himself, as he at times spoke candidly about
his fears, as well as his plans.

* AROUND TEXAS

SeaWorld killer whale dies

SAN ANTONIO -- The oldest of SeaWorld San Antonio's five killer whales died this
week, leaving park marine biologists baffled as to what killed her. SeaWorld
staff performed a necropsy on Haida (pronounced hide-uh) on Thursday but do not
expect to know a cause of death for at least a month.

"This was very unexpected," park spokesman Bob McCullough said. "She showed some
change in behavior but nothing to suggest she was seriously ill."

Animal rights activists have long sought a ban on using orcas in marine parks,
saying that confinement causes psychological, physical and developmental
problems that shorten the lives of the mammals.

Marine park officials say captivity has not been proved harmful and can protect
the whales from disease, predators, pollution and fishing nets.

Haida was estimated at about 21 years old. She was captured in 1980 and lived at
a Canadian marine park before being moved to San Antonio in 1993.

McCullough said the normal life span for a killer whale is 25 to 35 years.

Ex-airman faces bomb charges

SAN ANTONIO -- A former airman has been charged with delivering a package bomb
addressed to his one-time first sergeant at Lackland Air Force Base, who lost a
hand when it exploded.

Brandon L. Walters, discharged from the Air Force in June, was held Friday on
bomb-related charges, the most severe of which carries a minimum penalty of 30
years in prison and a maximum of life.

Walters had served in the same 344th Squadron as the sergeant. Besides losing a
hand, she lost three fingers on her other hand and suffered an eye injury. She
remained in serious but stable condition on Friday.

Authorities said Walters and the victim had no personal relationship. "This was
not a lovers' quarrel or anything to that effect," a federal agent said.

Gag order upheld in drowning case

HOUSTON -- A request to lift a gag order in Andrea Yates' capital murder case
has been denied by the 14th Court of Appeals.

The ban restricting lawyers, police and witnesses in the case of the Clear Lake
woman accused of drowning her five children in a bathtub does not infringe on
the First Amendment freedom of the press, the court ruled Thursday. The media
has a right to attend and report on a trial but not much more, the court ruled.
The Houston Chronicle filed the request.

When imposing the gag order June 26, state District Judge Belinda Hill said
public comments about the case would increase publicity and could taint the jury
pool before Yates' trial. Hill explained in her order that no less restrictive
means exist in dealing with the possibility of threat to the judicial process.

Jury named to pick memorial design

COLLEGE STATION -- One of the designers of the Oklahoma City bombing memorial is
among nine jurors who will choose the design of a tribute to the 12 Aggies
killed and 27 injured in the November 1999 Texas A&M University bonfire
collapse.

The designer is Hans-Ekkehard Butzer, a member of the team whose vision of the
Oklahoma City bombing memorial was selected from 624 submitted in international
competition.

J. Malon Southerland, the university's vice president for student affairs,
announced the names of the nine jurors Thursday. That list includes architect
Richard West, whose son, Nathan Scott West, was among the Aggies killed in the
collapse.

Other jurors include Schuyler Houser of Thibodeaux, La., A&M's student body
president; Stephen Daly, a sculptor and professor of art and art history at the
University of Texas; and Murray Milford of Bryan, a 1955 A&M graduate and a
retired professor of soil and crop sciences.

Gun rights for tow drivers proposed

HOUSTON -- If a City Council member has his way, tow truck drivers will be
allowed to pack guns along with the chains and jacks on their wreckers.

Council Member Rob Todd says a municipal ordinance banning wrecker drivers from
toting concealed weapons on the job needs be changed to conform with state law.

Todd said the 20-year-old ordinance was adopted amid concerns that gun-toting
wrecker drivers presented a poor public image. But state law now allows Texans
to carry concealed firearms if they pass required background checks and a test.
It's not fair that wrecker drivers don't have the same right, Todd said.

Lake contaminated with E. coli

EL PASO -- Test results have confirmed the presence of E. coli, as well as
bacteria linked to cholera, in a 44-acre recreational lake in West Texas. The
test results from water samples taken from Ascarte Lake in El Paso were
confirmed Thursday, said Jorge Magana, director of the El Paso City-County
Health and Environmental District.

Cholera can easily be treated if diagnosed early. Cholera and E. coli can cause
severe diarrhea and vomiting, resulting in dehydration and possibly death.

The lake just north of the Rio Grande was closed by county officials Tuesday,
five days after a worker at Ascarte Park found dead ducks in the lake. A nearby
pond was tested and closed Thursday.

Cleanup efforts are under way.

Guard soldiers head to Bosnia

WESLACO -- After a year of training that for some included a first experience of
driving on snow, 74 National Guard members are to begin a deployment in Bosnia.

Following a morning Mass and a ceremony at Weslaco High School today, the troops
will board a chartered civilian aircraft for their trip.

Training for the mission included snow driving practice in Humvees at Fort Drum
in northern New York. "Some of these individuals had never seen snow," Lt. Col.
Robert Luna said.

The Guard troops will be carrying out a peacekeeping mission, Luna said. As the
political climate cools, the National Guard is assuming duties formerly carried
out by full-time Army units.

4 burned in mobile home explosion

COTULLA -- A blast that destroyed a South Texas mobile home has left at least
four people with extensive burns. A propane leak was the likely cause of the
explosion Thursday, officials said. Victims were taken to the Blocker Burn Unit
at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston and Shriners Burns
Hospital in Galveston.

Man surrenders in double slaying

McALLEN -- A suspect in the death of a man and his baby has surrendered. Jorge
Salinas, 17, called police Friday and told them he could be picked up at a
convenience store in the Mission area, Hidalgo County sheriff's spokeswoman
Priscilla Lopez said.

Police already had warrants for Salinas, his 21-year-old brother Lorenzo and a
third person who hasn't been publicly identified. They are still looking for
Lorenzo Salinas and the unidentified suspect.

Both Salinas brothers face capital murder charges. Police believe they killed
20-year-old Geronimo Morales and 21-month-old Leslie Ann Morales while
carjacking Morales' 2001 Chevrolet Malibu. Border Patrol agents found the girl
dead in her car seat Sunday night at a park near the Rio Grande. Agents said the
victim was strapped in the seat and hidden in some brush. Police believe the
toddler was alive when she was abandoned.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Better not miss a spot -- Big Brother is watching: As he tended the
grounds of the Institute of Texan Cultures in San Antonio on Friday, Francisco
Almansa was under some pretty watchful eyes. The giant eyes were part of an ad
for a museum exhibit., Brandon L. Walters // Andrea Yates

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               68 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 2, 2001, Sunday

Downtown Austin rolls with the punches
Economic beating stalls some construction, but can't stop developers' momentum

BYLINE: Michelle Breyer, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 2944 words


Downtown Austin is a study in contrasts.

The curved roof of Carr- America Realty Corp.'s office building towers 23
stories above Sixth Street. Workers are installing windows, getting ready for
the first tenants to move in during the Christmas holidays. Nearby, the Plaza
Lofts rises skyward at West Fifth and Guadalupe streets. New restaurants are
already in business on Second Street in the shadow of the huge Austin Convention
Center expansion project.

But on the west side of downtown, a chain-link fence surrounds the concrete
carcass of Intel Corp.'s design center, where work has been suspended since
March. Construction has yet to begin on the rocky field at West Sixth Street and
Lamar Boulevard, as turmoil in the movie theater industry has further delayed
the start of a shopping center-office-entertainment development that has been
nine years in the making. Several other projects are hovering in a holding
pattern, awaiting signs that the stalled economy has picked up steam.

During the past two years, "Downtown clearly has undergone a major
transformation," said Jeff Pace, managing director of Carr- America's Austin
office. "I think that we're on the verge of a real renaissance, although it
might be stalled temporarily because of the uncertain economic climate. Large
urban projects are more complicated, more expensive than other projects. . . .
We've been fortunate with the progress we've made so far."

All things considered, downtown Austin has fared pretty well this year despite
an economic slowdown that has flattened many parts of the regional economy.

Many of the biggest projects in the pipeline have made the big jump from
artist's rendering to reality. Developers took full advantage of supportive city
leadership and the high-tech boom of the past four years, creating momentum that
has defied the recent slowdown, said Charlie Betts, executive director of the
Downtown Austin Alliance, an association of property owners.

Major public projects, such as the Austin Convention Center expansion and the
ambitious transformation of Palmer Auditorium and the old City Coliseum into
contemporary performing arts and events centers, have helped cushion the impact
of the slowdown.

"The cranes aren't going away," Betts said.

Downtown, once a residential wasteland, has added hundreds of apartment and
condominium units, with another 2,000 planned or under construction. Nine major
projects are under way, with possible expansions already being discussed for
some of them.

New restaurants, such as P.F. Chang's, Eddie V's Edgewater Grill and Kenichi,
have taken the place of empty buildings and weed-strewn lots, attracting crowds
at lunch and dinner. Downtown also is getting more hotel rooms, with
construction beginning on the Hilton Hotel at the convention center and the
nearby Hampton Inn and Suites.

Downtown's tax base has soared from $965.5 million in 1997 to $1.8 billion in
2001 -- an increase of 88 percent.

"We get as many serious calls as we've ever gotten," said Robert Knight,
president of Knight Real Estate Corp., which owns four blocks near the
convention center with developer Perry Lorenz.

That's not to say times have been easy.

The market turnaround was sudden and jolting, forcing some developers to shelve
their plans and others to rethink them.

Just ask the folks at one of downtown's most high-profile and eagerly
anticipated projects. Earlier this year, the partners at Schlosser Development
Corp. said the Sixth+Lamar shopping center and office building would break
ground in April.

But upheaval in the movie theater industry threw a wrench into the plans, making
it more difficult to nail down one of the anchor tenants for the
430,000-square-foot shopping and entertainment center. At the same time, the
rising downtown office vacancy rate -- from 3 percent to 7.5 percent since
December -- has caused the developers to rethink the size of the
50,000-square-foot office building. Despite these unexpected hurdles, Brad
Schlosser said he's confident the project will break ground by the end of the
year. The retail market, he stressed, remains strong.

The 16-story Hampton Inn & Suites, under construction at San Jacinto Boulevard
and East Second Street, has endured three different downtown real estate markets
in the past year and a half, said Stanley Woelfel, vice president of development
for the Houston-based Valencia Group.

When Valencia Hotels Inc. was planning the 209-room hotel early last year, the
downtown market was strong. The office market was virtually full; tenants were
desperate for space. As the plans were being finalized, the market got even
stronger when Intel announced plans for a 10-story design center, followed by
Vignette Corp.'s announcement that it would build a headquarters complex on Town
Lake.

"Now we're in the third market," Woelfel said.

When you include sublease space, the downtown office vacancy rate is the highest
since the early 1990s, the fate of Intel's project is unknown, while Vignette
has abandoned its plans, and two luxury condo projects have postponed their
groundbreakings until next year.

But Woelfel isn't concerned. The hotel won't open until November 2002, and the
developer already has had inquiries from groups planning conventions through
2005.

"We're very confident in the long-term market for downtown Austin," he said.

Most developers are taking a long-range view. Big projects, such as office
towers and hotels, can take two or more years to build. Most developers are
convinced that the economy will turn around by then.

"If you try to guess short-term real estate cycles, you're never going to get it
right," Knight said. "Most of the people looking at doing hotels and
(apartments) don't see it as a flash in the pan."

Stuart Shaw, a principal with Bonner Carrington Corp., joked that his company
works in "Old Testament" time. Bonner Carrington has been working on apartments
and retail space with AMLI Residential Properties for several years.

The AMLI project, in the works since 1998, is part of a six-block project that
includes the Computer Science Corp. buildings, a new City Hall and two blocks of
apartments.

The apartment project needs a final ground lease with the city, which owns the
land, before work can continue, Shaw said. If all goes as planned, the companies
hope to start construction on the first 220-unit phase at Colorado and Second
streets at the beginning of next year, with the first residents moving in by
early 2004. The second phase would be completed a year later.

At the same time, Shaw said they're working on the Second Street District,
105,000 square feet of restaurants and shops for the ground floors of the CSC
buildings, the new City Hall and the AMLI apartment buildings.

"The country and the state are in a correction period," he said. "That will come
and go. Meanwhile, the retail market in Austin appears to be pretty good.
Everybody is hopeful and somewhat confident the economy will turn around."

In any case, he said, downtown needs more places to live and shop, and the two
sectors feed each other.

Post Properties delayed the start of the second phase of its apartment project
near the Seaholm Power Plant to late 2002. But not because it has doubts about
the market. The first phase of the project is 98 percent leased, said Kent
Collins, senior vice president of Post. He said the company wants to start work
on apartments in the Triangle project in North Austin.

"I do firmly believe that the fundamentals for downtown are here, and we've
created a good foundation for growth," Collins said. The two dozen or more
projects under way "will continue to bolster downtown's health and its place as
a vibrant center of the community.

"Do I wish the boom was still happening? Yes. But we still firmly believe in
downtown and Central Austin as a residential market."

On Congress Avenue, Atlanta-based Cousins Properties bought the 7.5-acre site at
Fourth Street and will start work on a 33-story office tower late this year --
the first such project on downtown's main street in 20 years.

Cousins has said it wants 90,000 square feet pre-leased before starting
construction.

"Prospects of breaking ground look good for this year," said Tim Hendricks,
senior vice president of Cousins Properties.

But some developers have taken a wait-and-see attitude. Houston-based Hines
Interests is in no hurry to move forward with its expansion of Bank of America
Center at Fifth Street and Congress Avenue. Hines plans to add a second,
26-story, 250,000-square-foot tower to the center at 515 Congress Ave., with
possible residential and retail projects in the future.

Hines got the needed zoning approvals this year but has no timetable for when
construction might begin, said project manager Carleton Riser.

"We wanted to put ourselves in a position to do redevelopment when it makes
sense," Riser said. "Obviously, the current conditions give everyone cause for
concern. But we still think Austin is a solid place to invest in the long term."

This cautious attitude is one of the things that differentiates this slowdown
from the bust of the 1980s. Back then, money was everywhere and developers could
get their buildings constructed without having tenants locked up. In 1984, there
were a dozen office buildings approved or under construction in downtown Austin.

A new downtown skyline seemed to emerge overnight -- from the tiers of One
American Center to the pyramid of 100 Congress. When the bust hit, the buildings
went begging for tenants.

"This development has been more market driven," Betts said.

These days, most developers won't start before they have tenants for about half
of the space. CarrAmerica's 300 W. Sixth St. office tower, for example, was
nearly half leased before it broke ground. Pace expects it to be 75 percent
leased by the time the first tenant, the Clark Thomas & Winters law firm, starts
moving in furniture and equipment at the end of the year.

Many think the market slowdown has been healthy.

"The real estate market in this city was way too hopped up, way past what could
be sustained," Schlosser said. "It was irrational exuberance. What's happened is
that people are getting back to reality."

Last year, companies couldn't find available space downtown, and rents were
increasing at a staggering pace.

"Affordability does become a consideration," Betts said. "Now 'negotiate' is a
verb that's being used again."

Austin also needed a breather to give the streets, power lines and other
infrastructure time to catch up with the frantic pace of development, Betts
said.

And it's not exactly like construction has screeched to a halt. To the contrary,
residents can look forward to snarled traffic, the grit of sawdust and the
pounding of hammers for at least the next few years as apartments, hotels,
stores, office buildings and other developments take shape across downtown.

Once some of the major projects get done -- the convention center expansion,
some of the new apartments "you're approaching critical mass," Knight said.
"We're likely to wake up and realize we have a real city on our hands. That will
be real refreshing."

You may contact R. Michelle Breyer at mbreyer@statesman.com or (512) 445-3641.
Staff writer Shonda Novak contributed to this report.

Residential projects

Your scorecard to downtown's biggest apartment and condo developments. for
commercial and public projects, see Page K3

1. AMLI Apartments

West Second and Colorado streets

Original plan: 220 apartments, with ground-floor restaurants and retail,
underground parking.

Status: Site work under way; construction to start in 2002, completion by early
2004. Phase two, two blocks west, would be about a year later.

2. Plaza Lofts

West Fifth and Guadalupe streets

Original plans: 55 luxury condos, priced $200,000 to $3 million-plus, in
14-story tower.

Status: Expanded to 60 units: aded rooftop pool; first tenants will move in by
end of the year; art gallery and restaurant on the ground floor.

3. Post West Phase II

801 W. Fifth St.

Original plans: 337-unit, three-building apartment complex.

Status: Groundbreaking expected by end of year. Phase I is 98 percent leased.

4. Austin City Lofts

800 W. Fifth St.

Original plan: 14-story condominium tower with units ranging from $270,000 to
$1.5 million, ground-floor retail.

Status: Ground broken in July.

5. 701 W. Fifth St.

Original plans: 139-unit apartment complex with a turn-of-the-century design.

Status: Construction to start in early 2002; first units available late 2002.

6. Nokonah condominiums

700 N. Lamar Blvd.

Original plans: 95-unit luxury condo; units from $200,000 to $2 million.

Status: Construction is under way; 75 units are sold; first tenants to arrive in
April.

7. Red River Flats

901 Red River St.

Original plans: 84-100 loft condos starting at 175,000; ground-floor retail.

Status: Construction to start in mid-2002.

8. Four Seasons Residences

Cesar Chavez and Trinity streets

Original plans: Construction on $100 million, 28-story luxury condo tower, with
units from $375,000 to $3 million, was to have started last year.

Status: May start late this year.

9. The Monarch

44054 Rainey St.

Original plans: $56 million, 8-story luxury condos were to have broken ground
last spring. Prices range from $240,000 to $3 million.

Status: Project was renamed from 54 Rainey Place and a new marketing campaign
was launched; no new groundbreaking date set.

10. Sand Beach development

Cesar Chavez Street and North Lamar Boulevard

Original plans: 150-160 condos with retail and office space.

Status: Finalizing zoning changes to allow one building as high as 180 feet;
construction could begin in mid-2002.

11. LaVista on Lavaca

1701 Lavaca St.

Original plans: 8-story tower with retail, office and 20 luxury condos, priced
$262,800 to $675,500.

Status: Construction to begin later this year; completion by early 2003.

Office/Commercial projects

A. Congress at Fourth

Original plans: 33-story office tower,

the first new high rise on

Congress Ave. in 20 years

Status: Expected to break ground next month, with late 2003 completion.

B. Bank of America

515 Congress Ave.

Original plans: Add a second, 26-story tower with 250,000 square feet and
additional retail and residential space.

Status: Rezoning completed; no timetable for construction start.

C. Computer Sciences Corp.

200 and 400 W. Cesar Chavez St.

Original plans: Three-building complex with up to 3,500 employees and
street-level retail.

Status: First building opened last month. Second one, two blocks west, to open
next year. CSC will occupy two floors and sublease the other three. Third
building on hold.

D. CarrAmerica Building

300. W. Sixth St.

Original plans: 23-story, 550,000 square foot office tower with street-level
retail.

Status: Building will open in January; on track to be 75 percent leased by end
of the year.

E. Hilton Hotel

Red River at Fifth Street.

Original plans: 29-story, 802-room hotel with penthouse apartments.

Status: Bonds were sold in June, an 18-month delay; construction has started,
and hotel should open in January 2004.

F. Hampton Inn and Suites

Second Street at San Jacinto.

Original plans: 16-story, 209-room hotel near the Austin Convention Center.

Status: Completion in late 2002.

G. Restaurant row

Second Street between Trinity and San Antonio.

Original plans: Block of restaurants to serve Austin Convention Center visitors.

Status: P.F. Chang's and Fleming's steakhouse are open; Roy's Restaurant is
under construction.

H. Sixth + Lamar

North Lamar between Fifth and Sixth streets.

Original plans: $100 million project announced nine years ago with 430,000
square feet of retail plus offices.

Status: Construction start set for late this year, pending a new theater tenant.
Office space has been reduced because of soft market.

I.  Intel Corp.

Fifth Street between Nueces and San Antonio.

Original plans: 10-story design center was to have opened in November.

Status: Construction on hold; company may indicate possible

direction late this year.

Public/cultural projects

J.  Austin City Hall

West Cesar Chavez between Lavaca and Guadalupe

Original plans: $46.7 million, 115,000-square-foot building by architect Antoine
Predock.

Status: Excavation underway; opening expected in February 2004.

K. Convention Center expansion

Red River at Fourth Street

Original plans: 470,000-square-foot expansion will include a ballroom and two
new exhibition halls.

Status: On track for spring 2002 opening.

L. Long Center for the Performing Arts

Barton Springs Road at South First Street.

Original plans: Renovated Palmer Auditorium will become three-stage Long Center;
the new Lester Palmer Events Center will handle meetings and exhibitions too
small for Austin Convention Center.

Status: Garage is heading toward completion late this year; new exhibit center
to be ready mid-2002; the Long Center is set to start work

in mid-2002.

M Austin Museum of Art

Third Street between Guadalupe and San Antonio.

Original plans: Groundbreaking had been set for October on a new $65 million
museum designed by Richard Gluckman.

Status: Construction now will begin in 12-18 months.

N. Mexican American Cultural Center

Town Lake at River Street.

Original plans: 126,000-square-foot center

Status: Phase I construction set for mid-2002.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The CarrAmerica Building, center, as seen in July, takes shape on West
Sixth Street in downtown Austin. Despite the past year's tepid economy, Austin's
skyline continues to evolve. // Fleming's Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar, left, and
P.F. Chang's are among new restaurants already in business in the shadow of the
expanding Austin Convention Center, right, on East Second Street.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               70 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 18, 2001, Thursday

Texas Business

BYLINE: Claudia Grisales, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 660 words


In Central Texas

Gas prices are lowest since December 1999

Cheaper gasoline prices are making it less expensive to fill the tank.
Austin-area prices have dropped by 16 cents a gallon in the last month to an
average of $1.22 a gallon for regular unleaded, according to the monthly survey
by AAA Texas.

Slowing demand for oil, accelerated by a dropoff in air travel, has put downward
pressure on prices. The Texas average is $1.23, the lowest since December 1999.

The savings could boost road travel over upcoming holidays or boost holiday
shopping budgets, said Rose Rougeau, spokesperson for AAA Texas.

"It saves the consumer money, and that money can be allocated elsewhere," she
said.

-- Claudia Grisales

Tarrant County buys eSlate voting system

Hart InterCivic, an Austin company that makes online voting systems, has sold an
eSlate system to Tarrant County in North Texas. The county will use it for early
voting, replacing an optical scanning system.

The system, sold for $776,850, will be used for early voting starting next week.

Hart InterCivic earlier sold the system to Harris County, the largest electronic
voting site so far.

Around the state

FCC criticizes, fines SBC Communications

SAN ANTONIO -- SBC Communications Inc. faces a $2.5 million fine in connection
with its request for federal permission to offer long-distance service in Kansas
and Oklahoma.

In February, SBC told the Federal Communications Commission it had discovered
affidavits that were part of the application may have contained
misrepresentations.

The commission's Enforcement Bureau concluded that SBC did not intentionally
provide false information. But the bureau said SBC apparently committed other
violations, including not notifying the FCC of the errors quickly enough,
intentionally misrepresenting other information during the investigation and not
training all its employees, as required by a previous consent decree, to provide
accurate information to the FCC.

"SBC has not exercised the degree of care we expect from our regulatees," the
report said. "We are disturbed by SBC's apparent actions here."

SBC plans to fight the fine, saying it is disappointed in the fine because the
FCC found no evidence of intentional wrongdoing.

Kinko's headquarters to be moved to Texas

DALLAS -- Kinko's Inc. will move its corporate headquarters to North Texas from
Ventura, Calif.

"The move is an economic decision based on the benefits that North Texas
delivers to a company with 1,165 locations worldwide," said Gary Kusin,
president and chief executive officer of the copying-center giant. He cited the
region's central location, lower costs of living and taxes, and favorable
business climate.

"We truly need to be near a big airport," he said. "Our locations are all over,
and D/FW Airport is just about the most centrally-located, best-accessed airport
in the country."

Kinko's, with annual revenue of about $2 billion expected for 2001 and 25,000
employees in nine countries, will probably become the Dallas-Fort Worth area's
largest privately-held corporation. The relocation is expected to create 500
jobs in North Texas.

Company earnings/warnings

NetSolve Inc.

Austin-based NetSolve Inc. record revenue of $12.3 million for the quarter that
ended Sept. 30.

The network management services company had a profit of slightly more than $1
million on its sales, or 8 cents per share.

Revenue from services grew by more than $1 million from the previous quarter,
following four relatively flat quarters. The rest of the company's revenue comes
from equipment sales.

Highlights of the quarter included an expansion of NetSolve's sales force, a
license agreement with NEC Japan and a successful field trial for IP Telephony.

These successes "sustain our excitement about NetSolve's business and its
prospects," said Craig Tysdal, president and chief executive officer.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               71 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 25, 2001, Thursday

Dales might be front ofCanadian flow to Big 12,
Best women's player in conference is guard from Ontario

BYLINE: Olin Buchanan, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 806 words


IRVING -- When autumn gives way to winter, the arctic winds of Canada inevitably
gust southward, chasing those in southern climates indoors to escape the cold.

But relief can't always be found there.

In three basketball seasons, Oklahoma's Stacey Dales has swept through the
gymnasiums of America's heartland like an Alberta Clipper, bringing with her a
cold, ironic reality:

It might be that the best women's player in America is Canadian.

First, the Toronto Blue Jays won the World Series and now this.

What's this all aboot?

It's about an immensely talented basketball player who has led Oklahoma's rise
from a struggling program into a bona fide national power. It's about player who
may well lead Oklahoma to a national championship and could be the reason for a
Canadian influence in the Big 12 Conference.

Dales, a 6-foot senior guard from Brookville, Ontario, who averaged 16 points
and 7.3 assists, was the Big 12's player of the year last season and is expected
to retain that honor this season. She's been chosen preseason player of the year
by Women's Basketball Journal and Basketball News and she's the primary reason
Oklahoma, 5-22 the season before her arrival, was selected No. 1 in the nation
by one preseason publication.

"Stacey makes others on her team look better and that's what a great player
does," OU teammate Caton Hill said.

And while Dales is all the rave in the Big 12, she's sending a message that
there's more where she came from.

"Every year I see more and more Canadians on the American circuit," Dales said
Wednesday at the Big 12 Conference women's basketball media day. "You've got to
give credit to America for accepting so many people from so many walks of life
in every aspect of sport. I definitely think you'll see more Canadians have
success and achieving things in America.

"Basketball is one of the only organized sports (in Canada) for females to
participate in. I traveled every weekend to East Ontario to play club-sponsored
basketball. The club teams grew and grew and evolved quickly and became a
melting pot. Eventually American teams from upstate New York would come up to
play in our tournaments."

More interest leads to more players.

There are 10 foreign-born players on Big 12 women's rosters, and although only
Dales is a true star, four are entering their first year in the Big 12.

Six of the foreign players are Canadian, and Dales expects that number to grow
in future years. She cites the NBA's relatively recent expansion into Toronto
six years ago and her own success as creating more interest.

"There's definitely added attention from (girls in Canada) seeing the success I
have enjoyed," she said. "You can't match the experience I've had. In the future
they will recognize that and see things I've done and they too will feel maybe
they can do it."

It's worth the coach's effort to find out.

Texas Coach Jody Conradt built a Hall of Fame career recruiting players from the
United States in general and Texas in particular, and she said that won't
change.

"Texas is the best place to recruit," Conradt said. "There are outstanding
players all over the world and we generally haven't recruited internationally. I
still contend if you can keep all the good players in Texas you'd have a chance
to compete for that national championship every year."

Yet, Conradt is broadening her horizons. Last fall, perhaps responding to what
Dales has done for Oklahoma, Conradt signed only the second foreign player of
her career at Texas, Canadian Jody Bell.

"We get lots of letters and we routinely follow up on them," Conradt said. "Jody
wrote us a letter and we followed up and got a chance to recruit her. It's sort
of hit and miss when recruiting internationally."

The rewards can be worth the trouble.

"I've heard Sheri (Coale, Oklahoma head coach) tell the story that when she
found Stacey Dales she wasn't even looking for her," Conradt said. "She went to
see somebody else and then found Stacey."

Sometimes you hit even when you miss.

You may contact Olin Buchanan at obuchanan@statesman.com or (512) 445-3952.

Foreign Legions

Here's a list of foreign-born women playing basketball in the Big 12:

Player

School

Class

Hometown

1.Jody Bell

Texas

Fr

Chestermere, Alberta

2. Greichaly Cepero

Nebraska

So

Dorado, Puerto Rico

3. Jennifer Cunningham

Oklahoma

Sr

Kingston, Ontario

4. Stacey Dales

Oklahoma

Sr

Brockville, Ontario

5. Virginie Delepine

Colorado

Sr

Loeuilly, France

6. Nikki Lawrence

Oklahoma St.

Sr

Montreal, Quebec

7. Sarah Lini

Colorado

Fr

Arhus, Denmark

8. Leila Mengum

Kansas

So

Stockholm, Sweden

9. Valerie Migicovsky

Kansas

Fr

North Bay, Ontario

10. Theresa Schuknecht

Oklahoma

Jr

Medicine Hat, Alberta

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stacey Dales, the Big 12 player of the year last season, has made OU a
national contender.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               72 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

NASA backtracks on decision to cut asteroid search funds

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith Washington Bureau

SECTION: News; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 463 words


WASHINGTON -- NASA on Thursday hurriedly reversed a decision to cut funds for a
program that tracks newly discovered asteroids to make sure they are not on a
collision course with Earth.

The action came after astronomy societies condemned what they said was a NASA
tight-budget decision to terminate use of a radar telescope at the Arecibo
Observatory in Puerto Rico to track near-Earth objects.

The agency will take $400,000 out of another program to keep the Arecibo radar
telescope operating until the end of the current fiscal year next fall, rather
than ending funding Jan. 1, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
spokesman Don Savage said. He confirmed that the director of the Arecibo
telescope had been told his funds were being cut immediately.

Near-Earth objects are huge hunks of rock, primarily asteroids, that are
considered a distant threat because every 50 million or 100 million years, one
of them wanders out of its orbit and collides with Earth.

Such a collision about 65 million years ago is believed to have brought on
climate changes that led to the extinction of the dinosaurs. Congress has
directed NASA to locate all near-Earth objects larger than 1 kilometer in
diameter by 2008 and determine whether any of them are due to collide with Earth
in the next century or so. It provides about $3.5 million a year to carry out
the search.

After this fiscal year, the Arecibo radar astronomers will have to submit
proposals to the agency and compete with other proposals for funding, Savage
said.

Plans to end funding for the radar studies were condemned by the Planetary
Society and the American Astronomical Society.

"Arecibo radar observations are crucial for determining the exact location,
speed and direction of objects that approach Earth," said Louis Friedman,
executive director of the Planetary Society.

The Planetary Society, which Friedman co-founded with the late Carl Sagan in
1979, has been a leading advocate of locating near-Earth objects, plotting their
orbits and learning as much as possible about their size, composition, velocity
and other characteristics.

NASA planetary scientist Tom Morgan said astronomers can plot the orbits of many
newly discovered objects relatively quickly "and retire the risk" because they
clearly are not headed this way.

"It's very likely that we will end this exercise and report to Congress in 2009
that no asteroids are on a course that would bring them into a collision with
Earth in the next one or two centuries," Morgan said. "If, God forbid, we end up
finding there is one out there and determine its orbit, the best way to
characterize it would probably be with a remote observation by spacecraft."

You may contact Jeff Nesmith at jeffn@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 1,000-foot-wide radar dish at Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico is
built into a natural sinkhole and is used to track near-Earth objects. Congress
gives the project about $3.5 million a year for research.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               73 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

Asteroid search funds slashed, then restored

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith Washington Bureau

SECTION: News; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 688 words


WASHINGTON -- NASA on Thursday hurriedly reversed a decision to cut funds for a
program that tracks newly discovered asteroids to make sure they are not on a
collision course with Earth.

The action came after astronomy societies condemned what they said was a NASA
tight-budget decision to terminate use of a radar telescope at the Arecibo
Observatory in Puerto Rico to track near-Earth objects.

The agency will take $400,000 out of another program to keep the Arecibo radar
telescope operating until the end of the current fiscal year next fall, rather
than ending funding Jan. 1, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
spokesman Don Savage said. He confirmed that the director of the Arecibo
telescope had been told his funds were being cut immediately.

Near-Earth objects are huge hunks of rock, primarily asteroids, that are
considered a distant threat because every 50 million or 100 million years, one
of them wanders out of its orbit and collides with Earth in a cataclysmic crash.

Such a collision about 65 million years ago is believed to have brought on
climate changes that led to the extinction of the dinosaurs. Congress has
directed NASA to locate all near-Earth objects larger than 1 kilometer in
diameter by 2008 and determine whether any of them are due to collide with Earth
in the next century or so. It provides about $3.5 million a year to carry out
the search.

After this fiscal year, the Arecibo radar astronomers will have to submit
proposals to the agency and compete with other proposals for funding, Savage
said.

Plans to end funding for the radar studies were condemned by the Planetary
Society and the American Astronomical Society.

"Arecibo radar observations are crucial for determining the exact location,
speed and direction of objects that approach Earth," said Louis Friedman,
executive director of the Planetary Society. "We need this information to know
how significant the probability is of any one asteroid hitting the Earth."

"It is irresponsible for Congress to mandate that NASA undertake asteroid and
comet detection and then to not provide sufficient funds for that program," he
added.

Friedman said the NASA program has had two principal parts: finding near-Earth
objects and determining where each is headed.

The first part can be done only with optical telescopes, because the dark-space
objects do not emit their own radiation and can be detected only by the visible
light they reflect. Under the congressionally mandated search for the objects,
large swatches of the night sky are repeatedly photographed and scanned by
computers to see if anything in a picture has moved since the last time that
area was photographed.

If a moving object is determined to be a near-Earth object, the second phase is
best performed by a radar telescope, which can accurately and quickly calculate
the object's speed and path, just as a traffic officer's radar gun can identify
speeders, Friedman said.

"You can get an orbital path within a gnat's eyelash in a day or so with a radar
telescope," he said. On the other hand, to plot the orbit with data from the
optical telescope may take hundreds of calculations over days or weeks, he said.

The Planetary Society, which Friedman co-founded with the late Carl Sagan in
1979, has been a leading advocate of locating near-Earth objects, plotting their
orbits and learning as much as possible about their size, composition, velocity
and other characteristics.

NASA planetary scientist Tom Morgan said astronomers can plot the orbits of many
newly discovered objects relatively quickly "and retire the risk" because they
clearly are not headed this way.

"It's very likely that we will end this exercise and report to Congress in 2009
that no asteroids are on a course that would bring them into a collision with
Earth in the next one or two centuries," Morgan said. "If, God forbid, we end up
finding there is one out there and determine its orbit, the best way to
characterize it would probably be with a remote observation by spacecraft."

You may contact Jeff Nesmith at jeffn@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               74 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 30, 2001, Sunday

A president's new purpose
Sept. 11 may have changed the office and the administration, but it didn't
change the man

BYLINE: Bob Deans, Washington Bureau

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1367 words


WASHINGTON -- He took office nearly a year ago under a cloud of election
controversy and promptly stirred a clamor by blazing a my-way-or-the-highway
foreign policy path that rankled overseas friends and foes alike.

But George W. Bush has transformed his presidency and grown in stature on the
domestic and world stages through steady yet determined efforts to combat the
global scourge behind the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

As a result, Bush, whose legitimacy was questioned by millions of voters last
winter, has seen his popular support bounce to the highest sustained level of
any president in modern history.

A recent Gallup Organization poll shows that nearly nine out of 10 Americans
approve of how he's handled his job, up from 51 percent before the terrorist
strikes.

In a separate Dec. 14-16 poll by USA Today, CNN and Gallup, 39 percent of
respondents named Bush as the man they most admire.

Bush will need all the backing he can get in the months ahead. As the
anti-terror campaign grinds on and its costs pile up, he'll have to contend with
a painful economic downturn, rising unemployment and an ever-darkening federal
budget picture.

All are certain to be on voters' minds as Bush delivers his State of the Union
address in several weeks, if not during midterm congressional elections in
November.

For now, though, Bush is riding high. He came to the presidency vowing to
restore the dignity of an office tarnished by scandal and diminished by the
post-Cold War dispersion of political authority. So far, he appears to have lent
new currency to the White House.

"In a sense, the presidency is back," presidential scholar Robert Dallek of
Boston University said. "It's been restored to a position of much greater
credibility in the eyes of the public, and Bush has played that role well."

He's done so largely by playing himself, close aides and independent analysts
agree. Although the events of Sept. 11 have changed the Bush White House, they
haven't much changed George W. Bush.

"I don't spend a lot of time looking in the mirror, except when I comb my hair,"
Bush replied Friday during a news conference at his Crawford ranch, when a
reporter asked whether he'd changed since the attacks.

"I'll give you a hint," he added. "I liked coming to the ranch before September
the 11th. I like coming to the ranch after September the 11th."

It seemed like Bush's way of saying what others have noted.

"The presidency has transformed a lot more than the president," said Ivo
Daalder, senior fellow for foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution,
a Washington think tank.

"George Bush now has a purpose to his presidency that he lacked -- both in
foreign policy and in general -- prior to September 11th," said Daalder. "It
gives him importance; it gives him stature. Aside from that, I don't see that
the man or the president has changed a lot."

If Bush has become more fluent in foreign policy, he's proved no less willing to
go his own way when he feels it's best. He walked away from the Kyoto climate
control treaty, for example, as well as from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile
treaty with Moscow.

Even the global anti-terror coalition is a bit of a misnomer: Bush made clear
early on that the United States would seek neither permission nor consensus from
others on what he defined as a broad mission of self-defense.

Far more instinctual than introspective, Bush still clings to a stark, at times
simplistic view of the world and America's place in it. He often prefers punchy,
even jingoistic, from-the-gut homilies to more nuanced analysis.

During a news conference Oct. 11 in the White House East Room, Bush, unprompted,
went out of his way to say he couldn't fathom why millions of people across the
Arab and Muslim worlds resent American power. He never mentioned such sore
points as U.S. support for Mideast despots, the country's dependence on cheap
Persian Gulf crude oil and American support for Israel in its 50-year conflict
with the Palestinians.

"I'm amazed that there is such misunderstanding of what our country is about,
that people would hate us," Bush said. "Like most Americans, I just can't
believe it, because I know how good we are."

Such talk may cause heads to shake in foreign policy salons. But at home, the
approach has gone down as a fair-enough way to deal with those who would fly
commercial jetliners into American office towers.

"He's struck the right chords; he's been in sync with the public," Dallek said.
"It's pretty clear-cut that these terrorists are ugly folks. In a sense, it's
been perfect for him. He's a man who deals in black and white."

Daalder added: "And, more importantly, he's the one who determines who's black
and who's white."

Far more than shaping the man, the Sept. 11 attacks have highlighted the style
Bush brought to the presidency, senior White House political counselor Karl Rove
said.

"I, for one, don't buy this theory that September 11th somehow changed George W.
Bush," Rove said at a Dec. 11 panel discussion at the American Enterprise
Institute, a Washington research group.

"It showed the strength of character that the world has seen since then," said
Rove, one of the president's closest aides. "Nothing on September 11th created
that."

Bush's current standing, though, is something not even Rove could have predicted
a year ago, when the former governor was preparing to take office as a candidate
who had lost the popular vote and won the decisive electoral vote only on a 5-4
Supreme Court decision.

Just 45 percent of the country thought Bush won the election "fair and square"
by the time he was inaugurated, a poll by Gallup Organization showed, and fully
one-fourth of the nation thought he had stolen the election.

"He was seen almost as a pretender to the presidency," said Herb Parmet, a
retired professor of history at City University of New York.

Bush pushed such sentiments out of his mind, and he asked the American people to
do the same.

"Sometimes in life, we are called to do great things," he said -- prophetically,
as it turned out -- in his Jan. 20 inaugural address, which focused on goals
that now seem almost mundane: improving education, reforming Social Security and
cutting taxes.

"I will bring the values of our history to the care of our times," Bush pledged,
with no way of knowing that just eight months later his era would be defined in
the most violent and frightening of terms.

Indeed, on Sept. 11, Bush was pressing his education agenda, reading to
schoolchildren in a Florida event staged for the cameras, when he learned of the
attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"Today our nation saw evil, the very worst of human nature," Bush said to the
nation that night from the Oval Office, vowing to confront a new foe head-on.
"America has stood down enemies before, and we will do so this time."

In unscripted moments, Bush revealed the soul of a deeply troubled man, wounded
and grieving along with his nation even as he publicly steeled himself for the
struggles ahead.

"I'm a loving guy," Bush said in response to a reporter's question in the Oval
Office a few days later, his eyes tearing up, his lips quivering. "I'm also
someone, however, who's got a job to do, and I intend to do it."

By Sept. 17, Bush had begun to harden his tone.

Meeting with his senior security advisers, Bush was asked by a reporter whether
he wanted Osama bin Laden dead.

"I want justice," Bush replied, edging perceptibly deeper into his native Texas
twang. "And there's an old poster out West, as I recall, that said, 'Wanted:
dead or alive.' "

So stands U.S. policy on bin Laden's fate to this day.

With far more of such straight talk than of Churchillian rhetoric, Bush has
managed to connect with the American people to a degree some have found
surprising.

"He has risen to the task," CUNY professor Parmet said. "He's given the country
confidence, and it has overshadowed and possibly completely overwhelmed the
controversy over his election in 2000. He had no choice but to grab the mantle
of presidential power, and he has."

You may contact Bob Deans at bobdeans@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Bush now has a purpose to his presidency that he lacked . . . prior to
September 11th,' one analyst said of the president.// Nine days after the Sept.
11 attacks, millions of Americans watched President Bush speak in front of a
joint session of Congress at the Capitol. As his personal inspiration, he cited
the heroic actions of New York and New Jersey Port Authority officer George
Howard, whose shield he carries. 'It is my reminder of lives that ended and a
task that does not end,' the president said.'Called to do great things'Nation's
tragedy raises opinions of Bush, whom some saw as a pretender

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               76 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 23, 2001, Saturday

Letters

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 996 words


Accentuate the positive, please

It is sad how the Austin American-Statesman can only focus on the negative
aspects of President Bush's European tour. A June 15 report spoke of "the
largest protest of his visit" as 10,000 gathered. On previous days, articles
reported protests of 200 people -- a big flop as protests go.

Why must the Statesman be so politically negative toward the current
administration?

TED DAVIS

Georgetown

What teacher shortage?

I am a certified elementary teacher with a master's degree in reading. I am
looking for a job and seem to be having a very difficult time with the search.
You would think that from all the media reports that my search would have ended
almost as soon as it began. I am constantly hearing the cry of the alarmed
public about the "teacher shortage."

As I was working on my master's, I was told I would have no difficulty finding a
good job in a good district because of the scarcity of qualified, certified
teachers. And yet here I sit, day after day, hoping and praying that today will
be the day someone will return my phone call and ask me to interview for a
teaching position.

I have spent countless hours completing and submitting applications and resumes
to no avail. I have gone to the numerous job fairs; I have called the personnel
departments and written several letters. And yet, I have no job. What's wrong
with this picture?

AMY MICHELLE DAWKINS

Austin

Let's be reasonable

Re: Gail Collins' June 20 column "It's really simple: Where the money goes, so
go the teachers":

Not only does the State Board of Education need to read Collins' remarks, the
Legislature must address the teacher shortage or the standard of living in Texas
will decline.

Texas is one of several states leading the nation with a teacher shortage. One
reason for this need is that Texas makes it almost impossible for professionals
to leave their current jobs and teach any subject.

Any person wanting to teach in junior or senior high school who is not
"certified" must pay $5,000 for an emergency certification certificate and
attend class three days a week for five months.

What reasonable person making more than $50,000 would leave their job to make a
teacher's starting salary of $25,000?

MICHELE DAVIS

Cedar Park

A proposal

When addressing the question of whether teachers are paid enough for their work,
arguments needs to be worded carefully.

I believe that Texas teachers are underpaid for the work they are supposed to be
doing, but are overpaid for what they are achieving.

How about a deal? The teachers' unions agree to increased teacher testing and
accountability and to make it easier to employ competent individuals without
education degrees as teachers. In exchange, taxpayers will raise teacher pay.

STEVEN ZORASTER

Austin

Do no harm

First the fuzzy logic appeared in a recent Geneva Overholser column and June 15,
it was repeated in the American-Statesman editorial "Sex discrimination is a
bitter pill."

The insurance companies got it right, and the editorial got it wrong.  Viagra is
used to restore/cure a malfunctioning bodily system whereas prescription
contraceptives are used primarily to destroy/maim a properly functioning bodily
system. Can't you see the difference, all politically correct emotion aside?
Remember the time-proven moral dictate to doctors: "Do no harm." The Statesman's
version is "Do no harm unless personally inconvenient."

J.E. FAIRCHILD

Martindale

Dealing with life

I think it is just grand that Maureen Dowd is everywoman and needs no
pharmaceuticals (June 12 column, "American women, all dolled up"). Her
generalizations regarding women who are using anti-depressants was at best
mean-spirited and at worse just stupid.

I work every day and take care of my home and family, including trying to make
sure my elderly father is being taken care of in another state. I also take an
antidepressant because I found that I was being overwhelmed. Two of my sisters
also take something to help them.

My mother died at age 59 from the results of years of alcoholism, and I am
pretty sure if she had been diagnosed and given medicine back in the '50s she
would still be here.

I am not taking " a mother's little helper" to avoid dealing with life. I take
it because I deal with it every day.

CHRISTINE THOMAS-SCHILTZ

Pflugerville

Words do matter

Orientation implies creation. Preference means choice. Rep. Warren Chisum,
R-Pampa, was successful in his bid to change the wording of the James Byrd Jr.
Hate Crimes Act from orientation to preference, from creation to choice.

How ironic that laws are contrived to exact choice in human sexuality and
prevent choice in human reproduction. They would deny choice to women who
clearly have one and demand choice of gays who likely have none.  Some lawmakers
just can't seem to get it straight. But, then, of course, some folks seem to
think the whole world should be straight.

PAUL W. DODD

Austin

Don't assume

Kathleen Parker's June 14 column "Obese? So sue them" is ill-informed about
causes of obesity and is discriminatory.

Weight has a whole lot to do with genetics and not, as Parker concludes,
"suffusing your body with fat-laden, sugary foods." I am fat, and I don't care
for sweets, never have. My diet is very healthy and my intake is less than
skinny folks I know. I am strong and have great stamina.

Parker would call my brother fat, too, and assume he is making "bad choices" and
taxing our health-care system. Wrong! He has been a devout vegetarian for 11
years. He builds stages and has the blood pressure of a marathon runner.

My husband of 25 years, however, has always been thin. He eats heartily and
drinks supplements to keep his weight up to 145 pounds. So on behalf of
individuals who fight hard to stay healthy, despite our genes, Parker can take
her assumptions and go jump into a pool of fat.

BELINDA CARLTON

Dale

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Larry Bohlen, right, from Washington, D.C., and fellow members of
Friends of Earth dressed as President Bush protest last week in Goteborg,
Sweden. The group wants Bush to follow the Kyoto protocol on climate
protection.// Amy Michelle Dawkins

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               77 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 5, 2001, Thursday
                              Correction Appended

David
He writes everything. He plays everything, but how does a corporate-stamped
hippie minstrel keep it reel?

BYLINE: Michael Corcoran Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2313 words


PLAYING FOR THE MAN: If you're David Garza, this is the part of your career
where you get up at 8 a.m. and go to a room at Atlantic Records and play your
guitar and sing for an audience that may or may not have logged on to the
label's Web site. But when the 30-year-old Austinite went through that routine
last week as a promotion for his new album, which comes out Tuesday, he found
himself also playing for a congressman who was sitting in the room, looking into
the merger between America Online and Atlantic's parent company, Time Warner.

"I guess he wanted to see a musician in action as part of his investigation,"
says Garza, who is all too aware of the climate of legal touchiness in this era
of Napster. "I'm sure his report compared me to T. Rex," he adds with a laugh,
referring to one of the many acts, including Prince, Bryan Ferry and Jeff
Buckley, that Garza finds himself constantly compared to.

The aptly named "Overdub," which Garza produced in addition to writing all the
songs and playing all the instruments on five cuts, was originally planned as a
22-song set, with 11 songs "hidden" on the enhanced disc and playable only by
inserting it into the CD-ROM drive of a computer. Atlantic was fine with the
idea, but just before the CDs were about to be pressed, the pioneering project
was shot down by AOL Time Warner's legal department, which in the age of digital
downloads is antsy about anything involving computers and seemingly "free"
music. Instead, the label decided to enhance the CD with "Underdub," the
stripped-down, four-track demos of the album's 11 "official" songs.

"They could've fit 18 or 19 songs and just sold it as a 75-minute CD," Garza
says. But because the decision came so late there wasn't time to make that
change. "Now I've got this whole other album nobody's gonna ever hear." For a
guy who used to crank out CDs on his own Wide Open label and sell them from the
stage for $5 each just so his music would be heard, it's gotta be frustrating.
It's conceivable that the tracks could find their way to B-sides, movie
soundtracks and other uses, but in his current state of anticipation and worry,
Garza can't see that far down the trail. His mental calendar doesn't go past
July 10, when it'll be all over, this excruciating period of setbacks, delays
and do overs.

STRIKE ONE, STRIKE TWO, STRIKE . . .: It's an album that has been assembled
piecemeal at the whims of the label brass, which is ironic. In the beginning,
which was early 2000, Garza had envisioned a record that would sound like the
cohesive rock 'n' roll albums he grew up listening to in Irving, Texas. When
Garza, thinking he had creative control, turned in the record last summer, the
ex-Living Colour rhythm section of Will Calhoun and Doug Wimbish was on every
track. "I wanted it to sound like a band record, rather than my usual style
where, you know, here's a boombox recording from the bathroom and this one is
outside with me hanging from a tree." But Atlantic sent him back to the studio
for 10 more tracks in which David plays all the instruments. They still didn't
hear a hit, so Garza went back in and delivered "Say Baby," a cynical number
about making concessions to radio. "Soul is a four-letter scam," he sings in his
lanky falsetto, "the DJ won't spin your jam until you say baby, baby, baby,
baby, baby."

"They treat the producer me differently than they do the artist me," Garza says
on the phone from the Lower East Side apartment he's being put up at for a month
as he does the promo grind and lives for his weekly Wednesday solo gig at the
Mercury Lounge. "As the producer I don't like to turn in a record and then be
told it's not there yet. But as a songwriter I love another chance to get back
in the studio." The label sends a car for the artist, but for the producer they
only send tapes back for more work.

There's no denying that there's tremendous pressure for "Overdub" to sell well
and for Garza to fulfill the predictions of insiders who dubbed him a
next-big-thing in waiting after a SXSW showcase at Steamboat in 1996 led to a
bidding war. "This is pretty much the ball game here," Garza says. "I'm working
for AOL, dude. You think they want to lay back and give me a chance to
organically grow as an artist?"

His major label debut, '98's "This Euphoria," which was admired by those who get
their CDs for free, but failed to catch on with the buying public, was strike
one. And in this competitive high stakes game, where four major corporations
control more than 90 percent of CD sales, you might not get a third strike. And
so Garza is going where they tell him to go and doing what they tell him to do,
even if he sometimes doesn't agree. "They don't want me to hold a guitar in
photo sessions," he says. "They think it confuses kids who've never seen a
guitar before." His quirky relationship with the corporate rock life is all over
the new record, starting from the opening cut, "Drone." Over a dissonant throb
he sings, "When I was young/used to hear voices used to sing along/play them
black keys/and push them pedals down/used to breathe" and then there's
resignation. "But now it's all drone."

"You know what's crazy?" he asks. "I couldn't find a single person at Atlantic
Records, the home of Foreigner, who could name a song on the first Foreigner
record besides 'Cold As Ice.' I mean, c'mon 'Headknocker' anyone? 'Starrider?'
These are some of the greatest songs Atlantic has ever put out and nobody's ever
heard of 'em." Garza never has stopped being a fan. He has an almost
encyclopedic recollection of the bad groups of the '70s and '80s like April Wine
and Point Blank, who rocked his world as an 8-year-old.

UP WITH PEOPLE IN BIRKENSTOCKS: When he sings "I was born in the shadow of a
stadium" on "God's Hand," one of "Overdub" 's highlights, Garza is talking about
Texas Stadium, the home of his beloved Dallas Cowboys and a couple of Texxas Jam
concerts of yore. Garza's parents, who met as teen-agers in Rio Grande City and
went to UT together, moved to Irving in '67, just after David's dad returned
from Vietnam. He got a good job as a management consultant with the federal
government and sent his four kids (David's got two older brothers and a younger
sister) to Catholic school. "When I was in high school I begged my parents to
send me to the Arts Magnet school (which would prep such talents as Erykah Badu,
Roy Hargrove, Earl Harvin and the God's Property gospel group), but they
wouldn't hear it," says David, who evolved from metalhead to jazz prodigy in
junior high. Every year in high school he made it to the All-State Jazz
Competition in San Antonio as the best guitarist and would usually room with
trumpet player Hargrove.

Another group of Magnet grads would have a big impact on Garza's formative
years. "I used to hang around with Edie (Brickell) and the New Bohemians when I
was 16, 17 years old," Garza says. "We'd jam for hours, man. Brad Houser on
bass, Matt Chamberlin on drums (which he played on the first Pearl Jam record)
and me and Kenny Withrow on guitar. Edie would sometimes make up songs. It was a
magical time." A scholarship to study music at UT brought David to Austin, where
he would make an impact faster than you could say "Twang Twang Shock-A-Boom."

It's 1989 and Austin is still a college town. A period of overdevelopment and
overextention in the mid-'80s had come to an end when the oil biz tanked, banks
collapsed and the real estate boom went bust. Landlords were voluntarily
lowering rents. Bands were living together in old houses in Hyde Park and
musicians could get by on just one part-time job. It was a good time to be poor,
this last glimmer of Bohemia.

It was a good time to be David Garza, whose band Twang Twang Shock-a-Boom was a
local sensation, selling out Liberty Lunch and moving carloads of their tapes.
"To be 18 years old and playing with two incredible musicians (drummer Chris
Searles and bassist Jack Haley) and getting the kind of response we were getting
from the audience was just the best feeling."

It almost made up for the backlash from longtime Austin bandwatchers, who
couldn't understand how a trio of wide-eyed nouveau hippies and their songs
about fish sticks and knobby knees could outdraw such established Austin acts as
Jimmie Dale Gilmore, Lou Ann Barton, Poison 13 and Dino Lee. Critics were
especially brutal, with one scribe calling the group "bad enough to drive a pimp
off a pay phone." Suddenly everyone was the scene treasurer, knocking Twang
Twang for not paying their dues.

"I was definitely thought of as some sort of carpetbagger from Dallas," Garza
says. "It was like you weren't allowed to have an audience unless you used to
flip burgers at the Armadillo." Instead of breaking into the existing scene,
Twang Twang became a scene unto itself. On their perfect Thursday afternoons,
the all-acoustic trio would turn the UT's West Mall into modern love-ins, the
fresh-faced followers singing along or clapping a rhythm for bongo man Searles
to play off of. It was Up With People in Birkenstocks, a hootenanny with
homework. Poi Dog Pondering had laid the groundwork for the busker paradise when
they started playing on the Drag and in the West Mall a year earlier, but Twang
Twang took it to the next level.

Then suddenly, at the height of the band's popularity in 1990, Garza quit. He
wanted to do his own thing without having to consult with bandmates. But for
awhile there, Garza looked like he had made a mistake of David Caruso-esque
proportions. "There were only about 100 people there for my first solo show at
Liberty Lunch and I kept wondering what happened to the other 900 people who
used to come see us." He was ribbed by writers about his insistence on using the
Spanish pronunciation of his name, so Garza ran with it and called his band
Dah-veed.

But if he seemed to have fun with the potshots on the surface, the criticism
hurt deep down. "Every creative person has a fragile ego, but I couldn't let
(the detractors) know they were getting at me." His shield was the studio, where
there was no one to tell him his lyrics were childish and his outlook inane. In
the studio there was only the sound of his own voice and the work of his hands.
There was also the road, where Garza could strut out from under the weight of
preconceptions back home. Touring hard (he went through four vans in seven
years) and writing prolifically, Garza was able to cultivate a cottage industry.
Before there was Bob Schneider and his DIY ethic and gleeful genre-hopping there
was David Garza, who has never let a grassroots approach mask his grand
ambitions.

"He doesn't need all that pushing and marketing. He'll get it because that's
what the major label people do. It's their jobs," says Craig Ross, whose
association with Garza goes back to his production on an early Twang Twang
cassette. "If it all fell apart tomorrow, if the major label deal went away and
he had to start all over David would be fine."

Still, you don't grow up in the shadow of a stadium and not want to hear the
multitudes roar for you.

SQUARING OFF OVER SCRABBLE: It's 2001 in a town bracing for another shift in the
boom/bust cycle. David Garza is playing Scrabble against a critic who met with
the singer at Cippolina to get some color for his story, but ended up so
embroiled in the game that the subject of music hardly came up. "Get ready to go
down," Garza says, as he gathers four wooden squares and starts to line them up
on the board. Just a day earlier he found out that his plan to release "Overdub"
's secret companion had been rejected by Atlantic's legal department. But his
disappointment is about to be eclipsed by the thrill of Scrabble victory.
"Q-U-I-B" is the word and with the triple word score bonus it racks up an
incredible 46 points. There's no way he can lose now. "Quib?" the opponent asks.
"That's not a word."

"Haven't you heard the term 'quib pro quo'?" Garza answers. Well, allright then,
count 'em up. The final score: Major label artist: 241. Rock critic: 219.

A week later the phone rings and it's David Garza. "Listen, man, I gotta tell
you something. 'Quib' isn't really a word. The one I was thinking about was
'quid,' so you really won." The critic says he knew it wasn't a word, but let it
slide. "We're even now, right?" asks the guy who once wrote that Garza's music
was bad enough to drive a pimp off a pay phone.

"Not by a long shot, dude," says Garza. "I'll let you know when the scars heal."

On "God's Hands," the song that congressman bobbed his head to before posing
with the Latino rocker for a photo op, David Garza sings that his dreams were
just dreams and they never came true. "Going back to the womb/back to the van"
he shouts in defiance. The womb is the four-track studio in the spare bedroom of
the house in Austin's Brentwood neighborhood he shares with his wife of just
over a year. The van is the road, where salvation is there for the taking, one
night at a time.

His album is now in AOL's hands. The folks in the boardroom are still trying to
hear a hit, but in the meantime they have, with all the irony in the world,
released "Say Baby" as the first single. Given the circumstances, this album has
almost no chance of breaking through and Garza probably knows it.

Friday was the part of his life where he got up at 8 a.m. to go to the Atlantic
offices for a full day of phone interviews. But first he put on the coffee and
picked up his guitar. Then, at least a year before he'll ever step inside a
studio on Atlantic's dime again, he wrote a new song called "Knee Deep." Ross is
right: It doesn't end here. Don't worry about David Garza, not as long as
there's a song in his head and a four-track recorder nearby.

You may contact Michael Corcoran at (512) 445-3652 or mcorcoran@statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2001, Thursday

CORRECTION: * A story on Page A7 Wednesday about career options for U.S. Sen.
Phil Gramm after he leaves office misstated the year that Texas A&M University
President Ray Bowen will step down. Bowen will leave in June 2002.

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American Statesman


                               78 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 2, 2001, Wednesday

'Survivor'in Texas?; No problem -- and we're not talking road-kill.

BYLINE: Kitty Crider, American-Statesman Food Editor

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1344 words


Chef Keith, aren't you just a little embarrassed at the emaciated bodies of your
fellow "Survivors"? They hardly speak well of the prowess of your profession.
(Is it true you've dropped more than 25 pounds too?)

What good did it do your TV tribe to have a hotshot chef in its midst?  Given
your results, the team would have been better off with a field botanist, someone
who could identify the safe-to-eat plants in the wild and would know how to use
them. Then Colby, Tina and the recently booted Elisabeth could have been supping
on a more diversified menu than your daily specials of fish and rice and rice
and fish.

Maybe Colby should have lobbied to have the whole "Survivor" series relocated to
Central Texas. Here in the Lone Star State, they might have actually gained
weight, especially if they found their way to someone's pasture and threw a
barbecue.

But even without cattle rustlin', Central Texas survivors could do just fine.

For one thing, half of the species of plants in a typical Central Texas pasture
have some edible part, says Scooter Cheatham, president of Useful Wild Plants of
Texas, who leads survival trips that could compete with CBS's current series.

In Central Texas, our Survivors could add to their menu dove, quail, wild
turkeys, rabbits, pigeons, frogs, squirrels and rattlesnakes, and they would be
well on their way to a fine wild-game dinner, Lone Star-style.

Not to be forgotten, certainly, is our fine state mammal, the armadillo,
Cheatham says. It has two kinds of meat -- the white meat that tastes "like
chicken" and the dark meat that tastes like pork. (But what about that rumor
that 'dillo can carry leprosy? Don't worry about it, says Ralph Waniska,
professor of food science at Texas A&M University, who has made stew of the
mammal more than once. "I do not know of any incidences of leprosy and
armadillo." He admits that it's hard work to get the meat, but he thinks
armadillo tastes a whole lot better than venison.)

Armadillo on the half-shell, Survivors? It's gotta beat that gummy rice.

'Course, Colby, that Texas flag-bearing stud, surely knows all this. But the
rest of the world has no idea of the culinary gold mine that abounds on these
grounds.

See that patch of prickly pear over there? Good eating. OK, so they have that
little sticky spine problem. Burn or scrape them off like farmers do for cattle.
And don't take that personally. Real people really do eat these things. Called
nopalitas on restaurant menus, the pads are edible raw but are a little tart.
(One caveat: Unless you are accustomed to eating them, limit consumption to no
more than a couple per person per meal. Overeating will have you racing to the
bushes to yell "Ralph!", increasing your chances of getting voted off the land.)

Midsummer through fall, the prickly pear bears edible fruits. Again, get those
spines off, and you can make wonderful jelly and purple margaritas.  (Chef
Keith, if we liked you better, we would tell you how you can cheat.  Well, OK.
Go to the freezer case in Central Market and buy the puree to achieve the same
culinary success.)

And that's not all. Some prehistoric native Americans also consumed the cactus
seeds, grinding them to make flour or mole to dust on seafood.

Or consider another food: This time of year, wild onions are rampant, especially
in moist areas. Use them in salads of dandelion greens or stir-fries. Identify
them by smell.

Also good in stir-fries are yucca flowers -- the petals. Pick out the pistils,
which tend to be bitter.

Agaritas and dewberries are in season right now, and there are three species of
mulberries in Central Texas. Add them to your fresh fruit-plate.

Don't forget our state tree: the pecan. Great nut, even for transplanted
Californians. Nibble it, or sunflower seeds, while you watch those silly games.

Mesquite, which has some 250 uses, is edible, too. The orange sticky material
between the seeds is high in carbs, notes Cheatham. And the seeds, rich in
protein, can be toasted, cooked like pintos, or ground into meal for bread. (So
it's not Mrs. Baird's recipe. C'mon, this is survival bread.) Primroses are
edible, but bluebonnets and Indian paint brush are not. However, dandelion
flowers and greens can go into the salad bowl.

Margaret White, who has taught survival plant courses, says one of her personal
favorites is cattail pollen -- that yellow spike above the corndog-looking
thing. It makes great pancakes, she insists. "I'm a modern gatherer. Use
one-third pollen and two-thirds Bisquick. I love them."

And the immature cattail, boiled and eaten like corn on the cob, smells and
tastes just like corn. Honest, she says.

This is just a sampling of the grande cuisine of the Lone Star land.  There's
much more. Why, you can even eat satellite-looking grass burrs.  (Finally, a use
for those horrid things.) The trick, say survivalists, is to toast them and then
grind them to make a meal. Salivating already, aren't you?

Now, survivalists tell us that the beauty of a Central Texas vegetarian plate is
that plants don't run away like game.

But if you prefer a meatier diet, you don't have to resort to those creepy,
crawly creatures or even rats like a previous Survivor group.

Sure, you could do the cricket/black ant thing. But it won't be 3-star.

"We've tried some insects," Cheatham says. "Most in this area are not very
flavorful."

Besides, there is better stuff. Central Texas has a fair amount of wild game.
Venison on the hoof. Squirrels. Raccoon and possum, but the latter two tend to
be greasy. And with all the other choices, who needs them?

Central Texans can survive just fine without them.

Venison fajitas, Tina?

You could do with a little meat on your bones.

You may contact Kitty Crider at kcrider@statesman.com or (512) 445-3656.

(FROM BOX)

Don't forget the rules of 3

Just how important is all this food survivor knowledge?

Much less than you think.

Food is No. 5 on John Weishaar's list of survival needs -- below shelter, warm,
signalling capabilities and water acquisition. Weishaar, who is senior principal
at Westwood High School,

teaches survival courses for the University of Texas Informal Classes, Austin
Community College and Westwood Community School. In general, he notes, the rules
of 3 say that you can survive:

* 3 minutes without air

* 3 hours without warmth

* 3 days without water

* 3 weeks without food.

Not that many people, other than "Castaway's" Tom Hanks, have to try to survive
in such extreme conditions. Most people are found within 72 hours, Weishaar
says. So the trick is to be prepared to flourish in adversity, not flounder.
(One of his secrets is to take along those little trick birthday candles that
won't go out. Light one and then use it to ignite many other things. Lasts much
longer than matches, which can get wet.  Another trick: Cotton balls or dryer
lint make good, lightweight tinder to get that fire going. Pack along those
"luxury" items and you can smell that barbecue now.)

(FROM BOX)

One man's treat is another man's trash

Eat a rattlesnake?

Gross, you say.

Yet, rattlesnake cakes have long been a popular appetizer on the menu at
Hudson's on the Bend, one of the top restaurants in Austin. Besides, that's
nothing compared to those rats and worms the Survivors have been eating.  Now,
THAT'S just too, too yucky.

Says who?

It's all in the eyes of the fork-holder.

We're a global consumer of many cultures. In this country, we don't hesitate to
consume crab claws, but we cringe at crickets and caterpillars.  Yet insects
play a decided role in the diets of people from Asia to Australia to Mexico.
Bats are eaten in China, horse meat in Europe, snails in France, chitlins in the
United States.

It's all about heritage, affluence and food supply.

-- Kitty Crider

See Survivor, E8

Continued from E1

Tom Lankes photos/ American-Statesman

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Central Texas boasts three types of edible mulberries., Cactus pads, or
nopalitas, are edible, and prickly pears make a purple margarita. // We had a
little too much fun with our state mammal, courtesy of Congress Avenue Card and
Gift Shop, but we do have a point. Armadillo is edible, as are the mulberries,
dandelion greens and prickly pears. In fact, half of the species of plants in a
typical Central Texas pasture offer something to eat.  Among wildflowers in
Texas, primroses are edible -- but bluebonnets and Indian paint brush are not.
Vegetarians can get by just fine on the fat of the Central Texas land. This
veggie platter includes native mulberries, primrose, dandelion greens, dandelion
flowers and, of course, pecans.  Survivor cuisine,Texas-style If you know your
state flower from your state mammal, you can survive out back in the Lone Star
state

                  Copyright 2001 The Austin American-Statesman
