
                               5 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Researchers object to way TCEQ wants to edit report

BYLINE: Farzad Mashhood AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 733 words


It's unclear when - or if - a state-commissioned report on the long-term health
of Galveston Bay will be published after researchers balked at requests by
environmental agency officials to remove references to sea level rise and human
involvement in climate change.

At issue is "State of the Bay: A characterization of the Galveston Bay
Ecosystem," by the Houston Advanced Research Center, a nonprofit group that
pursues regional sustainability.

The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality said in a statement that it
disagrees with certain parts of the report and that it would be "irresponsible
to take whatever is sent to us and publish it."

John Anderson , a Rice University oceanographer who wrote a chapter on sea level
rise on the upper Texas coast, said the state is attempting to censor him and
keep the public misinformed.

"To have a state agency come and say, 'That's not keeping up with our
philosophy,' that's just absurd," Anderson said. "That's just non-science."

Senior managers in the agency's water quality division had proposed drastic cuts
to much of his 22-page chapter, a copy of which the American-Statesman received
from Anderson. Changes included renaming a section originally titled "Impact of
Sea Level Rise" to "Sea Level Change" and cutting the four-page section by about
half.

When Anderson refused to make the changes, the agency said it would cut the
entire chapter.

"I can't imagine any reasonable person reading that article and looking at their
comments and their reviews and not call that censorship," said Anderson, who has
researched the Texas coast for a number of years.

The first State of the Bay report was published in 2002. State officials argue
that Anderson's chapter in the most recent report, which says sea level rise in
Galveston Bay is caused at least partially by humans, is "beyond the scope of
the ... report."

However, Lisa Gonzalez, one of the report's two editors, told the Statesman that
Anderson's chapter was necessary in a document meant to be used by residents,
policymakers and coastal resource managers as a summary of the bay's current and
future condition.

"It's very difficult to talk about Galveston Bay without talking about the
geomorphology of it. If you delete Anderson's chapter, it would be an incomplete
scientific study," said Jim Lester, the Houston Advanced Research Center's vice
president and the report's other editor.

Gonzalez and Lester, who wrote the majority of the report, have asked that their
names be taken off the document if it is published with the current revisions,
the Houston Chronicle reported last week. The commission has a contract of less
than $100,000 with the center to publish the report, the paper reported.

The center first asked Anderson to work on the report about two years ago.
Anderson was paid $5,000 for his contribution.

The deletions are not limited to mentions of human-induced climate change - a
theory agency commissioners have questioned in public meetings - but also
include long-term sea level rise cited in other peer-reviewed research, Anderson
said.

The report's researchers said they would be fine with including in the report an
article offering an alternative view on sea level rise or climate change.
Gonzalez, who met with commission staff along with Lester, said that idea never
took off.

"In the scientific community, it is fine to argue about theories. It is not OK
to either create fake facts or to delete valid facts," Lester said. "If (agency
administrators) had supplied us with some alternatives, we could have done the
typical scientific discussion."

Larry Soward, a former commissioner and executive director of the agency, said
he does not recall the commission ever taking such a hands-on approach to a
report they do not agree with.

"If the commissioners are saying they want to base their decision on sound
science, then why restrict the articulation of what science shows?" said Soward,
a Perry appointee who left the agency after his six-year term as commissioner
expired in 2009. Most recently, Soward consulted for an attorney who is suing
the commission over a new coal power plant and the protection of an endangered
species.

The center has been working since 2002 with the Galveston Bay estuary program,
an arm of the state's environmental commission, and has never before encountered
problems with publishing research, Gonzalez said.

fmashhood@statesman.com; 445-3972

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1184 words


'Michigan left' cost is worth it

Re: Nov. 28 article, "Loop 360 plan draws ire from neighbors."

My husband of almost 15 years grew up in western Michigan. The first time I
visited his family there, I thought it was wacky to have to turn right in order
to turn left on Chicago Drive west of Grand Rapids. But as we visit there almost
every year, I have come to notice that there is no traffic backed up on Chicago
Drive, and we are able to keep moving, rather than having to wait on a long
light. I know it sounds weird (isn't that what Austin is supposed to be
anyway?), but don't knock it until you've experienced it.

Yes, the price tag is high for the installation of "Michigan left-turns" on Loop
360. But I do think having fewer cars idling at the red lights will save on air
pollution and gasoline. And keeping traffic flowing is certainly a plus.

Kristen Hallman

Austin

Abbott's redistricting fight

How alarming and how audacious for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott to suggest
that the people have spoken about the redistricting issue. While the election
provided voice to various political candidates, the state must not base
redistricting on political affiliation but on demographics identified in the
most recent census. Throughout Texas, demographics have had significant and
identifiable changes in population; political districts should reflect those
changes. By making changes to Texas' political map only through the lenses of
political affiliation creates a sense that the attorney general does not
represent the people of Texas but only those affiliated with his political
party. It would appear Attorney General Abbott has removed the blindfold of Lady
Justice to promote his personal agenda.

Ramon C. Noches

Austin

U.S. interests abroad

The other night while watching the Republican presidential debate, I was once
again frustrated that the facts are buried under the rhetoric. What some
candidates seem to forget is that smart, effective foreign assistance programs
can be one of the best ways to advance U.S. interests. In addition to feeding
the poor and teaching the disadvantaged, they nurture emerging democracies -
which typically become our best trading partners - and contribute to our
homeland security. Mexico is a case in point. I work for an international
development company, and one of my projects is funded by the U.S. government and
focuses on improved economic governance and environmental management in Mexico.
Needless to say, it is to Texas' benefit to have an economically and
environmentally healthy, and stable, neighbor to the south. So while trimming
federal spending in these times of economic downturn is a good idea, let's not
forget the facts.

Michele Laird

Austin

Scientists and global warming

Re: Nov. 24 letter, "Global warming and the UN."

A recent letter said that more and more real scientists are coming out against
the man-made global warming theory and that it's a United Nations plot. Wrong.
According to PolitiFact.com, "A 2010 study published in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences - the official publication of the United States
National Academy of Sciences - found that out of 1,372 climate researchers under
review, approximately 97 to 98 percent of those actively publishing in the field
said they believe human beings are causing climate change. Earlier this year, a
committee organized by the National Research Council and the National Academy of
Sciences " concluded that climate change is occurring, that it is caused
primarily by the emission of greenhouse gases from human activities, and that it
poses significant risks for a range of human and natural systems."

Don Hammond

Austin

Who and what created the crash

Re: Nov. 26 letter, "Progressive delusion."

This letter irked me in two ways. First, the blatant disregard for facts and,
second, the paper's willingness to publish it. The letter claims Democrats held
both the executive and legislative branches of government "when all this debt
and problems were born." In reality, the credit crunch crashed the economy in
2008. The current Democratic administration was not in office when the crash
came. Further, the debt is largely the result of the Republican-led drive to
turn financial markets into what are, essentially, casinos and the Bush
administration's waging of two wars while making no effort to pay for them. In
fact, loopholes and tax cuts for global corporations and their executives were
created; this had never been done before in time of war.

John Inmon

Bastrop

Vote out rail favors

Re: Nov. 23 article, "City considers picking up tab to add MetroRail weekend
runs."

I want to thank the American-Statesman and Ben Wear for exposing Mayor Lee
Leffingwell's latest giveaway to Capital Metro and the rail system . The
proposal to give millions to Cap Metro was shocking. This outright gift would
allow cash-short Cap Metro to run a few extra trains on weekends. These extra
trains would be of great benefit to Austin, so says the mayor. This proposal
goes against all promises and guarantees made by the mayor that rail would never
cost the taxpayers a single penny in direct taxes. I believe Cap Metro does not
have the resources to run more trains due to poor planning. Taxpayers should not
have to bail them out.

There is an easy way to stop this. Vote no on the next rail proposal and no on
the mayor's re-election.

Robert P. Gerstenberg

Austin

Counting homeless veterans

Re: Nov. 26 article, "Austin's homeless veterans confront special challenges."

The first sentence in the article said that about one in five homeless residents
in Austin is a veteran. The article also states that the count of homeless
veterans is based on surveys of homeless shelters and housing programs, as well
as canvassing areas where homeless residents are known to take shelter. How do
the folks taking the count know that these homeless people are in fact veterans?
Do they just ask them? Has anyone checked the accuracy of these counts? Don't
count a homeless person as a veteran unless they can produce their DD Form 214.
Don't just take a person's word as fact that they served their nation in our
military.

Retired Lt. Col. John Schmidt III

Martindale

$410,000 and counting

Re: Nov. 25 article, "As landmark's restoration makes strides, some historical
surprises."

The article reminds me of the tax bucks I am shelling out for rental of
temporary living quarters of the governor and first lady of Texas. To date, tax
dollars have paid for extravagant living quarters at $10,000 per month times 41
months. That's $410,000 .

Texas children are going without health care, food and advocacy in abusive
situations. Our children's education funding was cut during the last legislative
session, and to me, squandering our tax dollars on living quarters is extremely
selfish.

Aside from embarrassing the citizens of Texas on several occasions during the
presidential primary, Perry has touted limits on terms for elected and appointed
officials. While you're at it, governor, you need to initiate a term limit for
Texas governor and put a limit on posh housing for state officials.

Cathleen Cranford

San Marcos

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1021 words


Billy the Kid

Re: Jan. 1 article "130 years after he was killed, Billy the Kid fails to get
pardon."

The last thing America needs is to posthumously pardon Billy the Kid, an outlaw
who would have made a fine fictional character but, unfortunately, is a
historical character who left behind many victims. In 2010, the number of cops
shot in the line of duty was up in the U.S. by some 20 percent.

If anyone should be honored and remembered, it is the Pat Garretts of the world.

Ron Charach

Toronto

Compromise

Someone should tell the Democrats in Washington that the newly elected
Republicans were not sent there to compromise. For the past two years, I never
heard them utter that word as big program after big program was pushed through
while they controlled both houses and the presidency.

Now all of a sudden, after the largest expansion of the federal government in
recent history, these Democrats are trying to tell us that the new Republicans
were elected to compromise and end the stalemate in Congress. I'd laugh if I
weren't so angry.

Congress has been a blight on this country for the past four years. Compromise
really isn't the issue.

William C. McCoy

Leander

Making the season bright ...

The City of Austin affirmed the notion that this year's Zilker Park and New
Year's observances can be fun without overspending. Zilker's tree was not less
opulent and joyful without the Trail of Lights. The New Year's Eve family
celebration on West Cesar Chavez Street was modest, less strenuous and
reachable. The fireworks were thrilling as usual.

Some were disappointed because the money wasn't plentiful to keep things like
they were. Extravagance and excess don't symbolize what Christmas is, especially
in Austin.

A very large "thank you" to the city folks for all you did to make the season
bright. We loved it with all our hearts.

Polly Husted

Austin

... Or not

Re: Jan. 1 article "Festive littering along Loop 360 draws humbugs."

We were disappointed at both the tone and the content of the article. We were
delighted to see the spontaneous Christmas tree decorations along Loop 360. Each
time we passed (or were stalled in traffic) the decorated trees lifted our
spirits.

If the "littering" is such a problem, why not ask for volunteers to remove the
decorations after the Christmas season? The reporter and the people quoted
seemed to be in dire need of a little Christmas spirit.

Larry and Ellen Kendrick

l.kendrick@sbcglobal.net

Austin

Climate change

Re: Dec. 31 article "F1 site work gets rolling."

Apparently local authorities ignored the Cancún conference on global climate
change, as is indicated by breaking ground for the Formula One racetrack. Rather
than declaring that such a project would increase greenhouse gasses,
governmental agencies provided variances and subsidies to expedite construction.

Similarly, last year's funding of water treatment plant No. 4, whose operation
will necessitate the generation of huge amounts of electricity, will increase
greenhouse gases. Proposition 1 - where 60 percent of the funding goes to
expanding auto use - will have a similar effect.

Unfortunately, this year it appears our green sheen will fade further with the
planned widening of MoPac Boulevard (Loop 1) encouraging yet more cars to get on
the road.

Philip Russell

adonfelipe@gmail.com

Austin

Cutting services

Re: Jan. 1 article "State budget cuts keep brain-injured Texan out of therapy
program."

It's pretty obvious from the comments on this article that some people simply do
not want to pay taxes to provide for the welfare of others, period. Regardless,
in the U.S., if you have a severe disability or illness and cannot pay for your
own support/care (very few people can), you are legally entitled to receive
Medicaid.

Unfortunately, the default in our current system is for your care to be provided
in an institution - even though in most cases it would cost less money for you
to get services at home. The services this family and many others are seeking
actually might save tax dollars.

Continue to cut these services, and the need for more expensive institutional
care will go up. The phrase "penny wise, pound foolish" comes to mind.

Joanna Cordry

Austin

Cartoon in bad taste

As an Army Vietnam veteran who served with and was associated with members of
the U.S. Marine Corps, I find the Dec. 27 editorial cartoon by John Sherffius
offensive and in very bad taste. Taking a picture from World War II of a
memorable victory by our forces and turning it into a cartoon to promote gays
and lesbians is what I feel is unconscionable and belittling of the men and
women of the Marine Corps.

I would like to know whether Sherffius is a veteran or just a journalist with no
idea what it means to serve your country. While we have men and women serving
and dying in Iraq and Afghanistan, this cartoon is in very poor taste.

Bill Heisler

Marble Falls

Romance

Re: Jan. 2 On TV column "Not a fan of 'Bachelor,' I'll be watching anyway."

Brad Womack can find a bride as a second-chance bachelor if he knows what he's
looking for in a partner and contestants display their true personalities. This
reality show totally explains the divorce rate because mate selections are not
necessarily based on the total package but on appearance and acting ability.

It's difficult to find lasting love among all the fakes and phonies, drama
queens, egomaniacs and self-promoters selected to appear on the show. Many watch
because they believe in romance, especially if it's lacking in their own lives
but they like to see others find it.

Every final choice reflects "can't make up my mind" confusion, but this might be
scripted. DeAnna Pappas and Jenni Croft were winners in the long run because
Brad's doubts allowed them to meet someone else.

Perhaps Brad is ready to settle down and get serious? Producers and viewers hope
so.

Mollie Hejl

Austin

As the world turns

Attention, Austin drivers! Never, never activate your turn signals unless you
are preparing to change lanes or turn the corner. Austin drivers are not
accustomed to seeing blinking turn signals, and to see them without subsequent
action only retards an otherwise very slow learning process.

Bob Ellzey

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 927 words


Texans on food stamps

In Iowa last weekend , Rick Perry said that one in eight Iowans (12.5 percent )
is on food stamps. "That is a testament to the widespread misery created by (the
Obama) administration," he said.

Here's what Perry conveniently left out. According to the Department of
Agriculture, more than 15 percent of Texans are on food stamps, much higher than
in Iowa and higher than the national average, which is just under 15 percent .
Using a statistic that Perry thinks is a good measure of policy, Texas is in
very bad shape and is getting worse fast.

Now imagine that the same policies are used on a national scale. Scary stuff.

Lonny Gorban

Austin

Preservationists' thanks

As East Austin property owners, we are disappointed in your criticism of the
Austin school district's wise action in restoring tax abatements for historic
homes (Aug. 25 editorial, "Bad time for historic tax breaks").

Somehow, you remain fixated on the fact that some west side residents benefit
from the program, while it is clear you did not listen to those of us of modest
means who have given blood, sweat and tears to help save endangered landmarks in
our community. For us, these abatements have helped make life-or-death
differences for landmarks that otherwise would almost certainly have been lost.

We have renewed hope that the program changes now under way will offer new
options for preserving the culture and history of our neighborhoods.

We are deeply grateful to the eight AISD trustees who have the vision to look
beyond current budget challenges to help preserve Austin's history. They deserve
commendation, not criticism.

Larry Butler and Carol Ann Sayle

Cristina Valdes

Raul Aguallo Hernandez

Marion Sanchez

Austin

1925 weather lie?

In the Aug. 27 letters to the editor, Ron McGrath asks what people were doing to
make it so hot in 1925, the year Austin had 69 daily highs of 100 degrees or
higher. Wrong question. The right question is, "What was someone doing in 1925
to set that record?"

No other weather stations in Central Texas reported such a long series of
unusually warm temperatures that summer. And the Austin station had a number of
missed readings as well.

So it's more than likely that someone in 1925 was making up numbers.

And isn't it odd that most of the years that came close to beating that
questionable record have happened since 1998?

Yes, I do believe that it is further evidence of global warming - or, to use the
term developed by Republican pollsters , "climate change."

Cliff Tyllick

Austin

Who Obama's like

I see Mr. John Robey thinks Barack Obama is equal to FDR, Truman and Carter
(Aug. 29 letters). I think there is no way he is equal to FDR or Truman.

Maybe he is equal to Carter, as Carter and Obama are the worst presidents I will
ever see, and I was born during the Hoover administration.

One big difference between Obama and FDR is FDR knew how to help people and our
government. He didn't do it by giving money away. FDR helped those who needed
work through public works programs, such as the WPA and CCC .

Truman may very well have been the best president our country will ever see - a
ranking Obama will never see. But Obama should get credit for trying to convert
our country to socialism; he is working very hard to do that.

Bob Smith

Salado

Perry punch line

Your dislike of Gov. Rick Perry is well documented, what with the almost daily
negative articles and PolitiFact items. The recent PolitiFact article, "Perry's
quip on birthplace ZIP a zinger" (Aug. 27), was the best of all.

It's a joke, son. I think it is time to put PolitiFact on the comic pages where
it belongs.

Monte McCrary

Taylor

Water, not oil

I read where a 1,700-mile oil pipeline extension from Canada to Texas is being
planned. If they want a pipeline, why not make one for water from the flooded
areas around Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Iowa and Missouri? It would give them
another outlet for the water without having to blow up levees and purposely
flood whole towns. It would give us the much-needed water in our reservoirs. And
if the pipe springs a leak it won't contaminate the soil around it. Plus, it's a
little closer than Canada so it would probably cost less.

We really need the water more than oil at the present.

Kathy Tolleson

Austin

Pasta and energy savings

This is a backpacker's trick that saves energy/heat/fuel when you cook pasta.

Using your usual recipe, bring water to a boil. Add the pasta, stir and bring
back to a boil. Cover and turn off the heat. Do not remove the lid until double
the usual cooking time!

I've also cooked potatoes this way .

This technique reduces the heat produced in the kitchen, particularly when
cooking with gas; lessens the AC load; and saves electricity if that is your
heat source. An additional bonus: The water drained from the pot will not be
steaming, so there is less humidity added to the kitchen.

Austin Energy will smile upon you!

So will we all if we can avoid a rolling blackout.

Frank De Groot

Austin

Looking for bigotry

I suspect that Anne Elizabeth Wynn, who sees bigotry and discrimination in
enforcing neighborhood deed restrictions against a Sikh temple being built in a
subdivision (Aug. 27 article, "Uncovering bigotry felt by Sikhs, who shed
trappings of other faiths"), would see bigotry and discrimination in the fact
that traffic signals don't include brown and black lights.

Anyone who buys or builds in a development has the obligation to know, and
comply with, existing deed restrictions. It's a matter of property rights, which
is probably not in Wynn's lexicon, not bigotry .

T.D. Bryan

tdbryan@sbcglobal.net

Austin

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Could drought last till 2020?

BYLINE: Farzad Mashhood AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 598 words


Texas could be in the midst of a drought the history books have never seen,
meaning water planners need to prepare for worse than what they've seen, state
climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon said Thursday.

The current drought could last until 2020, because the region's climate is in
the middle of a 20- to 40-year dry phase, Nielsen-Gammon said.

Water planners, including state agencies and river authorities, have long since
made water plans based on the drought of record, a nearly 10-year dry spell in
the 1940s and 1950s.

"Sooner or later there will be a drought that's worse" (than the drought of
record), Nielsen-Gammon said. "The planning needs to be able to cover the bases
not just for the worst that we've seen but also have a plan going forward in
case conditions become worse than that."

The state's water development board, which conducts long-term water planning,
declined to comment on whether the benchmark should be raised to accommodate
worse droughts than the drought of record.

The Lower Colorado River Authority, Austin's primary water provider, said
through a spokeswoman that it sticks to the water development board's methods.
"If conditions change and there is a new drought of record, we will use that as
the new standard," LCRA spokeswoman Clara Tuma said in an email.

The LCRA, which recently announced a plan that would reduce or eliminate water
to rice farmers if faced with a worsened drought, forecasts the current drought
could be declared the worst on record by spring.

The entire state is in some form of drought, with more than 85 percent in an
exceptional drought, the worst form, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Lake
Travis is at 629.15 feet above mean sea level, more than 35 feet below the
September average of 664.70 feet, with Austin having the driest
October-to-August period on record.

"Basically, we've gone from a period in the '80s and '90s when we had a lot of
rain ... to a dry period that has been around for about 10 years," he said.

In the past decade, Texas has faced several tough years of drought, resulting in
billions of dollars in losses to agriculture. Five of the past seven years,
Nielsen-Gammon said, have been drought years.

However, there is no reliable predictor for long-term drought, he said. The
LCRA's chief meteorologist, Bob Rose, agreed, saying things could change as
early as next year.

"As we get into spring, the La Niña-El Niño thing changes pretty quickly," said
Rose, explaining the expected La Niña pattern in 2012 will be considerably
weaker than this year's.

"We could get a more normal pattern of rain in the springtime," Rose said.

Regardless of whether this current drought will last for the next few months or
almost a decade, Rose and Nielsen-Gammon both said the state should expect a
generally drier climate.

"I think he (Nielsen-Gammon) is on to something that, yeah, we are going to see
more droughts (in the next decade)," Rose said. But, "nobody can predict a
multiyear drought."

Rising global temperatures over the past 30 years could also play a role in
exacerbating a continued drought, Nielsen-Gammon said. As drought continues and
temperatures rise, water on reservoirs evaporate faster and plants need more
water to survive, he said.

This year's drought was estimated to have caused $5.2 billion in agricultural
losses through August.

fmashhood@statesman.com;

445-3972

Covering the drought
 The Statesman continues to chronicle the impact of a historic weather event on
 Central Texas' waterways, agriculture, recreation and business. You can see
more photos of the drought at statesman.com/go/droughtphotos.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bob Metcalfe

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1723 words


Bob Metcalfe , just arrived from Boston, is reconnoitering Austin by foot,
phone, bike and, grudgingly, automobile.

The 64-year-old legendary tech inventor, entrepreneur and pundit has walked from
his new office on the University of Texas campus to keep a lunch appointment at
McCormick & Schmick's downtown. He has ridden his bike over the hills of RM 2222
west of MoPac Boulevard (Loop 1) - once, but never again on that road. "It's
suicidal," he concluded.

He has even driven up to UT's J.J. Pickle Research Campus in North Austin, but
he wishes it were closer to the main campus.

He gave a speech to local entrepreneurs at IBM Corp.'s Austin campus in which he
called for stronger linkages between "town and gown."

He's also had lunch at Whole Foods Market's downtown store with co-CEO John
Mackey , who showed him examples of the company's efforts to constantly improve
its operations.

"John just rolled out the innovation story for me," Metcalfe said.

Metcalfe is the first-ever professor of innovation at UT's Cockrell School of
Engineering . He comes to Austin from Boston, where he lived for the past two
decades as publisher and columnist for InfoWorld and a venture capitalist. He
spent most of the 1970s and 1980s in Silicon Valley, where he rose to fame.

Metcalfe arrived in Austin with the idea of bolstering the tech startup activity
coming out of UT and finding a way to do it "at scale," which means big. Now he
has to figure out how to make that happen.

He doesn't teach his first course until next fall, and he is still exploring
what format that class will take and what niche it will fill. UT, he is
discovering, has lots of classes and programs that revolve around business
startups.

He admires the school's marketing slogan: "What starts here changes the world."

"I am the changes-the-world guy," he says.

Being Metcalfe, one of the towering figures involved in the Internet revolution,
he will do things with his own style, which includes ample quantities of wit,
whimsy, insight and intellectual passion and a fair amount of energy left over
for remembering past feuds.

Metcalfe definitely has been a "changes-the-world" guy. In 1973, as a staff
member at Xerox Corp.'s famed Palo Alto Research Center, he co-invented
Ethernet, which has become the dominant technology for tying computers together
in networks. Then he founded 3Com Corp., which built Ethernet into a huge new
business.

When Metcalfe spoke at IBM at the start of February, he responded to a question
by describing in detail how and why he waged business warfare with IBM in the
1980s and 1990s over competing ideas about how to link computers. Metcalfe was
urging that Ethernet become the dominant industry standard, and IBM was backing
its own idea, called Token Ring.

"For 20 years of my life, IBM was the enemy," he told the crowd, but he
acknowledged that Big Blue has changed considerably since those days.

"I was poking at a wound that is barely healed," he recalled several days after
the talk. "Token Ring has been dead for a long time. It is dead, dead, dead. And
that makes me very happy."

The IBM event was fun, and the audience was receptive and smart.

"It was bridge-building" to the community, Metcalfe said. "I saw five people
there that I hadn't seen in 20 years."

He likes Austin and UT and appreciates the warm welcome, but he suspects that
new conflicts could show up as he goes about his new job.

"It is a very hospitable place," he said with a twinkle in his eye. "I have
found nobody who is evil and nobody who hates me yet.

"I am sure that is going to happen. There is going to be somebody out there who
is out to get me. I just want to make sure it is the right person. You have to
choose your enemies carefully."

That seems to capture a part of Metcalfe - incredibly smart, energetic,
streetwise, creative, insightful and engaging. And also ready and willing to do
combat with whoever lines up against him.

A catalyst for innovation

Engineering Dean Gregory Fenves sees Metcalfe as "a catalyst for the innovation
that is happening in Austin and at the university. He is going to be working
with faculty and students about what are the directions and applications for
technology that have commercial value.

"He is going to help us do a better job of connecting the university to the
Austin and Texas ecosystems, the entrepreneurs and mentors who can work with
faculty and students and move ideas into useful applications.

"And the third thing is: We need capital. Innovation needs ideas and people and
capital. Bob is a venture capitalist, and he will help us there."

Metcalfe has been involved with Polaris Venture Partners in Waltham, Mass.,
since 2001. He remains on the board of five companies that Polaris has invested
in.

But he cautions that he is not in Austin scouting new deals for Polaris. That
would defeat his goal of working and engaging with local venture investors to
become more involved with UT.

Since he has come to town, Metcalfe has learned that there are a lot of programs
at UT that aim to teach and mold would-be entrepreneurs.

He has talked at length with Isaac Barchas , director of UT's Austin Technology
Incubator , and promised to help with some of its programs. He also has had
several talks with Rob Adams, who directs Texas Venture Labs at the McCombs
School of Business. Adams' program involves UT graduate students with startup
companies.

"We are trying to figure out what the synergistic fit is," Adams said. "He is
here for the same reason I am. There is a lot of untapped potential here."

Barchas expects Metcalfe will become a big man on campus and in the community
for commercialization. In the five years that Barchas has been here, he says, UT
has been shifting noticeably toward encouraging more commercialization of its
technical discoveries.

"Bob is in a really good position to be able to define his role for maximum
impact, and that is exactly what he is doing," Barchas said. "He is not coming
here for a retirement job. My impression is he really wants to get things done
and accelerate what is already a good trend at the university."

Metcalfe is hardly a neophyte to academia. He holds a doctorate in computer
science from Harvard, although he has a feud with the university. "They hate
engineers," he said.

He is much fonder of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , where he earned
two bachelor's degrees, in electrical engineering and business. He is a life
trustee at MIT and has been a close observer of and participant in

its vibrant entrepreneurial scene.

His venture firm, Polaris, has worked successfully at helping to commercialize
technical discoveries made at MIT, Harvard and Dartmouth College in New
Hampshire.

Metcalfe expects to stay in his new job at UT for roughly 10 years, but he will
spend his summers in Boston, where he owns a house, and Maine, where he owns a
cabin.

Choosing Austin

His wife, Robyn, who recently earned her doctorate, will join him in Austin,
where she will teach history at UT.

Robyn, who is an avid triathlete, suggested to her husband a few years ago that
they think about moving to a warmer climate because their two children were
grown and in college.

Their early research of potential college towns in warm climates led them to
look more closely at Austin and Los Angeles.

Metcalfe, who was in Austin last summer to talk at National Instruments' NI
World event, arranged to meet with Fenves, and UT's recruiting effort started.

One reason the Metcalfes decided on Austin was Whole Foods. "We are Whole Foods
groupies," he said.

10-year attention span

While Metcalfe figures out how his first course will take shape in the fall, he
also expects to be involved in research and writing projects on innovation.

He already owes a 2,000-word essay to a UT online magazine. The focus of the
essay will be on the ecology of innovation, and he expects it will become the
basis for a keynote speech he will give in Boston to a meeting of the National
Venture Capital Association in April.

"Innovation is an ecology rather than a system because it wasn't designed. It
kind of evolved," he said. "So it is messy, like an ecology, rather than
pristine like a system.

"And it involves fiercely competing teams of the following players: research
professors, graduating students, scaling entrepreneurs, venture capitalists,
strategic partners and early adopters.

"And those are exactly the kind of teams that built the Internet. Cisco Systems
was such a team. And Amazon was such a team. And my own company, 3Com, was such
a team."

"That ecology is what I want to turn my attention to - its functioning and
malfunctioning."

One of the aspects he wants to look at is the downsizing of the venture capital
industry.

"In America, it is going from 1,000 to 500, roughly speaking. It is collapsing
right now. But the numbers of angel investors are on the rise. Angel investors
are important now. They are active, and they attack venture capitalists all the
time. So there is a pendulum there."

He must put more meat on the bones of those early thoughts over the next month.
His deadline for the essay/speech is written boldly on the white board in his UT
office.

He sees plenty of good work ahead as a professor, a job he expects to last about
a decade, which is about the length of each of his four previous careers - as
inventor, business executive, publisher-pundit and venture capitalist.

"I have about a 10-year attention span," he said.

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3662

The Metcalfe file
 Born: April 7, 1946, in Brooklyn, N.Y.
 Education: Two bachelor's degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology; master's and doctoral degrees from Harvard.
 Careers:  Computer researcher; technology entrepreneur and executive;
technology publisher and columnist; venture capitalist; educator
 Claims to fame: In 1973, with David Boggs , invented Ethernet while at Xerox
Corp.'s Palo Alto Research Center.
 In 1979, founded 3Com Corp., a networking equipment maker.
 Family: He and wife Robyn have two grown children.
 Quote: 'I'm an engineer, and I think everyone should be engineers. I have a
feeling that there are probably other life choices that are as valid as that.
But other people should advocate those. I will advocate science and technology,
 particularly engineering. ... It's a great life. Solving problems. Developing
mastery over subjects.'
 From a 2001 interview with an MIT publication



LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sterling's future ends SXSW Interactive austin360.com

BYLINE: Joe Gross AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 1212 words


It's not exactly shocking that Bruce Sterling is closing speaker for SXSW
Interactive, as it's hard to imagine a guy who more embodies Austin as a home
for progressive, literary, forward-thinking intellectuals.

Of course, Sterling doesn't live here anymore - the native Texan moved to
Belgrade, Serbia, several years ago and now lives in Turin, Italy. You might
make your own decline-of-Austin joke here.

Sterling's career is exceptional: He's one of the very few science-fiction
writers to make a sizable impact in several decades in a row. He was a leading
light of the cyberpunk generation in the 1980s with his wildly influential
"Shaper/Mechanist" series and wrote three downright visionary novels in the
1990s ("Heavy Weather," about global climate change, "Holy Fire," about
biotechnology, and "Distraction," about fractured, near-future political
campaigning).

In the 21st century, as the speech of technological (and environmental) change
quickens, Sterling has focused more on design, futurism and, well, speeches to
which everyone into those two things pays attention. His 2002 essay collection
"Tomorrow Now: Envisioning the Next Fifty Years" codified a lot of ideas he had
been playing with in his fiction.

While he continues to produce the occasional short story and the more occasional
novel, it's easy to get a Sterling fix on his blog, Beyond the Beyond, which he
has been writing for Wired magazine since 2003. There he can be found linking to
and discussing everything from Bollywood movies to industrial design (a favorite
topic, especially when wedded to issues of sustainability) to geopolitics. He
recently started donating his literary papers to the Ransom Center at UT, his
alma mater.

As well as anyone, Sterling makes these issues look of a piece, which of course
they are. Technology, interactivity and massive leaps in personal communication
are changing the way the world works at every level - think of the role of
Twitter in journalism, or environmental factors in emerging economies or the
cultural trading that goes on at the person-to-person level every day over the
Internet. These are only the glaringly obvious examples. Sterling is the sort of
fellow who can make a speech that brings it all together and point you in
directions you hadn't thought of before.

SXSW

Blake Mycoskie keynote. In 2006, Arlington native Blake Mycoskie took a trip to
Argentina. When he met children who didn't own shoes, he was inspired to found a
company to help them. Enter Toms (short for "tomorrow"), a for-profit shoe
company with a mission: to give a pair of shoes to a child in need for every
pair of shoes sold. As of 2010, Toms, working with nonprofit organizations, has
donated more than 1 million pairs of shoes. Mycoskie, 33, will deliver his SXSW
Interactive keynote at 2 p.m. today, Ballroom D at the Austin Convention Center,
500 E. Cesar Chavez St. It's open to registered SXSW Interactive attendees and
will live-stream at sxsw.com.

- Peter Mongillo

Festival

Rodeo Austin. The gates open at 11 a.m. today for Austin's annual rodeo.
Tonight's main stage entertainment is Jason Derulo. Full schedule of events,
including cookoffs, competitions, Miss Rodeo Austin, livestock shows and kids
activities, plus ticket information: www.rodeoaustin.com.

MUSIC

Kylesa. The Savannah, Ga., metal band absolutely tore it up at Fun Fun Fun fest
last year. With the Roller, Mammoth Grinder and HOD. 8 p.m. Free. Klub Krucial,
614 E. Sixth St. www.myspace.com/klub

krucial.

- Joe Gross

Mama Said Knock You Out. This all-female hip-hop showcase is a fundraiser for
Mamas of Color Rising's Sankofa Birth Companion Project. Doors at 8 p.m. Victory
Grill, 1104 E. 11th St. $10-$25. mamasofcolorrising.wordpress.com.

Also recommended: Vaz at Trailer Space; Stay Free (Clash tribute band feat.
members of Riverboat Gamblers, Ministry, Lower Class Brats) at Red 7;
Peelander-Z at the Beauty Bar; Big John Bates and the Voodoo Dollz, Flametrick
Subs, Izzy Cox at Beerland; Black Joe Lewis (release party) at the Continental
Club; Surfer Blood at Emo's; Masterson, Future Clouds and Radar, the Vulgar
Boatmen, more at ND; Grass Widow, Thee Oh Sees at the Scoot Inn.

BOOKS

Téa Obreht. The 25-year-old, listed last summer by The New Yorker magazine as
one of the 20 best American fiction writers younger than 40, discusses and signs
her debut novel, "The Tiger's Wife." 7 p.m. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.
472-5050, www.bookpeople.com.

"Fambul Tok" presentation. Photographer Sara Terry, interviewer John Caulker and
writers Libby Hoffman and Ishmeal Beah talk about how an ancient tradition
helped create healing between victims and perpetrators of violence in Sri
Lanka's civil war. The "Fambul Tok" book release coincides with a film of the
same name screening at SXSW. 6 p.m. today. Resistencia Bookstore, 1801-A S.
First St. 416-8885, www.resistenciabooks.com.

ART

"Corridor." In truth, the Butridge Gallery at the Doughtery Arts Center is
nothing but the lobby and hallway of the busy city-run community arts facility.
And so in a playful gesture, Austin artists Debra Broz, Suzanne Koett, Heidi
Landau, Shea Little, Jamie Panzer, Jana Swec, Joe Swec and Jon Windham have
interfered with the practical function of the lobby/gallery by crafting
ambiguous organic forms out of recycled paper that are intended to
simultaneously redefine, impose detours and create an alternative passage into
and through the gallery. Opening reception 6 to 8 p.m. today. Exhibit continues
through March 31. Butridge Gallery, Dougherty Arts Center, 1111 Barton Springs
Road. Free. www.ci.austin.tx.us/dougherty/gallery.htm. 974-4000.

­ ­- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

MUSIC  *  DataPop
Texas musician writes songs to the tune of two Game Boys
 By Patrick Caldwell
SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN
 If you want to sample some of the finest artists the chiptunes movement has to
 offer - including performers from as far afield as China and Sweden - there's
no better place to do it than at Datapop, a free eight-bit music and culture
showcase in its fifth installment this year.
 One of Texas' own rising eight-bit stars, Corpus Christi's Alex Luna, who
performs under the moniker IAYD (I Am Your Destruction), will close out Datapop
 with his hard-driving, Game Boy-based tunes.
 So what's it like being an eight-bit musician in Corpus Christi, far from the
thriving scenes elsewhere?
 "For the longest time I was by myself. I was the only one, or at least the
only one I'm aware of, doing that kind of music in Corpus Christi," says Luna
with a laugh. "It's only been recently, as in the last half of 2010, that other
 people have started making chip music here. In fact, the first show I ever
played was in Fort Worth."
 Luna, 18, played the upright bass in middle school but quickly delved into the
 world of chip music. Using two Nintendo Game Boys running the popular music
software Little Sound DJ, he's crafted four EPs of energetic electronic pop and
 is a fixture at Corpus Christi do-it-yourself performance and recording space
Studio B.
 "I feel like, more and more, people are accepting the Game Boy as an
instrument and not a novelty," says Luna. "People are realizing that it's not
about the fact they're using a Game Boy, it's about the fact that the music
sounds good. I'm seeing a change in the mentality."



LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 879 words


In support of government workers

Re: July 23 column by John E. Sununu, "The nation has a glut of bureaucrats."

Sununu lives in a different world than I do. My problems are not with government
bureaucrats; they are with profit and corporate bureaucrats. I receive good
service from Social Security, IRS and the Park Service (both at the federal and
state levels). I wonder whether Sununu has flown in economy class on most
American airlines recently. Most airlines do not really care about the service
in this particular class. I had surgery in a for-profit hospital and received
almost no nursing care. If my wife had not been there, it would have been very
bad. The decisions of my for-profit health insurance are the same problem.
Certainly, the decisions of the business-friendly Texas governor and Legislature
have not been to my best interests. I will take public bureaucrats any day.
Public service workers need my support in today's political climate.

Buford Farris

Bastrop

Our nation's well-being

Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their country.

In the era in which FDR, Truman and Eisenhower practiced the admonitions of
their culture, their religions and their parents, it was considered an honor and
a duty to make contributions for the well-being of the nation. A few lessons in
history would remind us that the rise of the middle class has actually brought
about a cultural revolution that has not necessarily added to our sense of
responsible citizenship.

Health, education, economic well-being -don't we wish that for all our citizens?
A civilized society is one that strives to practice civility.

A fair tax system requires the rich to pay more. A truly fair system would ask a
little sacrifice from each of us.

Sharon H. Locke

Austin

Perry's travel

Re: July 26 article "DPS goes silent on Perry travel expenses."

Obviously, this is a cover up directed by Gov. Rick Perry to the Department of
Public Services since they have something to hide, namely from the Texas
taxpayers, who are paying for Perry's "security." Now, who's paying for all of
Perry's expenses campaigning all over the U.S. for his possible presidential
bid? The private planes, the hotels and parties - is it the Texas taxpayers,
too?

Roger Joseph

Austin

Construction shutdown

Re: July 23 article "Council now weighing delay on building treatment plant."

Why would anyone with a little common sense want to shut down a major water
plant construction? Once it is shut down, it doesn't get completed in just a few
months after renewed start-up (and it will be some day). Also, you never want to
construct something that is at 100 percent capacity upon completion. With one
plant decommissioned and the other two reaching their life expectancy, it is not
good sense not to proceed with the fourth plant.

As far as "let's just conserve more" is concerned, that is just plain stupidity.
It is like the City Council some years ago that said, "If we don't build any new
highways, they won't come." Well, guess what? They came anyway and you see the
situation we are now in with all of the congested roadways.

Please show just a little common sense and let Plant No. 4 be completed,
especially now with construction prices at an all-time low.

Leo O. Mueller Jr.

Austin

No more praying, please

Gov. Rick Perry and his followers prayed for three days in April for rain to
come to Texas. That was answered with a dramatically worse drought and record
heat. And we know that climate change couldn't be causing it since climate
change is hogwash, according to Perry. Now Perry is back with another prayer day
Saturday. Texas cannot stand any more of these Perry prayer fests.

Greg Ceshker

Dripping Springs

Right-wing extremism

In 2009, a conservative Republican analyst at the Department of Homeland
Security, Daryl Johnson, issued a report providing information to law
enforcement agencies about radical right-wing extremism. Right-wing commentators
and politicians immediately attacked the report, and it was removed from the law
enforcement websites - not because the report was wrong, but because politicians
did not want to acknowledge the existence of right-wing terrorism. (I use the
term "right-wing" instead of "conservative" because true conservatives are not
blind to facts.)

Johnson and most of his analysts no longer work for the department, and it
drastically cut its capability for analyzing non-Islamist domestic terrorism.
Perhaps the murders in Norway will convince right-wing commentators and
politicians that the truth is more important than political correctness.

Michael O. Scheinberg

Rollingwood

Church and state

Whatever happened to the separation of church and state? In the political
environment we are in now, Republican candidates who have presidential
aspirations must now pay homage to evangelical religious leaders to get their
blessings. Rigid conservatives are imposing rigid religious litmus tests on
candidates that stretch the boundaries on the separation of church and state.

Imagine if John F. Kennedy would have said that he was "called to run for
president." What would the Republican Party have said if he had made a trip to
the Vatican during the election or presided over a Catholic-sponsored prayer
meeting?

Times have changed.

Gilberto Mendoza

mendoza.gilberto@att.net

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Vehicle-charging network is nearly ready, utility says

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 642 words


As part of a long-term strategy to displace gasoline-fueled cars, Austin Energy
announced on Wednesday that a network of 103 electric-vehicle charging stations
would be up and running by September.

The federally funded chargers, such as one at the H-E-B store on Brodie Lane ,
will be scattered around town, along with the station already in place at the
downtown Whole Foods. Austin Energy executives hope the nascent network will
help convince potential buyers of electric cars that a trip around town wouldn't
leave them stranded.

The charging stations are part of a broader city initiative to reduce Austin's
reliance on fuels that emit greenhouse gases, which most climate scientists say
contribute to global climate change.

But even as Austin Energy announced that charging stations are coming, officials
acknowledged the utility has dramatically scaled back its electric-vehicle
projections.

Last year, when the city was mapping out its electric-vehicle initiatives, it
projected Austinites would be driving 190,000 electric vehicles by 2020 . Some
would be electric only, while some would be gas-electric hybrids that could be
plugged in at a charging station. The utility shared its bullish projections
with the Electric Power Research Institute this spring, then lowered the
projection to 36,000 vehicles by 2020.

There are now about 50 vehicles in Austin that can be plugged into a charging
station, said Richard Morgan , Austin Energy's Green Building and Emerging
Technologies manager.

"The real goal of the public charging stations is reducing what the industry
calls range anxiety," Morgan said.

The two main plug-in models, the hybrid Chevrolet Volt and all-electric Nissan
Leaf, take hours to fully charge. Because most owners charge them overnight at
home, "the fact is that in most places where (the charging stations) have been
installed, they haven't gotten much use," Morgan said. "They're for topping
off."

The 103 charging stations were paid for by the federal government, which hopes
to stimulate the electric-vehicle market and is a part-owner of General Motors,
which is producing the Volt. Austin Energy contributed $150,000 to the
charging-station installation costs.

Austin Energy will charge $2 per hour to use the stations.

The utility had envisioned the stimulus-funded charging stations as one step in
a much larger program. The utility planned to spend $28 million over the next
five years to promote electric vehicles, mainly by helping homeowners pay for
charger installations and making numerous improvements to the grid. Austin
Energy planned to update small, pole-top transformers to handle the increased
demand that would come with 190,000 electric vehicles, as well as installing
software that would spread demand at night.

But the scaled-back projection came with a scaled-back budget. The city has
budgeted $138,000 for improvements to the grid in the current fiscal year,
Morgan said, with a similar amount going toward installation subsidies. The city
has scrapped the five-year spending plan in favor of more modest year-by-year
budgeting, Morgan said.

The city envisions electric cars as a piece of a much larger carbon-free puzzle,
but for now, they don't present a solution. Austin Energy now gets about a third
of its electricity from coal - a main emitter of greenhouse gases - and a
significant amount from natural gas. Even under one of the nation's most
aggressive green-energy plans, Austin Energy expects to get only 35 percent of
its electricity from renewable sources by 2020.

But Austin Energy still argues that electricity is a better environmental bet
than gasoline. The utility says charging will lead to lower emissions than
filling up with gas, cutting smog-forming nitrogen oxides by 95 percent and
carbon dioxide by 54 percent.

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

(MAP BOX)

Electric vehicle charging stations

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1042 words


Republicans for choice

I went to a yard sale, and there was an antique: A red, white and blue button
with the words "National Republican Coalition For Choice" on it. Imagine my
surprise, to think there was a time when Republicans weren't anti-abortion
extremists and believed women could think for themselves.

Now, anti-abortion is a litmus test to be a Republican presidential candidate,
to be a Republican politician in the "red states," and to be in the tea party
fold.

Mitt Romney, the inevitable Republican presidential nominee was pro-choice once
upon a time, until he realized this was a no win situation for a GOP contender
to hold, so he flip-flopped and became an anti-abortion hardliner.

Ron Lowe

Harlingen

How to fix Social Security

The way to fix the Social Security problem is to have the House and Senate to
vote on taking the Social Security proceeds and put them back into the Social
Security account. They voted to allow the government to use the funds from
Social Security as part of the general fund to support the government under
President Lyndon Baines Johnson. The government " borrowed" the funds and has
never paid any of it back.

Now the government is saying that Social Security needs to be fixed. So let them
vote to stop taking funds from Social Security.

John Robinson

Elgin

Sensible laws and regulations

The Stop Online Piracy Act that U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith is proposing makes sense.
Although impossible to eliminate, online sales of pirated goods should be made
as difficult as possible to protect intellectual property. But why is this
regulation fine, but a few financial regulations that protect bank depositors,
investors and retirement funds are not OK? We now know that bankers gambled away
trillions of dollars of others' money with esoteric instruments that basically
led to socialized losses and privatized profits. Bottom line, we need sensible
laws and regulations like the proposed piracy act and now defunct Glass-Steagall
Act to make capitalism thrive and work meaningfully.

Prabhudev Konana

Austin

Lawyers' sense of humor

Re: Nov. 26 article, "State gives stern reply to court."

Who says lawyers don't have a sense of humor? Here we have the Republican party
trying its deal-level best to disenfranchise as many Democratic - no, wait, make
that "poor" - voters as possible to "prevent" voter fraud, and then the same
group of Republican -no, wait, make that "rich" or "Greg Abbott" - lawyers who
have been making the argument to the federal courts that the durn courts are
flouting the voice of the citizenry. That's rich, but then, so are the lawyers,
and Abbott, and Gov. Rick Perry. If anyone has committed "voter fraud" it would
be the Republican legislators of our otherwise great state.

Larry Wise

Austin

Legal immigration

Re: Nov. 29 letter, "Latino voters."

The author, referencing an earlier article by Ruben Navarrette, stated that the
negative effects on Hispanics had been "a political climate caused by more
anti-immigrant conservatives getting elected." Then he closes with the catch-all
statement, "Republicans who advocate denying immigrants access to jobs, housing,
education, health care, drivers licenses, legal means to become productive
citizens, etc."

The U.S. has a well-established procedure for legally immigrating. Approximately
1 million foreign nationals immigrate each year. Conservatives are against
illegal immigration, not legal. Legal immigrants are vetted by the U.S.
government and then allowed to immigrate. This way, the state and federal
governments know what future needs are.

For the health of the nation, all citizens must be productive and hard working,
and enjoy the fruits of their labor. "Freedom is not free," and our freedom was
paid for before the present-day immigrants arrived.

Jimmie L. Smith

Cedar Park

Coal for solar not a fair trade

Re: Nov. 28 article, "Austin might go west for solar."

Austin Energy's interest in a project to install more solar arrays in west Texas
is another example of the City Council's misguided efforts to save the planet on
the backs of Austin Energy's customers. Their wishful thinking that the cost of
solar power will ever be close to that of coal or nuclear is unrealistic. The
science of silicon just does not support that promise. When our bankrupt federal
government realizes it can no longer subsidize solar energy, as it has
recognized for ethanol, the cost of solar will go up significantly, not down.
Buying solar power from West Texas to replace power from a coal plant in East
Texas isn't going to change air quality in Austin. If the city wants to advocate
for greener power, it should; just don't formulate green policies that place a
disproportionate burden on its citizens and businesses.

Kent Douglass

Austin

What's so bad about flip-flopping?

Re: Nov. 29 article, "Romney changes views on abortion."

Frankly, I am getting tired of reading condemnations of politicians who have
"flip-flopped" on issues. Whether I agree on his current view is unimportant.
What is important is that he changed his stance. When is it wrong to change your
mind? Everyone has the right to re-evaluate a position and adjust accordingly.

Frankly, I want a politician who has the insight to review a stance. I want
someone who reviews the situation and adjusts accordingly. Knowing that change
is necessary and then making that change is exactly what I want in a leader. If
politicians fear making adjustments to their points of view for political
expediency, we are saddled with their old ideas, old opinions and unsuccessful
approaches. By encouraging re-evaluation, thought and courage, the media would
do a great service both to the political system as well as the country at large.

David S. Wishnew

Austin

Share your holiday memories
 Perhaps the most enduring of life's memories are those of the Christmas
season. Good or bad, holiday memories are lodged into our psyches. We invite
readers to send us their memories of Christmases past for a special feature to
be published Dec. 24. Submissions should be limited to 150 words each and sent
to letters@statesman.com We welcome your photos but cannot guarantee their
return. Deadline for submissions is Dec. 14. We look forward to sharing those
memories and extend our best wishes for a safe and happy holiday season.



LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

POLITIFACTTEXAS

BYLINE: Compiled by the American-Statesman PolitiFact Texas team

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 424 words


These items are explained at greater length, with detailed source lists, on our
website, www.politifacttexas.com.

MIKE VILLARREAL

Statement: Before Rick Perry became governor, 'only 4 percent of our total labor
force was a minimum wage job. " Today, that number has more than doubled (to)
9.5 percent.'

Half True

The Democratic state representative from San Antonio was slightly off in his
time frame. The 4 percent figure (actually, it was 4.2 percent) came in 2001,
Perry's first full year as governor. In 2000, before Perry took office, Texas'
proportion of minimum-wage jobs stood at 5.8 percent. And Villarreal overstepped
when he said that proportion applies to "our total labor force" - it includes
only workers who are paid hourly, as opposed to salaried or on commission or on
contract.

RICK PERRY

Statement: Scientists are 'questioning the original idea that manmade global
warming is what is causing the climate to change. " (It is) more and more being
put into question.'

False

The governor made headlines with this statement from his first week on the
presidential campaign trail. He contends that skepticism of manmade global
warming is growing among scientists, but we found that's not the case. Leading
groups of scientists worldwide have said repeatedly that "warming of the climate
is unequivocal" and that such change over the past 50 years "is due primarily to
human-induced emissions." The scientists who do question these findings are in
the minority and even they do not claim that humans are making no contribution
to rising temperatures.

MARTIN FROST

Statement: Rick Perry flip-flopped on gay marriage by first saying it was a
states' rights issue and then saying he was in favor of a federal constitutional
amendment banning gay marriage.

Mostly False

The former Democratic congressman from Texas said that Perry flipped positions
after saying that gay marriage in New York is "their business and that's fine
with me." After some criticism, Perry said that he had been referring to a
state's right to make that call. "Obviously, gay marriage is not fine with me,"
he said. "My stance hasn't changed." The record supports him: Perry has voiced
his opposition to gay marriage many times over the years.

SUSAN COMBS

Position: On abortion rights

Full Flop

The state agriculture commissioner has a long history of being a Republican
officeholder who supports abortion rights and the Roe vs. Wade decision. Until
now: "Twenty years ago, I was pro-choice " because I had concerns about the role
of government," she said recently. "I was wrong."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Blunt, bold proposal imagines Austin's growth over 30 years

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1001 words


After two years of debates and committee meetings, Austin officials have
unveiled a broad vision for growth that condemns traditional suburban
development and is garnering both praise and skepticism.

The proposed, 197-page "comprehensive plan" would be the city's official
philosophy for managing a booming population and the new housing, businesses,
shops and restaurants that will come with it. The plan, dubbed Imagine Austin,
envisions mixed-use development along corridors serviced by transit and new
centers of housing and commerce miles north and south of downtown.

The plan is intended to guide every city decision over the next three decades,
from where to allow construction to how much to collect in taxes to managing the
economy.

It is unusually blunt for a municipal document. It talks of rectifying past
mistakes. It plans around big-ticket initiatives such as urban rail or
significantly expanded bus service.

And it excoriates the city's rapid suburban growth, stating that the pattern of
the past 60 years came "at a troubling price in terms of social segregation and
isolation, (diminished) public health, air and water quality, loss of natural
open space and agricultural lands, and climate change " (while) driving up the
public costs for roads, water lines and other infrastructure that must be
continually extended to far-flung new development."

The document assumes that 700,000 more people will move into the city over the
next 30 years, creating civic pressures the city should address. The plan was
compiled by the city planning staff, which distilled input from the general
public and a sometimes quarrelsome, 31-member citizen committee appointed by the
City Council.

More public meetings are coming. The first is at 10 a.m. Saturday, a "kickoff
party" with music at the George Washington Carver Museum & Cultural Center in
East Austin.

The city will continue taking public input and could make changes until spring,
when the City Council is scheduled to adopt a final plan.

After that, the city staff will spend another year writing the ordinances
necessary to eventually make the plan a reality.

"We think this is a vision that reflects what the public wants for this city,"
said Garner Stoll, the city planner overseeing the comprehensive plan.

But the plan, although generally in line with Austin's environmental vibe,
proposes a philosophy that Central City neighborhoods have become increasingly
leery of over the past decade, associating it with expensive condominium towers
and a rising cost of living.

The plan calls for a range of housing options - not just apartments and condos -
that would be located closer to where people shop and work, Stoll said.

"It's probably going to involve more shared walls," Stoll said. "But we're not
going to see an instant reversal" in where people want to live.

Some say the plan is unrealistic.

Ed Wendler Jr., a developer, noted that most apartment and condominium units are
smaller than most families prefer. And influential neighborhood activists,
worried about bearing the brunt of growth, could make even those difficult to
build along the city-core thoroughfares such as North Lamar Boulevard, South
Congress Avenue and Springdale Road, as envisioned in the plan.

That would leave the city's fringes as the logical place for most growth to
happen, Wendler said.

"Families will not stop wanting that lifestyle," he said. "All (Imagine Austin)
is going to do is push families out to Round Rock, Pflugerville, Manor, Kyle,
Buda or the unincorporated areas around Austin. There is a lot of reality that
will get in the way of this vision."

Imagine Austin touts the city's natural beauty, relatively resilient economy,
music scene and an overall quality of life.

But the document also notes that Austin has among the nation's worst traffic
congestion, an increasingly strained water supply, rising housing costs, a
reliance on low-wage jobs that don't keep pace with the rising cost of living,
and "a sense of loss about a simpler Austin of the past."

"Most troubling," the plan states, "at least 20 percent of our children live in
poverty, go to bed hungry, go without health insurance and adequate health care,
and fail to graduate from high school."

Imagine Austin also notes that "poverty and people of color both are
concentrated east" of Interstate 35 - the lingering result of a comprehensive
plan adopted in the 1920s that made apartheid official city policy at the time.

Imagine Austin addresses most every issue of governance in general terms. For
instance, it calls for more robust partnerships between the city, businesses,
schools and nonprofits to create more job-training programs.

It also cautions that government should not work at cross-purposes with the
market. It calls for the city to use its two main powers - zoning and taxation -
to encourage densely packed, walkable clusters of homes and businesses along
transit lines, some still planned, but far from reality.

Several of those hubs are along the proposed Lone Star Rail District line, which
was created by the state Legislature in 1997 to manage a San
Antonio-to-Georgetown commuter route that has not yet materialized.

Whether city leaders have the political will to carry out Imagine Austin remains
an open question.

The last such comprehensive plan, passed in phases in the 1970s and updated in
the early 1980s, was promptly left on a shelf to gather dust. Instead, the city
adopted numerous smaller-scale plans, from those charting the course of
individual neighborhoods to one governing the city electric utility's 10-year
environmental goals.

But even those plans were sometimes ignored in favor of case-by-case
decision-making.

Dave Sullivan, chairman of the city's Planning Commission, said Imagine Austin
will not be allowed to molder because the city charter now requires it to be
reviewed every year and officially updated every five years.

"If we made mistakes" in creating it, Sullivan said, "we can correct them. It's
not a be-all, end-all."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

New month may give Perry chance to get spark back campaign: Debate performances
have hurt Perry, but race remains unsettled

BYLINE: Jason Embry AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1082 words


Gov. Rick Perry leapt to the top of national polls within days of announcing his
presidential candidacy in August. But September brought several shaky debate
performances and a barrage of criticism from fellow Republican candidates,
prompting those poll numbers to slide.

It's October, and Perry, who has focused much of his time on fundraising in the
past couple of weeks, is looking to regain momentum in a fluid GOP race. He
opened a new line of criticism Friday on Mitt Romney, his chief GOP rival, and
will make four stops around New Hampshire today .

"It takes awhile to learn how to run for president," said David Woodard, a
Republican consultant in South Carolina who teaches at Clemson University.
"Romney has run for president before, so I'm not surprised he's doing it a
little better, and he wasn't all that great the first time around. Plus, Perry
began with such high expectations that it would be almost impossible for him to
meet them."

And he's not meeting them, according to a series of polls released this week.

A Survey USA poll released Thursday showed Perry in third place among Florida
Republicans with 13 percent. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor took
first with 27 percent, and former Godfather's Pizza executive Herman Cain
trailed close behind at 25 percent.

It was one of several polls that showed Perry is no longer the front-runner. A
national Fox News poll put Romney at 23 percent, Perry at 19 percent and Cain at
17 percent. The Romney-Perry gap is negligible, but the poll was significant
because it showed Perry falling 10 points since the Fox poll in August. An
American Research Group poll showed Romney leading in Iowa, the site of the
first caucuses and a place Perry should play well with farmers and the state's
large bloc of social conservatives.

The polls suggest criticisms of Perry in Republican debates - specifically,
those that highlighted his signature on a law allowing the children of some
illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition at colleges and universities - have
weakened him.

Perry has thrown increasingly sharp elbows at Romney all week, and he continued
Friday, arguing that Romney and President Barack Obama are cut from the same
ideological cloth.

In a speech at the Georgia Public Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank,
Perry discussed his record on health care and the environment. He offered few
policy proposals, instead focusing on his record as Texas governor for 10 years,
criticizing Obama, hitting Romney's health care law and opening a more
aggressive line of attack on Romney's record on climate change.

"As Republican voters decide who is best suited to lead this country in a new
direction by stopping the spending spree and scrapping Obamacare, I am confident
they will choose a nominee who has governed on conservative principles, not one
whose health care policies paved the way for Obamacare," Perry said.

He also hit Romney on the environment, accusing him of supporting a
cap-and-trade system to limit carbon emissions.

"In Texas, we've cleaned the air while creating jobs and adding millions in
population. Another state - Massachusetts - was among the first states to
implement its own cap-and-trade program which included limits on carbon
emissions for power plants," Perry said in his speech.

The Romney campaign noted that the emissions program Perry mentioned was signed
into law by Democratic Gov. Deval Patrick after Romney left office.

"Gov. Perry is desperate to shift attention away from his liberal policies that
encourage illegal immigration," said Romney spokesman Ryan Williams. "His
repeated use of distortions and fabrications on the campaign trail shows that
Rick Perry can't be trusted to tell the truth."

Perry talked about his Texas record, Romney and Obama, but he has still offered
few details about the national policies he would push as president.

"The governor has made it clear what his priorities for our nation are,
particularly his vision to get America working again, and specific proposals
will be rolled out in the coming months," Perry spokeswoman Catherine Frazier
said Friday.

Also this week, Perry walked back his suggestion in the last debate that it is
heartless to oppose the Texas tuition policy for immigrants.

"I was probably a bit overpassionate by using that word, and it was
inappropriate," Perry said.

Friday was the final day of the third-quarter fundraising period for
presidential candidates. Perry kept an aggressive fundraising schedule last
month and is likely to show in coming days he can pay for a top-tier campaign.
Such fundraising strength could attract supporters away from lower-profile
candidates such as Cain and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum.

Washington-based Republican strategist Rich Galen, who is not working for a
presidential candidate, said Perry could change the campaign storyline by
spending some of that money on television advertising.

"The reason that everybody hates debates is because they are the antithesis of
what you try to do in a campaign," Galen said. "You try to control as much as
you can, and anything you do, you want to have the highest return and the lowest
possible risk. Debates are the opposite of that, and the model for all that is
paid advertising."

The next GOP debate is Oct. 11 in New Hampshire, giving Perry some extra time to
prepare. He could be in a good position, because expectations for his debate
performances are now so low.

But there could be a new face onstage by the time that debate arrives. Just as
Perry shook up the GOP field when he announced his candidacy in August, it could
soon shake again, because New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is said to be
considering making a late entry into the field. Calls for Christie to join the
race from top GOP donors and party elders have been intensifying.

"The most popular guy in the stadium is always the backup quarterback," Galen
said. "He hasn't thrown an interception or dropped any snaps."

But for now, even though he has slipped, Perry remains a top-tier candidate for
the GOP nomination. Woodard, the South Carolina GOP operative, said he still
thinks Perry is the favorite in that early-primary state.

"We've got a Mormon " who was governor of Massachusetts versus a guy from Texas
who says 'y'all' and 'howdy.'" Woodard said. "It's still, culturally, going to
be real hard for (Michele) Bachmann or Romney or someone like that to knock
Perry out here in South Carolina."

jembry@statesman.com; 445-3572

Additional material from The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Money not main goal in business tax changes

BYLINE: Kate Alexander AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 584 words


Fixing the state's main business tax got a little easier after the Texas Supreme
Court ruled late Monday that the tax meets constitutional muster.

But those fixes might not translate to more money in state coffers, legislators
said.

Overhauled in 2006, the franchise tax was the centerpiece of the school finance
package and was supposed to help offset the cost of local school property tax
cuts.

It has consistently failed to meet early expectations. The portion of the tax
dedicated to school property tax relief was supposed to generate almost $4
billion in 2011, according to initial projections. Instead, it fell $2.7 billion
short and contributed to the state's budget hole.

Even though some lawmakers expect the tax collections to improve as the economy
picks up, addressing the shortfall is not the priority of lawmakers as they
prepare to change the tax again in 2013.

This time, the focus will be on rectifying some well-known disparities in how
the tax affects different kinds of businesses.

"It allows us to try to bring consistency to areas where there are
inconsistencies," said state Rep. John Otto , R-Dayton , an accountant and a
member of the House committee that is reviewing the tax.

Some of those inconsistencies stem from lawmakers' efforts in 2006 to avoid the
appearance of an income tax with the revised franchise tax.

The Supreme Court decision this week made clear that an income tax on businesses
does not run afoul of the state constitution, which requires voter approval
before a personal income tax may be imposed.

So now lawmakers are free to simplify the franchise tax.

Business groups welcome the tax reform but say they should not be expected to
pay more than they already do.

"We're pulling the wagon," said Bill Hammond, president of the Texas Association
of Business.

Businesses in Texas pay 60 percent of all state and local taxes - sales,
property, franchise and more, Hammond said. Nationally, the average is 42
percent.

The Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, a business-backed think tank,
reported earlier this fall that Texas' business tax would be among the highest
in the country if it had generated what had been projected in 2006. Instead, the
levy ranks slightly higher than average.

The business tax is a major source of revenue needed to pay for basic state
functions, second only to the sales tax. Collections from both taxes slumped
along with the economy in recent years, forcing lawmakers to cut state spending
earlier this year to balance the budget.

Going forward, Otto said, lawmakers must be sensitive to how changes to the
business tax affect the overall business climate.

"There should be a certain amount of revenue that the franchise tax can raise
without being a hindrance to business, where we can remain competitive with
other states," Otto said.

State Rep. Mike Villarreal , D-San Antonio, said legislators certainly need to
focus on simplifying the tax but must also consider revamping it so that it
grows with the economy.

"Before we make promises to special interest groups on what their tax bill
should be, we first need to determine how much we need to raise to support a
state that is as large and as fast-growing as ours is," said Villarreal, also a
member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which is undertaking the tax
reform effort.

"Pencil out how much that costs, and then figure out the fairest way of raising
the money to meet those needs," he said.

kalexander@statesman.com; 445-3618

(GRAPHIC BOX: SEE MICROFILM)

Business tax collections

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 26, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 809 words


AUSTIN

Mother still missing after a year

Police said Friday that they continue to investigate the case of Julie Ann
Gonzalez, who was reported missing a year ago Sunday.

Officials said they have gathered information about her disappearance and that
they consider Gonzalez's estranged husband, George De La Cruz, a person of
interest. De La Cruz "has been interviewed in the past but is currently not
cooperating with the investigation," police said in a statement.

Gonzalez's family is planning a prayer vigil at noon today on the south lawn of
the Capitol.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Austin police homicide tip line at
512-477-3588.

Pitonyak appeal dismissed

The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals has dismissed the latest appeal of Colton
Pitonyak, who is serving a 55-year murder sentence in the 2005 West Campus
slaying of 21-year-old Jennifer Cave.

In dismissing Pitonyak's application for writ of habeas corpus last week, the
court did not issue a written order but noted that the dismissal came under a
section of Texas law that limits defendants' appeals.

In his recent appeal, Pitonyak's lawyers argued that it was Laura Ashley Hall
who killed Cave, whose dismembered body was found in Pitonyak's bathtub. Hall
was convicted of tampering with evidence and hindering apprehension in the case
and is serving 10 years in prison.

Nonprofit bookstore closing shop

Books Beyond Borders is having a

going-out-of-business sale this weekend at its warehouse at 618C Tillery St. in
East Austin. All books, records and videotapes are $1.

Since 2004, the nonprofit group has sent more than 20,000 children's books to
Guyana and Nicaragua and 4,000 pounds of school supplies to Nicaragua, according
to a news release.

It also donated $75,000 to Project Schoolhouse to build four new schools and two
new water systems, and establish scholarships for three rural students in
Nicaragua.

The group estimates that in 2010 it recycled more than 500 tons of books that
may have otherwise ended up in landfills. It also recycles books and media for
the City of Austin library system.

Lights going out for Earth Hour

If you're downtown tonight, don't worry if the lights at the Frost Bank Tower go
out - they're supposed to.

The tower and several other places around Austin will observe Earth Hour, a
worldwide event that started in 2007 and is intended to raise awareness of
energy conservation and global climate change. From 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. in each
time zone around the world, those using electricity are encouraged to switch it
off.

In Austin, the city government, the University of Texas and other groups will
shut off the lights, as will numerous buildings, including the Driskill Hotel,
the UT Tower and the Capitol (although it will keep what it considers essential
lighting switched on).

WEST LAKE HILLS

City makes LCRA offer for plant

The City of West Lake Hills has offered the Lower Colorado River Authority $11.8
million for a wastewater treatment system.

The LCRA built the 400-customer system in 2001 as an improvement over individual
septic systems. In November, the river authority announced it would sell the
West Lake Hills system, along with 30-odd other small utilities.

The river authority is asking $17.2 million for the West Lake Hills system and
appears unlikely to take the West Lake offer: In December the LCRA rejected a
$16.8 million offer by the city. West Lake Hills subsequently hired a consultant
that valued the system at $11.8 million.

"The City is considering a range of options available to it in the event that
the LCRA rejects the offer, including the City's power of eminent domain," the
city said in a statement Friday.

LEANDER

Services set for city manager

Funeral arrangements have been set for Leander City Manager Anthony "Biff"
Johnson, who died Thursday of apparent cardiac arrest, officials said.

Funeral services will be held at 10 a.m. Tuesday at New Hope Baptist Church, 200
W. New Hope Drive in Cedar Park, an official said. Burial will be held at 4 p.m.
at the Four Mile Lutheran Church in Prairieville, which is east of Dallas, the
official said.

Johnson had been the Leander city manager since 2004.

HAYS COUNTY

Skull found in Blanco River

Hays County authorities are investigating a skull found by kids fishing in the
Blanco River last weekend, the San Marcos Daily Record reported this week.

The skull, which has not been identified, has been sent off for testing, Hays
County sheriff's deputy Laurie Bain told the newspaper.

"Assuming it is human, there are no details on age or sex," she told the
newspaper. She did not specify where the skull was discovered, it said.

In 2004, Laurie Pineda, 24, was swept away by the swollen Blanco River after she
drove into it at night at a low-water crossing along Post Road about five miles
northeast of San Marcos. Her body was never found. Authorities have not linked
the skull to Pineda.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Austin Democrats could get nuttier without Doggett

BYLINE: JOHN KELSO AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 480 words


It would be an injustice if Texas Republican lawmakers changed the state's
congressional district map so U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett couldn't get re-elected.

In fact, it would lead to a "no taxation without representation" situation for
aging hippie-loaded Travis County, but not in the way people usually think of
the cliché definition of no taxation without representation.

It could mean Austin Democrats would have no representative in the U.S. House to
raise their taxes. And as we all know, no taxes being raised just drives
Democrats nuts.

Ask a Republican if he wants his taxes raised, and he'll charge you with
assault. Ask an Austin Democrat the same thing, and he'll write a check to the
Salvation Army. (Ask a Republican what his carbon footprint is, and he'll ask,
"Does that come in a size 11?" But that's another story.)

Anyway, here's the deal. Travis County is represented by Democrat Doggett, and
Republicans Lamar Smith and Michael McCaul . Smith is a San Antonio guy so he
may not know where Dirty's is. What kind of representation for Austin is that?
Either way, being Republicans, you know those two big-government-hating
tightwads will never raise taxes high enough to suit Travis County's
ponytailed-lawyerin', Whole Foods salad bar-lunchin', vegan-sproutin',
climate-change moanin', bong-polishin', Barton Springs-worshippin', dog
park-attendin', Michael Moore-fawnin' Democrats.

And this is a real concern. The Texas Legislature is gearing up right this
minute to redo the Texas voting district map.

And though the word is the GOP may add a fourth district in Travis County for a
Democrat, there's the concern that Republicans might redo the map to make it
tough for Doggett to keep his job. Heck, they already tried it a few years back
when they gave Doggett a new district that ran from Austin to the Rio Grande
Valley.

Add to it that Gov. Rick Perry doesn't exactly love Doggett for the way Doggett
pushed legislation to hold back more than $800 million in federal tax money for
Texas schools, because he wanted a promise it would be used for schools, and you
get the picture.

Do you realize how guilty Austin Democrats will feel if they're left without a
representative in Congress, and they aren't having their pants taxed off? If
Doggett gets the old heave-ho, do you know what that means?

It means that Austin Democrats will have to hand even more money out the car
window to street people at major intersections, to keep from feeling elitist,
greedy and uncaring.

And speaking of uncaring, think of all the counseling Democrats will need to go
in for if they're left to struggle mentally with lower tax bills. Nobody in
Travis County wants that, except the occasional Cat Mountain GOPer.

We should take this matter to the Supreme Court before it becomes a reality.

John Kelso's column appears on Fridays and Sundays. Contact him at 445-3606 or
jkelso@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Does Perry deserve all credit for state's resilient economy?

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2169 words


Lured to Texas by reports of a resurging economy, law school graduate Ross
Fishbein packed his belongings in his 2007 Nissan Sentra last month and headed
south from his native New Hampshire to Austin.

"I had never been to Texas," said Fishbein, 27, who is staying with friends
while he looks for work in business, government or law. "It seemed like Austin
was at the top of the list for jobs."

Fishbein is not alone. People moving to Texas accounted for almost half of the
4.2 million new Texans since 2000, a 20 percent increase that means more people
are demanding more goods and services, a kind of self-generating economic
engine. And that influx is not just people working in low-skilled jobs. Texas is
attracting more college graduates each year than the state's universities
graduate.

As Gov. Rick Perry's flirtation with running for president puts the Texas
economy under a microscope, there's no question jobs would be Perry's calling
card in a national campaign focused on the economy. The state's longest-serving
governor can say people are voting with their feet. But what do people like
Fishbein find once they are here? And how much credit can Perry take for the
state's economy?

Most people know of Texas' reputation for creating jobs - the cornerstone of
Perry's pitch that limited government, less regulation and low taxes are the
tonic for what ails the nation. Yet almost half of the state's job growth the
past two years was led by education, health care and government, the sectors of
the economy that will now take a hit as federal stimulus money runs out and the
Legislature's 8 percent cut in state spending translates into thousands of
layoffs among state workers and teachers in the coming weeks.

Also, Texas is tied with Mississippi as the nation's leaders in minimum wage
jobs. And conservatives argue that Texas can do more to lower its tax burden on
businesses, which is higher than the national average and states such as
California and Massachusetts that have a personal income tax.

That said, experts agree that Texas, with its 10 million-plus workforce, is
adding more jobs than other states. They don't always agree on the fairest way
to report Texas' proportion of the nation's job growth since the recession ended
officially in June 2009. The number ranges from a third to nearly half, a
significant portion to be sure. And in raw numbers, Texas has no peer as it
leads the nation through a slow recovery.

The state's economy added about 282,300 jobs from June 2009 through April,
according to an analyis by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. The state also
lost 45,500 jobs during that period.

Job gains and losses, however, did not fall equally across the Texas economy the
past two years. Construction, manufacturing and information sectors lost jobs
overall. Education and health services led in job creation (32 percent of all
jobs added), followed by professional and business services (23 percent),
petroleum (18 percent) and government (12 percent). Other industry sectors,
ranging from utilities to hospitality, had smaller job gains.

Pia Orrenius, a Dallas Fed economist, explained Texas' resiliency this way:

"The state has some natural advantages, including energy, Gulf ports and
proximity to Mexico, and a young and rapidly growing population," she said. "But
the state also has business-friendly policies. The state attracts businesses due
to its low cost of doing business and attracts people due to its relatively low
tax burden and low cost of living."

Economists disagree on how much credit Perry deserves for the state's recovery,
but they agree his economic policies are a continuation of a long-standing Texas
tradition.

"As for our reputation as a low-tax, low-service state, that's always been true,
ever since the Republic," said James Galbraith, a professor at the Lyndon B.
Johnson School of Public Affairs. "Gov. Perry did not inherit a high-tax,
high-service state and transform it."

Galbraith said other economic factors, not Perry, are driving the Texas economy:
"He has no influence that I'm aware of over geology, the oil price, immigration
or capital inflow."

On the other hand, Roger Meiners, economics professor at the University of Texas
at Arlington, credits Perry for pressuring the Legislature to keep taxes and
spending low while continuing a business-friendly environment.

"Overall, Gov. Perry has done a solid job," Meiners said. "How that relates to
possible presidential ability is less clear."

Meiners said Perry did not inherit the "terrible" problems other states'
governors faced during the recession: "He had a stronger base to build on and
has not had to promote 'radical' changes in policies as some other governors
have done."

Texas sidestepped the worst of the housing crisis compared with California,
Florida and Nevada. In 1997, Texas was the last state to let homeowners tap
their home equity, but consumer groups insisted on limits that made it harder to
use a home's equity like an ATM. At the time, Perry was the agriculture
commissioner and not a leader in that debate.

In addition, Texas, propped up by energy prices and a better housing market,
spent less time in recession compared with the rest of the nation. Texas kept
adding jobs as states such as California and Florida fell into recession as
early as the end of 2007. Still, Texas eventually lost 241,000 jobs - about 3.2
percent of the national job loss, according to the Dallas Fed.

Discouraging job data

Despite Texas' rebound, not all news is good on the job front.

The state's unemployment rate of 8 percent compares favorably with the national
rate of 9.2 percent, but Texas' rate has stubbornly stuck at or above that level
since September 2009.

In May, some 985,656 Texans were unemployed, virtually unchanged from a year
ago, according to the Texas Workforce Commission. Texas accounted for about 1 of
every 14 jobless Americans in May.

And Perry's critics question the kind of jobs being created in the state.

Texas and Mississippi are tied, at 9.5 percent, for the highest proportion of
hourly workers earning at or less than the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per
hour.

According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 550,000 Texans earned no more
than the minimum wage in 2010, and the number of Texas workers earning the
federal minimum wage or less was greater than the totals for California, Florida
and Illinois combined.

Lori Taylor, associate professor in the Bush School of Government and Public
Service at Texas A&M University, cited these reasons for Texas' lower wages: a
younger, less educated workforce and a lower cost of living.

The state's workforce will age, but the proportion of adults without a high
school degree is projected to increase from 12 percent today to 30 percent in
2040 if current trends continue, according to the state comptroller's TexasWorks
study in 2008. That study of the state's future workforce predicts another 30
percent of the 2040 labor force will have only a high school diploma and no
training for a high-tech economy.

That has to change, Taylor said.

But she said the biggest factor in lower wages today is the state's lower cost
of living, particularly housing and taxes.

In 2009, the $125,800 median value of homes ranked Texas 40th in the nation.
Likewise, rents are below the national median.

Also, Texas boasts of low taxes. Without a personal income tax, the average
Texan spends 7.9 percent of his income on state and local taxes, compared with
9.8 percent nationally, according to the Tax Foundation, a D.C. research group.

That 7.9 percent is up from 7.1 percent when Perry began as governor a decade
ago. But only five states (Alaska, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee and Wyoming)
have lower tax burdens.

"You can have a middle-class lifestyle at a lower wage in Texas," Taylor said.

Burden on businesses

Yet the lack of a personal income tax also means the state's tax burden falls
more heavily on businesses.

Dale Craymer, president of the Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, met
earlier this year with a delegation of California lawmakers looking to learn
from Texas policymakers.

"Texas is not a low tax state for businesses because we rely so much on property
and sales taxes," Craymer said. "The California delegation was kind of in shock.
Our tax numbers are not that much different."

According to the Council on State Taxation, a business group, the state's tax
burden on business was 4.9 percent of the gross state product in 2009, which was
higher than North Carolina, Massachusetts, Illinois, California and the national
average.

Bill Peacock, an economist with the conservtive Texas Public Policy Foundation,
agrees that business taxes are too high, but he said Texas remains a low tax
state: "CEOs make decisions to come to Texas not just on the taxes their
businesses pay, but also on the taxes they pay."

Entrepreneurial culture

Perry gets a lot of attention touting Texas as a business-friendly state.

It is hard to quantify some elements of a state's business climate, but the
national news media, from CEO magazine to CNBC, routinely rank Texas at or near
the top on their lists of the best places to do business. Until this year, Texas
could boast that it was the corporate home to more Fortune 500 companies than
other states, but CNBC noted that the state slipped from the top spot this year.

The regulatory and litigation climate is also a factor in creating jobs.

Perry has been a supporter of limits on litigation, but the U.S. tort reform
index ranks Texas only 18th-best in the country. Alaska is judged the best.

On the regulatory front, the headlines go to Perry's clashes with the federal
Environmental Protection Agency over clean air issues. But industries as varied
as chain restaurants and windmill farms cite the state's easier permitting
approach as pluses to locating here.

Craymer contrasts Texas and California.

"We're like two restaurants. We're serving the same food, but we have better
service," he said. "Their waiters are rude."

John Sibley Butler, a management professor at UT's McCombs School of Business,
said Perry understands entrepreneurs.

"We've always understood that government provides the infrastructure to let the
entrepreneurs go crazy," Butler said. "No one from the state said, 'Stop.' They
said, 'How can we do better?'"

Cuts questioned

At Perry's urging, the Legislature, responding to lower tax revenue because of
the recession, chose this year to reduce spending rather than increase taxes.
Lawmakers cut $4 billion that public schools typically would have gotten and $1
billion from higher education.

Though Perry has enjoyed broad business support, some business leaders
questioned those cuts.

"It doesn't take a CEO to know that if something is important to your future,
you invest in it," said Ed Whitacre, former chief executive of AT&T and General
Motors, in a television ad for an education advocacy group called Raise Your
Hand Texas.

Perry's critics worry about the state's future in education and job training,
but its ability to attract out-of-state college graduates is offsetting some of
the immediate impact.

Every year from 2006 through 2008, the last years measured, almost 172,000
college graduates moved to Texas, according to the state demographer. (Texas'
four-year institutions graduated 130,000 to 140,000 each of those years.)

They came when their companies moved or expanded here or, like Fishbein, came
looking for a job and a better life. Fishbein, educated at Brandeis University
in the Boston area, got his law degree from the University of Arizona.

"Someone else is paying for these kids' education," said Daniel Hamermesh, an
economics professor at UT. "Then they come here to work."

Fishbein, who had worked as a political fundraiser, said he had expected a job
offer from a large Boston law firm.

Then the recession intervened.

"2010 was a lost year for my class," he said.

He expanded his job search to positions in business or government along the East
Coast, but he said there were too many applicants chasing too few jobs.

"I also realized it would cost too much to live on a nonlawyer's beginning
salary," he said.

After a month in Austin, Fishbein has a cellphone with a 512 area code and a
part-time consulting gig as he looks for permanent employment. Come winter, when
Perry might be pressing flesh in New Hampshire, Fishbein said he hopes to be
basking in a warm Austin sun and a bright future.

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617

(GRAPHIC BOXES: SEE MICROFILM)

Employment increases

Texas is a low-tax state for individuals . . .

. . . but the tax burden for business is higher than the U.S. average

About this story: This is the latest in an occasional series examining how Rick
 Perry's record as Texas governor could affect a presidential bid, should he
run. Laylan Copelin has covered state and national politics for the
American-Statesman since 1982, reporting on dozens of election contests,
including the presidential campaigns of Texans George H.W. Bush and George W.
Bush. He has focused on business issues in state government since March 2010.



LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Our log cabin in New Mexico is a retreat to beat the heat

BYLINE: JOHN KELSO AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 528 words


ANGEL FIRE, N.M. - I don't know if you can run away from climate change. But
we're giving it our best shot.

My wife, Kay, and I are now the proud owners of a small log cabin in the woods
in the mountains of far northern New Mexico. At the end of a dirt road, the
cabin is somewhat rustic and has kind of a Ted Kaczynski look, though much more
upscale, with curtains and a big-screen TV.

We may be the only people in the 'hood here who have a burnt orange Texas
Longhorn blanket on our front porch swing. Instead of a Sixth Street or a
Warehouse District, Angel Fire (population 971 in 2009) has a flashing light and
an elk crossing sign. Yes, sometimes you see elk grazing off to the side of the
road.

Both the coin laundry and the butane company are decorated with wooden bear
statues out front. I'm not sure it's a reputable business in this part of the
world unless it has a wooden bear sculpture out front.

So why have I come here? As I am writing this, it's 30 degrees at 8 in the
morning, and I can see pines out the kitchen window. Later on, it will heat up
to 62.

As I am writing this, it is 61 degrees in Austin, and it'll heat up to 90. And
as you look out your kitchen window, you can see dead grass.

It actually rains here now and again. Another big plus.

This is not a permanent move.

I have yet to be completely run out of town. We'll be using the log cabin to
escape Austin's horrid summers, which grow hotter and more dry as years go by.

We'll probably say goodbye to Austin each May or June and stay up here through
September or until the temperatures start to drop back down to, say, 91.

There's a shortage of ugly here. If you get bored, you can walk outside and
watch the aspen trees in the mountains turning a brilliant yellow or go find a
stream and catch some trout.

The lifestyle is laid back. We have a neighborhood association, but I doubt
they're very fussy.

Our closest neighbor is building a labyrinth in her yard to be made out of
stones. The stones haven't made an appearance yet.

To date, the labyrinth consists of a large hole, probably 20 feet across and
eight feet deep. Our neighbor is an artist. Did I need to add that? I've seen
her artwork, so I'm sure it will be a vortex-quality labyrinth when completed.
And our auras will be fluffed by its existence.

If you hate shopping, this is the place for you.

The nearest Walmart is 30 or so miles away in Taos.

There is a small store in town with milk, booze, ice cream and other
necessities. And jerky? The store has probably close to 100 kinds of jerky,
including Fatman's brand habanero, red chile and "Cowboy Style."

There is Internet hookup, but it's a bit sketchy.

You don't see people stumbling down the street gazing into their iPhones here
like you do in Austin. That may be because they can't get a decent connection.
Then again, Kit Carson never had a password, if you catch my drift.

So if you're in a hurry and you're looking for bright lights/big city, and
traffic jams and people honking, and you enjoy back-in parking, don't move up
here. Unless you like the idea of 72 degrees feeling like a heat wave.

John Kelso's column appears on Sundays. Contact him at 445-3606 or
jkelso@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 27, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Power shifting at schools?

BYLINE: Kate Alexander AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 812 words


Even as local budget cuts forced some teachers out of their jobs this spring,
the survivors felt lucky to have squeaked through Texas' regular legislative
session with their pay and contract rights intact.

But they probably won't escape unscathed from the Legislature's 30-day overtime
session, which will end Wednesday.

Senate Bill 8 gives school boards and administrators new management authority to
help districts contend with a $4 billion - or 6 percent - reduction in state
aid. It could affect teacher pay, job security and seniority as well as
termination rights.

"Unfortunately, when most of your expenses are salaries and benefits, that is
where any major relief is going to have to come from. That's just math," said
Jacqueline Lain of the Texas Association of School Boards.

Most districts have the option of raising property taxes with voter approval to
avoid cuts, but there is little certainty that such propositions would pass in
the current economic climate.

Lain said SB 8 gives districts the flexibility they need to save jobs because it
provides them with ways to reduce costs without laying off teachers.

The bill has been through a conference committee and needs final approval from
both chambers before going to the governor.

The legislation allows for teacher pay reductions as well as unpaid furloughs,
though that authority might not come in time for districts to use during the
upcoming school year. Without this change, teacher pay would have to be
maintained at current levels.

The Austin district, for one, said last week that it will not enact pay cuts or
furloughs for the 2011-12 school year, although it could not promise those would
not come the next year. And the Round Rock district said it will be able to
retain most teachers, though without any pay increases.

The Round Rock district will keep nearly all the teacher, counselor, library
aide and elementary education assistant positions that had been cut.

Teacher groups say much more is at stake than their members' pay. SB 8, they
say, tips the relationship between teachers and their bosses in favor of
management.

"Suddenly, the balance of power shifted a lot, I assume as a consolation prize
for the significant cuts to funding for school districts," said Jeri Stone,
executive director of the Texas Classroom Teachers Association. "Using the
budget crisis to diminish teacher employment benefits is opportunistic."

Superintendents will have much more authority "without a great system of checks
and balances," Stone said.

SB 8 eases the process for laying off teachers in midcontract when a district
has declared a financial emergency and eliminates seniority protections.

Another provision allows a school board to override the finding of an
independent hearing examiner appointed to determine whether there is cause for a
suspension or firing.

For district leaders, the status quo is costly and unworkable in the face of the
budget crisis, said Amy Beneski, governmental relations director for the Texas
Association of School Administrators.

This legislation would give districts more options for dealing with their
employees and the associated costs, but it does not require them to do anything,
she said.

"Whether or not they choose to exercise (those options) will be determined
locally, as it should be," Beneski said.

The new process for handling employment disputes would cost less and be more
efficient, she said. Teachers still have full due process rights to appeal any
decisions.

"It's change and it's uncomfortable, and I don't think anyone wants to be in
this position," Beneski said. "What a lot of people are forgetting is that we're
all here to educate kids."

The bill's author, state Sen. Florence Shapiro, R-Plano, said it is just good
public policy for the school districts to have the flexibility and authority to
manage their personnel. She doesn't see a big shift in that relationship as a
result of SB 8.

This change is not comparable to the high-profile labor dispute in Wisconsin, in
part because teachers in Texas have relatively weak contract protections.

Teachers, unlike most public employees in Texas, have contracts so school
districts can be assured that they have the staff members necessary for the full
school year.

Employment rights were also put in place to protect teachers from the political
vagaries of running a school district and that protection is being eroded, said
Rob D'Amico, spokesman for the Texas affiliate of the American Federation of
Teachers.

He added that older and higher-paid teachers might be more vulnerable because
letting them go would save more money. And people who spoke out against
administration policies would have a target on their backs, he said.

"We had a tough enough time attracting and retaining quality teachers before
these measures were put in place. They are going to do nothing to make the
profession more attractive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Embracing 'new tech,' a district aims higher

BYLINE: Melissa B. Taboada AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1261 words


MANOR - Five years after New Tech High School opened, graduation rates there
have topped 97 percent.

That's enough to convince Manor school district leaders that the project-based
learning program should be expanded districtwide. Administrators at the
7,600-student Manor district on Travis County's northeastern edge - where two of
its 11 traditional schools received the state's lowest rating this year - see
the program as transformative.

Manor will be the first traditional public school district in Texas to bring the
concept to kindergarten through 12th grades, New Tech Network organization
officials said. The Napa, Calif.-based nonprofit is recognizing the Manor
district as the first certified training site for project-based learning, which
calls for using hands-on collaborative projects to teach various core subjects.

The idea behind the teaching model is that students learn better when teachers
scale back their roles as lecturers, allowing students to think independently.

Manor's New Tech High School has had only two graduating classes. All 40
students in the inaugural class of 2010 graduated. That feat was almost repeated
with the class of 2011, in which 97 percent of students have graduated so far.
The remaining students have not dropped out and are still pursuing their
diplomas.

The accomplishment bucks statistical expectations: In both graduating classes,
most students are members of minority ethnic groups, and 65 percent of the class
of 2010 and 60 percent of 2011 seniors came from low-income families.

By comparison, Manor High School had an 82.4 percent completion rate in 2010.
The average statewide was 91.4 percent.

New Tech High has remarkable success in other areas as well. The first
graduating class had 100 percent acceptance into college, and 97 percent of the
2011 graduates were accepted into college. More than 50 percent of those
students are first-generation college attendees.

"We are now working as quickly as possible to speed up the learning we have
gained from New Tech High School to see what we can replicate in elementary,
middle and high school levels in a model that can be sustained as well," said
Superintendent Andrew Kim. "We're talking about multiple things we're trying to
redo, change and correct so we can truly transform the whole organization."

So far, the district has had some success.

Decker Elementary School was at risk of being closed after three years of
failing to meet state academic standards. Things began turning around in 2008-09
with then-new Principal Leslie Whitworth, who brought in the project-based
learning model the next year.

Teachers traded out much of traditional lecture-style teaching, which Manor
officials said can make students passive participants in learning.

Each classroom has been renovated; large glass windows were installed for
visitors to peer in and students to see across to other classrooms.

The design is supposed to lend itself toward collaboration, educators said.

Students don't appear to be distracted by the windows, or even take notice of
visitors observing from the hallway. They move about the classroom freely and
work with one another.

Desks are round tables where students can work together, rather than individual
workstations that face the front of the classroom.

Fourth-grade students last semester broke into teams and collaborated to design
a house that could be used for Habitat for Humanity. At their disposal were
laptops, iPads and iPods - beefed up technology is a big part of the program.

The students researched the organization and its beneficiaries. They tapped
their math skills to sketch out the home's dimensions and all its rooms. Then
they wrote and presented a paper on what they learned.

"We were the architects," said 10-year-old Alex Velasco.

In another assignment, students researched global warming and climate change.
They turned in a video that provides statistics and photographs about the
effects of greenhouse gases and shows the impact of environmentally friendly
habits such as conserving water and electricity and recycling. They learned
skills in science, math, writing and public speaking.

"They accept what they're doing as something that can help someone, in all
sincerity," said Ruth Burrell, a fourth-grade teacher who received project-based
learning training three years ago. "They assume the responsibility of tackling
that world problem."

Whitworth, Decker's principal, said that under the project-based model, student
learning is reflected in "more than just scores or grades. You see a
transformation of their ability to take ownership " for their learning. It
really changes the child, the level of higher learning."

Decker needed technology upgrades and $196,530 in renovations that the district
paid for using federal grants and interest earned on bond proceeds, among other
sources.

Manor officials say the investment paid off: Student achievement jumped, earning
the school the state's second highest accountability rating in 2009 and 2010.
(The school was rated academically acceptable this year, missing the mark in
reading.)

Now, the program is in all seven Manor elementary schools, and a handful of
teachers at Manor Middle School this year are using the method. Other middle
school teachers will be trained later this year.

In the fall of 2009, Manor launched its Think Forward Institute for educators in
which master teachers trained in project-based learning teach educators from
across the country how to create data-driven projects.

The district still has a ways to go, however. Manor Middle School and Oak
Meadows Elementary School received the state's lowest rating.

But Lydia Dobyns , the president of the New Tech Network, said she believes that
"Manor is one of handful districts in the country right now that have the vision
and the capacity to really provide a (kindergarten) through 12 transformation."

"They're one of the exemplary districts within the network, achieving great
success," Dobyns said. "You'll see first-hand creative teaching, students
responsible for learning and engaged in learning. They constantly reflect
collaboration and creativity."

New Tech High is one of the network organization's demonstration sites, and
Dobyns said the district has shown a commitment to train others.

The district is working with the UTeach Institute, a collaboration between the
College of Natural Science and the College of Education at the University of
Texas.

Kim said he wanted to offer a higher education institution the chance to see how
project-based learning works and to help "produce teachers, especially in the
natural sciences area, who understand how to incorporate project-based learning
in working with kids."

Under the UTeach program, University of Texas students spend time in a
project-based instructional class. Later, graduates come back to teach in the
district.

Michael Marder, co-director of UTeach Natural Sciences, has been working with
Manor's New Tech High since it opened in 2007.

"It's the best kind of partnership," Marder said.

mtaboada@statesman.com;

445-3620

New Tech Network
 New Tech Network, a nonprofit organization, was founded in Napa, Calif., in
1996 and expanded quickly after a 2001 grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation.
 The teaching model focuses on an instructional approach centered on
project-based learning and strong use of technology.
 New Tech programs are now in 86 high schools in 16 states including
California, New York and several schools in Texas, including Akins and Eastside
 Memorial high schools in the Austin school district.

Source: New Tech Network



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Technology to capture carbon put to UT test

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2565 words


In a four-story test plant just behind a warehouselike research building in
North Austin , University of Texas researchers are hoping for a revolutionary
breakthrough to the question of how to continue to burn coal without
contributing to global warming.

A miniature power plant, only big enough to theoretically power a few homes,
pipes carbon dioxide in and captures it with the aid of some fancy stack filters
and a variety of solvents. The aim is to capture about 90 percent of the carbon
dioxide emitted by the minifacility and then to scale up the project in a
half-dozen years to a commercial plant.

The technology could "keep a (coal plant) going for another 30 years," said Gary
Rochelle, the UT scientist heading the project.

The success or failure of this experiment, along with several others by UT
researchers, could help spell the future of coal policy in the United States.
Playing a prominent role in paying for and organizing the projects are
coal-burning utilities, who have a lot to win or lose if the researchers can
show that carbon emissions can be captured and piped underground for storage.

Though carbon limits have stalled in Congress, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency is setting up rules to limit carbon emissions from refineries and power
plants.

The Obama administration has pumped millions of dollars into carbon capture
demonstration projects, sprinkling money around a handful of research
universities. Over the past five years, the Department of Energy has invested
more than $4 billion in carbon capture and storage projects nationally and about
$765 million into projects in Texas.

A clean-burning plant, or at least its promise, is key to the future of coal as
the government grapples with how to regulate carbon emissions from coal plants,
which scientists have linked to global warming. For all the cost of retrofitting
an existing coal plant - as much as $500 million - it would produce much more
power, more reliably than all sorts of current renewable setups.

Texas, the researchers say, could be a national repository for carbon dioxide,
which can be buried in underground salt domes and below the Gulf of Mexico. As a
bonus, the carbon storage method could be used to push out hard-to-reach
deposits of oil, like floss pressing up against teeth.

So far, no such capture and storage project has been built on a commercial
scale.

Critics say the projects are part of an expensive fantasy promulgated by coal
companies to stave off stricter federal legislation and to entice government
subsidies for new coal-burning projects. Clean coal, they say, is a kind of
unattainable holy grail of energy.

"The rush to throw up an old coal plant, bolt on some new scrubbers, and sell it
as 'clean coal technology' is a transparently cynical attempt to cash in before
the economic hurricane of global warming hits," Jeff Goodell writes in "Big
Coal," his 2006 book. "The executives who are building these plants know that
once they are constructed, no one is going to tear them down, giving the
companies fifty years of steady profits."

Industry sponsors

"The scale of my activity is not approached elsewhere in the U.S.," said
Rochelle, a chatty, precise and candid man.

At its most basic, Rochelle's group examines how a solvent called piperazine and
packing alternatives that look like space-age air-conditioning filters can be
used to capture carbon dioxide molecules before they escape into the atmosphere.

The money for their work is largely provided by the Luminant Carbon Management
Program, founded in 2007 and named for the Texas generator Luminant , which has
donated $2.3 million to the program . The check came during a semiannual
get-together in which Rochelle and his students gave presentations about project
progress.

"The carbon dioxide issue is extremely complex, and it takes all of us in this
room and many others to resolve," Steve Horn, Luminant's vice president of
engineering and technology, told a crowd of graduate students and company
scientists.

Sponsors like Luminant and other utilities can participate in the talks and
comment on drafts of research articles. In addition to the Luminant money,
Rochelle's group will get $800,000 this year from a consortium of 32 companies,
including more than a half-dozen power-generating companies (among them, LS
Power, Southern Company and NRG) and a handful of oil companies, including
blue-chip companies Exxon, BP, Chevron and ConocoPhillips.

The money pays to "educate future experts in the subject matter to solve a
problem of great technical and societal impact," Rochelle said.

The companies "participate by attending oral research review meetings, and they
generously contribute comments, and criticisms, and hurrahs," Rochelle said. "In
practice we don't see much in writing during the year."

"They make comments on interpreting data and experiments we could be running,
and we certainly implement that," he continued. "They provide technical
direction for our research and development activity."

As for the articles, Rochelle said Luminant "has not exercised any control at
all of what we publish or how we publish." But, he added: "Frankly, I'm not
independent. Money talks. If I had a result embarrassing to Luminant, I'm
probably not going to publish it.

"It's not our job to say this is technology that doesn't work and you shouldn't
do it," he said. "Our job is to find technology that works."

He said that if his group has an unfavorable result for a process used by a
company that contributes far less - $25,000 is the minimum, according to a
four-page prospectus posted on Rochelle's website - he would "feel free to tromp
all over them."

"If they decide to leave because I offend them, I don't care. If it was
Luminant, then I'd care."

He said that industry is crucial to paying for the work the state and federal
government can't fully fund.

"The upside is, corporate money fills in important holes in research the
government doesn't cover," said Michael Webber, associate director of the Center
for International Energy and Environmental Policy at UT. "There's a huge
downside risk, with research money being used to steer the results or the
perception that it is. I worry constantly about both."

"I get a lot of calls from potential corporate sponsors where they say, 'Here's
the answer, can you demonstrate why?' I tell them you can buy the research, but
you can't buy the answer. I have people tell me they're not comfortable with
that and politely decline."

Webber says he tries to keep private sponsorship of his research to a fraction
of his overall budget - right now, he gets about $3 million from government
agencies and about $1 million from companies, environmental groups and others.

Some companies no longer do research and development. Others want to be
associated with the UT brand. Sometimes they attach strings to the intellectual
property. And, not insignificantly, they develop relations with graduate
students who could become employees, Webber says. Those sorts of relationships
are also important to professors, who can recruit talented students because of
top job prospects.

"People ask if I'm a shill for environmentalists or for industry, and I guess
the answer is both: I take money from both, so I'm equally owned."

Corporate money

Corporate-sponsored research is a tricky proposition.

On the one hand, research itself can become a tool of corporations' interests.

"A lot of people can make a lot of money, and you see interests lining up here,
sponsoring research to show how it's going to work," Tom McGarity, a UT law
professor who writes about the corporate sponsorship of science, said of the
carbon capture and sequestration experiments. "We should take a skeptical eye of
that research.

"It's entirely possible they're doing everything on the up-and-up, without any
real influence by corporate sponsors," he continued. "At the same time, there's
a red flag there."

On the other hand, researchers say, corporate research is necessary to move
technology forward.

In Natchez, in southwestern Mississippi, researchers with UT's Bureau of
Economic Geology are conducting a $34 million multiyear field study for
long-term storage of carbon dioxide.

Since July 2008, researchers have pumped 2.5 million tons of naturally occurring
carbon dioxide more than two miles underground. Over the next 10 years,
researchers are investigating whether it will affect groundwater (imagine a
gigantic seltzer effect) and how slowly or quickly the carbon dioxide moves.

The site host is Denbury Resources, which is also responsible for the well
preparation and donates the carbon dioxide, which costs $20 a ton. In exchange,
the company gets access to valuable information about how carbon performs
underground as it expands its own carbon dioxide and oil recovery business.

Researchers say the sponsorship money is important to make sure the ins and outs
of carbon capture and storage are done safely.

"Society is going to pay a lot of money to capture and store the carbon dioxide,
and that's going to add costs to the generation of power," said Ramon Trevino,
who has managed the Natchez work. "Once we go to that extra effort, we want to
make sure that it will be kept down there."

Corporate sponsors "ground us in reality, keep us from being cloistered in the
ivory tower," said Susan Hovorka, a UT research scientist heading the project.
"They help us ask the right questions, and not the questions everyone already
knows the answers to." The U.S. Department of Energy requires matching money
from businesses for its grants, which shows that the government values private
input, Hovorka says.

"Researchers left to their own devices may miss the important problem," she
said. "If industry doesn't think it's worthy of investment, then the feds
don't."

Bureau's expertise

Critical to the project of storing carbon dioxide has been the Bureau of
Economic Geology, a group of bright scientists, including Hovorka, many of whom
used to work in industry and continue to do some consulting.

The bureau, established in 1909, is the oldest research unit at the University
of Texas at Austin, and the carbon storage work naturally extends from the
university's intimacy with underground natural resource extraction. The bureau's
chairman, Scott Tinker, regularly briefs lawmakers to explain the benefits of
carbon capture. The ground beneath Texas and off its coast, in their telling,
could be a national repository for carbon emissions.

And if the carbon were used throughout the state to push out hard-to-get oil, a
process known as enhanced oil recovery, the bureau estimates $171 billion in oil
would be produced, translating into $26 billion in tax revenue and more than 3
million jobs.

Sponsors of the research include Marathon, BP, Chevron, Kinder Morgan, Luminant,
Saudi Aramco, Schlumberger Carbon Services, Entergy and Shell, all companies
involved in coal and oil. Austin Energy and the Lower Colorado River Authority,
which jointly own the Fayette coal-fired power plant, also are sponsors.

The companies pay about $50,000 a year as sponsors, and in some cases, hundreds
of thousands more in in-kind donations.

Hovorka said that the donors have very different corporate positions on climate
change and that "some investing heavily in nuclear would just as soon show that
sequestration is hopeless and some who invest in coal want to prolong the life
of their plants."

Some of these same companies have worked to water down or drown carbon
legislation.

'Clean' coal skeptics

Over the past few legislative sessions, lawmakers have passed a series of
incentives to spur clean coal technologies, typically in the form of tax breaks
for new plants.

In 2009, lawmakers established tax credits worth as much as $100 million to
projects that capture and sequester carbon dioxide, passed a bill directing the
land commissioner and Bureau of Economic Geology to study submerged land in the
Gulf of Mexico for the storage of carbon dioxide and a third measure waiving
some fees for pipeline owners who ship carbon dioxide.

And late in 2010, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality approved the
construction of a coal-fired power plant in West Texas, near Sweetwater, that
its developer has said will capture carbon dioxide and pipe it underground for
oil recovery.

Rochelle says his experiments will cut the amount of energy consumed by plants
just to capture their carbon dioxide, limit further environmental problems
associated with the process and reduce high capital costs.

Whether the Sweetwater plant gets built and whether it actually captures the
greenhouse gas remain open questions.

The very notion of clean coal has divided environmental groups. Some green
groups, such as Sierra Club and GreenPeace, refuse to countenance any plan that
means the continued burning of fossil fuels.

"Clean coal is like a healthy cigarette," Al Gore has said. "It does not exist."

In 2009, the Legislature passed a bill to examine how carbon dioxide could be
stored underground off the Gulf Coast.

Other environmental groups somewhat begrudgingly joined with the Clean Coal
Technology Foundation, which represents some utilities, to pass a bill that
provides hundreds of millions of dollars to coal plants that capture and store
their carbon emissions.

"We're not champions of coal, but we're realists," Scott Anderson, a senior
policy adviser in the climate and air program at Environmental Defense Fund,
said at the time. "Coal is going to be around for a long time."

Carbon pricing

In November, state officials, University of Texas researchers and members of the
Carbon Capture and Storage Association, which includes utilities among its
members, sent a delegation to China to examine carbon capture projects there.
The trip was organized by the Clean Air Task Force, a Massachusetts-based
environmental group that tries to limit carbon emissions.

The plan may have backfired.

"It wasn't obvious to us that their air was getting any better," Barry
Smitherman, the chairman of the Texas Public Utility Commission, said in an
interview after the trip. "It's like being shot in the head, being taken to the
emergency room, and the doctors are looking at your fingernails. (Limiting
carbon emissions) is a noble objective, but it should take a huge backseat to
cleaning up other stuff."

Despite new EPA rules on carbon emissions, wider-spread action is unlikely in
Congress, where utilities effectively flexed their muscles even before the
midterm elections ushered in Republicans opposed to further regulations.

In turn, the urgency for carbon capture and storage technology has receded.

Rochelle estimates that by 2015, he will be able to test his carbon capture
equipment on a 60-megawatt plant near Houston, about a sixth the size of a
commercial plant.

"If carbon were priced, it would be economically attractive (to retrofit a
plant)," he said. An increase in the price of natural gas, a competing fuel for
power plants, would make a $500 million upgrade in carbon capture equipment at
an existing coal plant even more attractive, he said.

"You would eliminate carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plant
production," he said, calling it a better investment than buying wind or solar
power or building a biomass power plant.

Tinker is more blunt.

"If a price is not put on carbon at some point in time and/or no limits on
emissions, then this research will slow down," he said.

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

green shift

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1213 words


At the petroleum engineering building on the University of Texas campus, a
bulletin board on the ground floor belonging to the Society of Petroleum
Engineers says, simply, "Keep on Drilling." The Santa Rita No. 1 oil rig, the
emblem of the royalty riches that have funded the university for so long, sits
on campus on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Twenty-four-seven, a disembodied
voice announces that the blowing of the well in 1923 "was the fulfillment of a
prophecy of great things to come."

As the university prepares for a forum this week on 21st-century energy
challenges, the question lingers of how well-situated the campus is to meet
them.

The forum organized by students at the McCombs School of Business, with panels
like "utility of the future" and "bringing energy storage to market," and
another on sustainable architecture, is largely about the sort of smart,
alternative energy options that have grown hip over the past decade. It also
includes a panel on "new developments in oil and gas."

"We realize that the energy landscape is changing," said Josh Stillman, head of
the steering committee for the forum, which has as its subtitle "Fostering
Interdisciplinary Collaboration in Energy ." "UT is doing a lot of that
research, and while its reputation is still in the oil and gas realm, (the
forum) shows a major balance in the research done at UT."

In many respects, the university remains an oil-and-gas school. Its petroleum
engineering department is one of the best in the world. And, of course, the U.S.
remains an oil-and-gas nation.

More than 95 percent of our transportation fuels are dependent on fossil fuels,
and electricity is about 80 percent based on fossil fuels, says Tad Patzek , who
chairs the petroleum engineering department at UT.

"While there are valid and valiant attempts to bring along other energy sources,
the fact remains" that the nation depends on fossil fuels,

Patzek said.

"Think of the U.S. as a mega-Titanic. It's very difficult to change course, no
matter what you see ahead."

The university seems to be steering hard, judging by recent hires, a new
bachelor's degree in environmental sciences and the recent founding of the
Energy Institute, with a focus on sustainable energy security, as well as
cutting-edge research by longtime faculty.

The founding, in 2000, of the Environmental Science Institute , was in some ways
a benchmark in trying to loosen up the university structure.

"Universities, in some cases, can be very a-nimble," said Jay Banner, a
geologist at UT and director of the institute. "Some departments have been
around forever, and being interdisciplinary is inherently necessary for tackling
environmental problems."

This year is the first that UT is offering an interdisciplinary environmental
sciences degree. The forum echoes this work, with law professors, engineers and
architects from the university among the panelists.

"We're working on breaking down boundaries between different schools," said Rob
Hallenbeck, a McCombs student who is chairing the forum.

In 2009, the university hired Ray Orbach , a decorated undersecretary for
science in the Department of Energy during President George W. Bush's
administration , to head its new Energy Institute.

"I came because Texas is an energy state and made its fortune in the last
century on energy," he says. "Can it continue that quality of life and standard
of living in the 21st with carbon constraints?"

Dealing with carbon emissions, he says, is a "social issue" that has to proceed
whether or not Washington regulates the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, a major
byproduct of coal- and petroleum-based energy generation.

Recent hires have buoyed the way the university answers this challenge. Michael
Webber and Carey King, who work on issues such as the relationship between
energy consumption and water use or the amount of energy used in food
production. Or the mechanical engineer Varun Rai, who has written about the
economics of climate change and regulatory consequences.

University biologists and engineers have teamed with private companies, the
state government and the U.S. government on a batch of projects that are
examining ways to cultivate algae, break open their oil-rich cells and
ultimately develop a new kind of biofuel.

Meanwhile, older professors have been on the leading edge of renewable work: The
engineer John Goodenough has worked on lithium-ion batteries, and
electrochemistry professor Allen Bard has worked on converting water into
hydrogen fuel.

"A lot of this has long been going on, but no one knows it," said Webber, who is
a keynote speaker at this week's conference. "It's a perpetual branding problem
for the university. People know we have the No. 1 petroleum engineering program
- but don't know we lead in the study of alternative fuels."

"No shift has suddenly happened," said Webber, who was also an undergraduate at
UT. "This has been occurring for a while. There are so many reasons that UT is
good at clean energy, and that's because of dirty energy: UT has such good ties
with the energy industries."

Webber said the enthusiasm around clean energy in Austin reminds him of the
dot-com days in Palo Alto, Calif.,

in the late 1990s, when he was a graduate student at Stanford University.

"The transition from a carbon economy to a carbon-restrained economy is going to
be good for Texas," he said.

In smaller ways, the university that once saw Board of Regents Chairman Frank
Erwin, wearing a hard hat and brandishing a bullhorn, order police to arrest 27
protesters on charges of disorderly conduct as they chained themselves to trees
to be cleared for a 1969 stadium expansion, is changing.

In July, the Alcalde , the UT alumni magazine, reported that the university had
shut off its iconic fountains during a 2009 drought - "even as football season
and the accompanying alumni and booster traffic was beginning."

The university turned down the lights on the UT Tower during Earth Hour - an
hour organized by environmental groups to encourage energy efficiency, the
magazine reported, and hired its first full-time director of sustainability in
2009.

"For no other reason than to attract good students and research dollars, we
should be leading and not trailing," said Chip Groat , director of the Center
for International Energy and Environmental Policy.

The forum, organized by students, "speaks volumes about their increasing
engagement," Patzek said. "They're far more sensitized to upcoming problems. It
behooves us as a faculty at UT to help the students and develop curricula that
will enhance that knowledge."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

The University of Texas Energy Forum
 When and where: The conference runs from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday at the
AT&T Executive Education and Conference Center, 1900 University Ave. From 8
a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday at the Etter-Harbin Alumni Center, 2110 San Jacinto Blvd.
 Tickets: $25 for UT students; $50 for non-UT students; $75 for academics and
government and nonprofit officials; and $100 for others.
 More information: www.utenergyforum.com


Your thoughts
 Does the University of Texas have the balance right in its focus on
petroleum-related education and research as compared to the resources it
devotes to other energy sources? Join the discussion at
statesman.com/go/insightforum.



LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 12, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Georgetown may exit LCRA deal, seek clean power

BYLINE: Claire Osborn AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 444 words


Georgetown is looking to expand its use of renewable power and is planning to
end its energy contract with the Lower Colorado River Authority, which provides
most of the power to the city.

The current contract, which is due to expire in 2017, covers about 55,000 people
in Georgetown and 15,000 people outside the city and ranges from $38 million to
$42 million annually, said Jim Briggs, the assistant city manager.

The city has talked to LCRA for months about its decision and will likely give
formal notice of the termination in March or April, Briggs said. There is no
penalty for early termination. The city is required to decide by June whether it
intends to terminate the contract, he said.

Georgetown officials want 66 percent of the city's power to come from renewable
and nuclear sources by 2035.

The city, which signed its first power contract with LCRA in 1946, is pursuing
contracts with several providers, Briggs said. City officials are negotiating
with companies including J.P. Morgan Commodities Group, NRG Energy, American
Electric Group and E.ON Climate & Renewables resources, Briggs said.

He said it is hard to predict utility costs for residents after the city
terminates its main contract with LCRA.

"Our goal is to have reduced risk and stable rates for at least the next 10
years or so," Briggs said. "With that in mind, at least until after 2021, there
should not be any significant changes to retail rates in our service territory
based on what we know currently and what we have control over."

The Georgetown City Council will choose the contract winners by March, he said,
and will seek shorter contracts so that it can change directions if needed in
case any new methods of energy generation come along.

The energy LCRA provides is generated mostly from carbon-based sources, Briggs
said.

Of the energy LCRA generated in 2010, about 4 percent was from renewable
sources, 50 percent was from natural gas and 46 percent was from coal, said
Clara Tuma, an LCRA spokeswoman. LCRA took steps to increase its renewable power
by adding 200 megawatts of wind power from a new project on the Gulf Coast, Tuma
said.

Georgetown is one of LCRA's 43 wholesale energy customers and uses about 3
percent of the energy supplied by the authority to those customers, Tuma said.

"No matter the outcome, LCRA remains committed to serving the city for the
remainder of our current contract with reliable, cost-based and environmentally
responsible power," said Tom Mason, the authority's general manager.

Georgetown is planning to continue a different contract with LCRA that provides
about 2.8 percent of power to the city, Briggs said.

cosborn@statesman.com; 246-0040

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Comedian wants you to talk back

BYLINE: Brian Gaar AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 1437 words


In an era when your YouTube channel can make you famous, Greg Fitzsimmons is
refreshing.

Maybe it's because he's in his 40s and has a bit of a curmudgeonly streak. But
more likely, it's because Fitzsimmons is a pro who's legitimately funny and has
paid his dues.

Still, for someone who proudly claims old-school comedy roots, Fitzsimmons has
jumped head-first into new media. In addition to touring comedy clubs, he has a
regular podcast (Fitzdog Radio), and a show on Sirius satellite radio (on the
Howard 101 channel).

He's also got a new book out, "Dear Mrs. Fitzsimmons," a memoir about growing up
in an Irish Catholic household in New York.

Fitzsimmons is performing at Cap City Comedy Club today through Saturday.

American-Statesman: Will this be your first time through Austin?

Greg Fitzsimmons: Yeah, I've never been there. I've worked Houston and Dallas
and a couple other Texas places. I like Texas - I actually recorded my CD in
Houston - I like how Texans are. They're big and you can't really offend them.
... It's funny because it's "Don't Mess With Texas," but the truth is, you guys
are so confident in Texas that you can take a punch. You go to some cities and
they're very sensitive, and in Texas, I have never experienced that. And that's
why I did my CD there, because " as a New Yorker, being able to come down and
(criticize) George Bush in his hometown and (I had) hecklers that weren't
mean-spirited, but they just had something to say.

And I like hecklers. I'll just say for the record: If you want to heckle, come
to my show. I don't want to be the guy that stands there for an hour (saying),
"Everyone shut up! I'm the only one allowed to state anything for an hour!"

I feel more like, as long as it's directed to me, then I'm into it. But if you
start talking amongst yourselves, then we got a problem.

Well, you like to mix it up, too. You're not afraid of confrontation at all.

No, I like it, because I'm Irish. And so, the more people want to create a
dialogue - I mean, I'm saying some things that are provocative. And for me to
then demand that no one responds to it is, I think, really controlling and lame.
So I feel like when I'm having to react to someone - and I'm not talking about
somebody standing up and screaming, "You're an (expletive) !"; I'm just talking
about if I go into the crowd and talk to people - I like when they talk back,
and I like if somebody yells (stuff) out.

To me, it reminds people that they're not watching TV - that they paid money,
they got a baby sitter, they parked the car, they went to dinner, they're buying
drinks " for that, they get a unique experience. I never do the same material in
the same way and I'm always putting new (stuff) in, and a lot of topical stuff
and local stuff. And the crowd's a part of that.

TELEVISION

"America's Next Top Model" season premiere, 7 p.m., CW

"Shedding for the Wedding" series premiere. 8 p.m., the CW.

THEATER

Blue Man Group. The popular theatrical show and concert combines music, comedy
and technology. 8 p.m. today through Saturday, 2 p.m. Saturday and Sunday, 7:30
p.m. Sunday. $29. Dell Hall, Long Center for the Performing Arts, 701 W.
Riverside Drive. 476-6064, www.broadwayacrossamerica.com.

BOOKS

Paul Lisicky. Reading by author of the novel "Lawnboy," the memoir "Famous
Builder" and the forthcoming novel "The Burning House." 7:30 p.m. University of
Texas, Carothers Residence Hall, Joynes Reading Room, 2501 Whitis Ave. 471-4991,
www.utexas.edu/know/events.

Mary McDonagh Murphy. Signs her book "Scout, Atticus, and Boo," followed by
showing of documentary, "Hey, Boo: Harper Lee and 'To Kill a Mockingbird.'" 7:30
p.m. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. Free. 472-5050, www.bookpeople.com.

CLASSICAL MUSIC

"Histoire du soldat." Brown Symposium XXXIII inaugural performance of
Stravinsky's "The Soldier's Tale," 7 to 9 p.m. Wednesday. Free. Alma Thomas
Theater, Fine Arts Center, Southwestern University Campus, 1001 E. University
Ave, Georgetown. www

.southwestern.edu/sarofim.

BLACK HISTORY MONTH

"Before Freedom: Texas Slave Narratives." The temporary exhibit in honor of
Black History Month is a recorded collection of former slave narratives. A
couple of listening stations play looped excerpts of personal memoirs and
interviews, and small booklets let visitors read the rest of the experts. The
exhibit also features slave artifacts, including a former slave registry and
shackles. Texas Capitol Visitors Center, 112 E. 11th St. Admission is free. 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. today through Saturday. Noon to 5 p.m. Sunday.

EVENTS

The Contest: A Quiz About Nothing. Geeks Who Drink, who present various pub
quizzes each week, are back with another special themed event. Tonight, test
your knowledge of "Seinfeld." Puffy shirt optional. 8 p.m. , Mister Tramps, 8565
Research Blvd. $5 a player (cash prize for first place will depend on how many
teams play). Details, including other Geeks Who Drink events in Austin:
www.geekswhodrink.com.

MUSIC

Gipsy Kings. For decades, the Gipsy Kings have been the gold standard for mutant
Romani/Gitano music, recombinant stuff that's part pop, part flamenco, part funk
and all heart. Doors at 6:30 p.m., show at 8 p.m. $39 to $125. ACL Live at Moody
Theater, 310 W. Second St. www.acl-live.com.

- Joe Gross

Also recommended: Marnie Stern, Tera Melos at the Mohawk; James McMurtry at
Continental Club; Calliope Musicals CD release at Emo's; Polymorphines, the Dead
Left at Red 7; Pato Banton, the Mau Mau Chaplains at Flamingo Cantina; Damon
Johnson at the Ghost Room; Something Ain't Rights at the Hole in the Wall;
Screemhole, Bad Frank at the Red Eyed Fly.

ART

"Recovering Beauty: The 1990s in Buenos Aires." Art produced during a time of
pivotal transformation in Argentina. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesdays-Fridays, 11 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Saturdays through May 22, 1 to 5 p.m. Sundays. Blanton Museum of Art,
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and North Congress Avenue. $5 to $9; free entry
on Thursdays. 471-7324, www.blantonmuseum.org.

"Totally Cool Totally Art." Works created by teens in grades seven through 12.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Mondays-Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays,
noon to 5 p.m. Sundays through Monday. $1 to $5. Mexic-Arte Museum, 419 Congress
Ave. 480-9373, www.mexic-artemuseum.org.

IN STORES THIS WEEK  *  DVDS
 Pick of the week: "Sweet Smell of Success" (Criterion): Count on seeing clips
from this bitterly brilliant look at the underbelly of show biz when the Oscars
 pay tribute to co-star Tony Curtis, who died in September.
 Other top picks: "Get Low" (Sony): Winning performances from Robert Duvall and
 others, along with a strong sense of its Depression-era setting, help this
debut overcome some storytelling hurdles.
 "Memento" (Lions Gate): In the 10 years since his breakthrough, re-released
now on Blu-ray, director Christopher Nolan has helmed a highbrow superhero
franchise, crafted a blockbuster worthy of the arthouse ("Inception") and more.
 Guess this backward-told mystery wasn't a fluke.
 Fresh from the multiplex: "Due Date" (Warner Bros.); "Megamind" (Paramount,
Friday)
 New on Blu-ray: "48 Hours" (Paramount); "Daughters of Darkness" (Blue
Underground); "How The Earth Was Made" Season 2 (A&E).
 Arthouse/foreign: "Carmo, Hit the Road" (First Run Pictures); "Change of
Plans," "Leaving," "Room in Rome" (MPI); "Federico Fellini's The Clowns," "The
Fernando Di Leo Crime Collection" (RaroVideo); "Fish Tank," "Senso"
(Criterion); "Mesrine: Killer Instinct: Part 1" (Music Box); "Road, Movie" (New
 Video); "The Temptation of St. Tony" (Olive Films)
 Documentaries: "Brutal Beauty" (MVD); "Climate of Change," "See What I'm
Saying: The Deaf Entertainer Documentary," "Waiting for Hockney" (New Video);
"Jeff Beck: Rock 'n' Roll Party Honoring Les Paul" (Eagle Rock); "Kartemquin:
The Early Years, Vol. 2" (Facets); "Kings of Pastry" (First Run Pictures);
"Last Train Home" (Zeitgeist); "Les Misérables: 25th Anniversary Concert"
(Universal); "Merce Cunningham Dance Company," "Rocaterrania" (Microcinema);
"Two in the Wave" (Kino); "Waiting For 'Superman'" (Paramount)
 Tv-on-DVD: "After The Wall: A World United," "Chautauqua: An American
Narrative" (PBS); "The Darling Buds of May" (BFS); "Eddie Griffin: You Can Tell
 'Em I Said It," "Have Gun Will Travel" Season 5, Vol. 2 (Paramount); "Frank
Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim Museum," "The Nude In Art" (Microcinema); "Fresh
Fields" Set 1, "Midsomer Murders" Set 17 (Acorn Media); "Ice Road Truckers"
Season 4 (A&E); "Nurse Jackie" Season 2, "Weeds" Season 6 (Lions Gate)
 Straight(ish) to video: "Sword of War" (Lions Gate)
 Kids' stuff: "All-Star Superman" (Warner Bros.); "The Last Unicorn" (Lions
Gate)
- John DeFore



LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tight budget, fewer jobs?

BYLINE: Barry Harrell and Tim Eaton AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 979 words


Hundreds of thousands of jobs would disappear from Texas' economy in the next
two years if the House's current no-new-taxes, bare-bones budget proposal
stands, an analysis by the state's Legislative Budget Board says.

The analysis - which looked at the effect of proposed spending levels in the
state's general appropriations bill - calculates a combination of people losing
government jobs and a ripple effect of private-sector jobs not being created.

The result, according to the analysis released Thursday, is that the state would
have 271,746 fewer jobs in 2012 and 335,244 fewer jobs in 2013. The totals are
not cumulative, according to the Legislative Budget Board. About 189,000 of the
335,000 total would be government positions, and about 146,000 would be from the
private sector, according to the analysis.

The report, intended to give lawmakers information about the budget proposal's
impact before House members vote on it next week , provided little clarity.
Lawmakers and interest groups on both sides of the budget debate - those who
refuse to consider a tax increase and those who favor preserving some state
programs - used the report to attempt to bolster their positions.

The proposed 2012-13 budget is 12.3 percent smaller than the 2010-11 budget,
reflecting the recession's effect on state sales tax revenue, plus the
disappearance of federal economic stimulus money used in the last budget.

State Rep. Jim Pitts, R-Waxahachie and chairman of the appropriations committee,
told The Dallas Morning News the budget plan "reflects the money we have."

State Rep. Mike Villarreal, the San Antonio Democrat who initiated a change to
the House rules that led to the analysis, said it shows problems with the
proposed budget and that it would help lawmakers "understand the consequences."

"The voters did not elect us to eliminate hundreds of thousands of jobs,"
Villarreal said. "We have to be smarter than this."

Katherine Cesinger, spokeswoman for Republican Gov. Rick Perry, said that Perry
"firmly believes that government doesn't create jobs; entrepreneurs in the
private sector do. However, government has a key role to play in cultivating a
favorable climate for job creation."

Republican Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst also defended the budget plan.

"The (Legislative Budget Board) report clearly shows that job creation is tied
to the size of the economy, not the budget. What it does not calculate, however,
are the dramatic job losses Texas would suffer if the Legislature raised taxes
just as our economy is starting to rebound," Dewhurst said. "You cannot expect
to grow the economy and create jobs by growing bigger government."

Scott McCown, executive director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a
left-leaning advocacy group for low- and middle-income Texans, criticized the
appropriations bill and urged lawmakers to vote against it.

The Legislative Budget Board's report "establishes the damage the proposed
budget would do to our economy," McCown said.

Talmadge Heflin, director of the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation's
Center for Fiscal Policy , said the report doesn't show the effect of increasing
taxes, which would be necessary to bring up spending levels. When lawmakers
raise taxes, the economy suffers, and companies get rid of employees, Heflin
said.

The Legislative Budget Board, which reports to the Legislature, does not comment
on its fiscal reports. But economists indicated the analysis draws a direct link
between the amount of money removed from the Texas economy and the number of
jobs it projects will disappear.

The House appropriations bill calls for a combined decrease of $23 billion in
the 2012-13 budget, compared with the 2010-11 budget.

That decrease would represent about 1 percent of the state's total economy for
the next two years. In 2009, the most recent year for which there is data,
Texas' total economy was about $1.14 trillion, according to the federal Bureau
of Economic Analysis.

Meanwhile, Texas' labor force was about 12.1 million in January, according to
the Texas Workforce Commission. The 272,000 jobs projected to disappear in 2012
would account for 2.2 percent of that number, and the 335,000 in 2013 would
account for about 2.8 percent.

The projections do not come as a surprise to Bernard Weinstein, an economist at
the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University.

Weinstein said he had not examined the analysis but that it appeared to be "a
government agency in the state of Texas saying, 'Before you start slashing right
and left, remember there are going to be consequences.'"

Weinstein said it was obvious that proposed budget cuts would have an effect on
the state's job market.

"Jobs creation results from spending by both the private sector and the public
sector. So now you have what economists call the negative multiplier," Weinstein
said. "By cutting the budget here and cutting the budget there, there will be at
least for some time a negative economic impact on income, employment and tax
revenue. By cutting state spending, you are cutting state revenues, because the
recipients of that spending will not be paying taxes on that."

Weinstein said the effect is illustrated by the possibility of thousands of
teachers being laid off statewide as part of the budget crunch.

"Where are they going to find employment quickly?" he said. "The answer is:
nowhere."

bharrell@statesman.com; 912-2960

teaton@statesman.com; 445-3631

Employment impact
*  The state Legislative Budget Board projects that hundreds of thousands of
jobs will disappear from Texas during the next two years if the current House
budget plan is approved.
     2012  2013
 Total jobs expected to disappear  271,746  335,244
 Government jobs expected to disappear 154,684  188,787
 Private-sector jobs expected to disappear 117,060  146,457
 Projected percent employment change -1.9%     -2.3%

Source: Legislative Budget Board



LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tech center dreams

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin and Lori Hawkins AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1098 words


Is Gov. Rick Perry's comment a throwaway line, or has Perry discovered Austin's
vibe?

To be sure, in last month's interview with the Austin American-Statesman, Perry
was trying to answer critics who have questioned how much he values university
research and tenured faculty.

But the governor also has long been a booster of Austin as a technology center
by steering state money to lure businesses and encourage tech startups.

Still, why is Perry suddenly so bullish on Austin as the potential next Silicon
Valley?

Ray Sullivan, the governor's chief of staff, says Perry's vision for Austin was
"resparked" by outsiders - a Boston venture capitalist who visited last month's
South by Southwest festivals and two Stanford University deans whom Perry
visited on a recent trip to California.

"Austin, to no surprise to anyone, has become cool. It's broken through, I
think, the popular culture in the United States," Sullivan said. "People know it
as a great place to visit, a quality and affordable place to live, a hip town.
In between that, and the technology and business infrastructure, a lot of people
- Perry included - feel like we're on the cusp of becoming the next center of
technology development, innovation and production."

For Perry, a recent visit with Jim Pallotta, an investor and co-owner of the
Boston Celtics, reinforced one of Austin's unique qualities.

"At first blush, it seemed strange to us that a middle-aged guy would travel all
the way from Boston to be at SXSW," Sullivan says. "Of course, the music and
cultural scene are pretty cool. But he was down here to talk to young
entrepreneurs and technology innovators because apparently South by Southwest
attracts people from all over the country for the music, of course, and then
also the interactive piece."

Likewise, Perry's recent visit with Stanford engineering Dean James Plummer and
business Dean Garth Saloner focused on a university's role in the local economy.

Sullivan says that has the governor asking about Austin: "What are the missing
ingredients?"

The reality, of course, is that no other place is likely to replicate Silicon
Valley.

The region earned its standing as the unquestioned capital of America's
technology industry thanks to a combination of powerful forces, including
California's concentration of top-tier research universities, a deep well of
venture money for startups, and an impressive roster of homegrown technology
leaders, from Hewlett-Packard Co. starting in the 1960s, to companies such as
Apple Inc. and the current generation led by Google and Facebook.

In contrast, until the 1990s, Austin's technology industry was dominated by
large out-of-state companies that had branch operations here. Even now, Dell
Inc. remains the only local Fortune 500 technology company, compared with many
in Silicon Valley.

Jimmy Treybig, who founded Tandem Computers in California and moved to Austin in
1996, says that in the end, how Austin stacks up to Silicon Valley is beside the
point. What matters is how Austin fosters its homegrown companies as they move
from the startup stage to become industry leaders.

"Silicon Valley is being replicated throughout the world. The term really stands
for business and technology and people," Treybig said. "It would be wrong to say
we're going to be the second Silicon Valley. The goal is to have a lot of
industry that is of that type, that is innovative and growing, and creates jobs
with a high standard of living and generates wealth for employees.

"We have a lot of the necessary ingredients - the engineering talent, the
venture capitalists, the legal and accounting expertise, but we need the CEOs to
be here, we need the marketing power here, to truly be a dominant player," he
said.

When Perry asks about the missing ingredients, he is not necessarily talking
about new government initiatives or more money for the University of Texas,
Sullivan says. (In Perry's 11 years as governor, state spending on UT has
increased from $281 million to $318 million, but as a share of UT's total
operating budget, the state's contribution fell from 24 percent to 14.4
percent.)

Instead, Perry is talking about cultural change and different priorities.

Sullivan, who grew up in San Jose, accompanied Perry on his visit to Stanford.

"What I got from the conversation with Stanford was that the culture of
entrepreneurship - the expectation that their faculty start businesses and work
in the private sector intermittently - has been indoctrinated into the school
and has greatly helped the development of technology and technology jobs in
California," he said.

Sullivan says the governor's office is having conversations about how to do
that.

He suggested that the agents of change might already be on board.

"UT has a pretty new core group of deans and other leaders in departments that
have come from California and New England," Sullivan said. "I think those folks
would be able to help determine what good things about technology centers in
California can we beg, borrow or steal, and what are the things we want to
avoid."

Sullivan says Perry believes Texas' climate of low taxes and less regulation
gives the state an advantage in luring university talent and companies.

"The culture and excellence in places like the University of Michigan and
University of California have to be in serious jeopardy because of the economic
straits that the states find themselves in," Sullivan says. "By continuing the
spiral of responding to economic downturns with more regulation and higher taxes
is just going to drive more of those jobs and innovators elsewhere."

Sullivan says venture capital - the lifeblood of Silicon Valley - may follow.

"To some extent, this VC stuff is chicken and egg," Sullivan said. "Capital is
pretty darn mobile. So if you start to be known as a center of innovation,
technology-related business development, people are going to start paying a lot
more attention to Austin."

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617

Silicon Valley Austin
ENTREPRENEURIAL CULTURE
Venture capital, 2010 $5.9 billion $344.4 million
Initial public offerings, 2010 11 4
Patent registrations, 2009 10,000-plus 2,700
EMPLOYMENT
Total metro-area jobs 1.3 million, up 1.1% 774,000, up 2%
Unemployment rate 10.7% 6.8%
Per capita income, 2009 $33,165 $30,063
(Jobs measured December 2009-10)
TECH INDUSTRY
Biggest local company Apple Inc. Dell Inc.
by market value $304 billion $28.2 billion
EDUCATION
Bachelor's degree 25% 27%
Graduate/professional degree 19% 15%
Sources: Index of Silicon Valley, American Community Survey, Texas Workforce
Commission, Yahoo Finance, Greater Austin of Chamber of Commerce



LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Outages, hail, funnel clouds, but only a drop in the bucket

BYLINE: Isadora Vail AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 638 words


The 3 inches of rain that fell in parts of Austin on Thursday was the most the
city has seen in a single day since September.

But meteorologists said it didn't make a dent in the region's drought.

Several storms pelted the area with various sizes of hail and caused power
outages for thousands of households and several schools.

Funnel clouds were reported in Hays County along Texas 123 and around San
Marcos, but none touched down.

The morning storms were caused by a wave of low pressure that came up through
Mexico and found favorable atmospheric conditions for rain in Texas, Lower
Colorado River Authority meteorologist Bob Rose said.

The area still has a long way to go in terms of drought relief, he said.

"At least in the short term, this will green things up, but it's sort of a drop
in the bucket, because it's been so dry since October," Rose said. "This really
didn't generate real runoff for lakes or aquifers because so much got absorbed.
The overall drought is still here, though this caused some temporary
improvements."

He said that, with summer approaching, the likelihood that the drought will end
soon is slim.

"It's May, and this is the point in the year where we see the highest chance for
rain - like we saw (Thursday) - but I'm not seeing a big change in the dry
pattern. Not yet."

The rain total recorded at Camp Mabry broke the record for May 12 set 100 years
ago. The last time Austin received that much rain in one day was when remnants
of Tropical Storm Hermine pelted parts of the city with double-digit inches of
rain .

Power outages throughout the city Thursday were mostly caused by wind gusts of
up to 42 mph knocking tree limbs onto power lines and lightning striking power
equipment, said Austin Energy spokesman Ed Clark. At one point, about 14,000
customers were without power, but that number was down to about 580 Thursday
night.

Austin's Reagan High School and Ridgetop and Becker elementary schools were
without power until about 4 p.m., school district spokeswoman Roxanne Evans
said. At the height of the storms, 16 Austin schools had power outages, she
said.

In the Westlake area, St. Stephen's School said they had spotty outages but no
changes were made to the school day.

Several high school baseball games in Cedar Park, Georgetown and Austin were
rescheduled because of the downpour, and two state high school golf tournaments
were delayed until the afternoon.

Sean Peterson, a rapper and DJ, said that instead of his normal bike ride from
his Bouldin Creek neighborhood, he had to take a bus downtown for some studio
work. The rain was "nice, but not life-changing," he said.

Reeda Hoefer, three weeks into a cross-country road-trip with her husband, said
they didn't leave their hotel until noon Thursday because of the rough weather.
They narrowly missed tornadoes in Alabama and flooding on the Mississippi during
their trip, so, she said, some bad weather was due.

"We feel kind of responsible that we brought that rain with us," she said as she
ate at Hey Cupcake on South Congress Avenue.

The Town Lake Animal Center had an influx of cats and dogs that came in between
Wednesday night's rain and Thursday's storms. Officials said 44 dogs and cats
were brought in as strays or lost, and temporary caging is being used until
homes are found.

On the positive side, meteorologists said the storms left behind a pleasant and
drier climate. Today's high is expected to be in the mid-80s, and the low could
dip into the 50s , Rose said.

This weekend and next week should be similar, Rose said, with highs in the lower
80s, and lows in the 50s.

ivail@statesman.com; 445-3763

Additional material by staff writers Claudia Grisales, David Doolittle and Asher
Price.

(GRAPHIC BOX)

Camp Mabry Rainfall, in inches

Accumulated total: 2.9"

National Weather Service

3.81" Total rainfall at Camp Mabry, Jan. 1-May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 29, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 581 words


AUSTIN COMMUNITY COLLEGE

FREE PREP COURSE EASES

TRANSITION TO COLLEGE

The application period has opened for ACC's Transitions Program, a free course
that prepares high school graduates and GED diploma holders for freshman-level
classes. The course covers reading, writing, math, study strategies, career
counseling and financial aid.

"Without the Transitions Program, I am not sure if I would have continued my
education after receiving my GED," ACC student Marcia Salazar said. "The program
has enabled me to look at college in a different light by giving me preparation
before actually beginning the college process."

The program covers the cost of textbooks and Texas Higher Education Assessment
exam fees. Students who complete the course receive a $100 stipend, and those
who go on to earn at least a C in an ACC credit course get a $250 stipend,
according to a college news release.

The 10-week class begins Sept. 6 and meets Mondays to Thursdays from 5:45 to
9:30 p.m. at the Eastview campus, 3401 Webberville Road. Current and former
developmental education students are encouraged to apply. To sign up or get more
information, visit www.austincc.edu/transitions or contact Charlene Gill,
Transitions Program coordinator, at cgill@austincc.edu or 223-5122.

TEXAS GRANTS

TIGHTER ELIGIBILITY RULES WEIGHED

Higher Education Commissioner Raymund Paredes suggested Thursday that it might
make sense to tighten some of the rules for students receiving a Texas Grant,
the state's main form of need-based financial aid.

One possibility is to limit students to four years of the grant. It's generally
available for five years now. In addition, the academic progress standard could
be tightened to require recipients to earn at least 30 credits a year.

Without such changes, only 30 percent of new students eligible for a Texas Grant
will get one as a result of funding cuts by the Legislature, Paredes said.
Students graduating from Texas high schools by and large come from low-income
families, and "they won't be able to go to college unless we find some sort of
financial aid for them," he said.

Paredes did not make a formal recommendation to the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board. Legislative approval also would be needed.

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS

ESTUARINE RESEARCH UNIT OPENS

A new research unit has opened at UT's Marine Science Institute in Port Aransas.

The Estuarine Research Center, with three floors of state-of-the-art
laboratories, is also the headquarters for the Mission-Aransas National
Estuarine Research Reserve, a 185,708-acre area established in 2006 by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and managed by the institute.

"Estuaries are some of the most economically and ecologically important places
on Earth," Lee Fuiman, director of the Marine Science Institute, said in a
statement. "They are where human populations meet the sea, and they provide many
services that we depend upon. Threats to our estuaries, such as last year's
Deepwater Horizon oil spill, hypoxia (low levels of oxygen) and climate change,
underscore the importance of estuarine research."

PROFESSOR NAMED DEAN IN CHICAGO

Daniel Rodriguez, a UT law professor, has been named dean of Northwestern
University's School of Law .

Rodriguez came to UT in 2007 from the University of San Diego School of Law,
where he served as dean. He is a specialist in administrative law, local
government law, state constitutional law and statutory interpretation. His
appointment at Northwestern is effective Jan. 1.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

The remaking of the world

BYLINE: Charles Ealy AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 966 words


Historian Charles C. Mann likes to poke holes in conventional wisdom. Five years
ago, in "1491," he challenged notions about pre-Columbian America, arguing that
native societies were far more populated and sophisticated than previously
thought.

In his new history, "1493," which was released last week, Mann continues to
revel in putting a new spin on the past, arguing that the voyage of Christopher
Columbus in 1492 "did not mark the discovery of a New World, but its creation,"
primarily by interconnecting civilizations and serving as the starting point of
what is now referred to as globalization.

Mann gives much of the credit - but none of the blame - for his latest research
to Alfred W. Crosby, who helped create a new academic discipline: environmental
history. Crosby wrote "The Columbian Exchange" (1974) and "Ecological
Imperialism: The Biological Expansion of Europe 900-1900" (1986) and is
professor emeritus of history, geography and American Studies at the University
of Texas.

Mann and others describe environmental history as providing biological and
geographical explanations for why Europeans were able to succeed in the
Americas. And a big part of that success, Mann argues, can be attributed to the
Columbian Exchange, or the beginnings of worldwide trade (again, globalization).

Mann is aware of the polarized views about globalization, with both celebrants
and opponents. But he tries to take a middle road. "From the outset
globalization brought both enormous economic gains and ecological and social
tumult that threatened to offset those gains," he says.

Mann's research also is partly aimed at correcting what he sees as a bias in
American history, which is often described in terms of Europeans entering a
wilderness.

For centuries, "most of the newcomers were African and the land was not empty,
but filled with millions of indigenous people. Much of the great encounter
between two separate halves of the world thus was less a meeting of Europe and
America than a meeting of Africans and Indians - a relationship forged both in
the cage of slavery and in the uprisings against it," he says.

The interplay between these two groups is a "hidden history that researchers are
only now beginning to unravel," he says.

The four-part book begins by focusing on the Jamestown settlement in what is now
Virginia, where the introduction of tobacco from South America and the
microscopic creatures that cause malaria and yellow fever from Europe forever
changed the landscape - and U.S. history.

The second section deals with trade across the Pacific, with the rise of
shipments of silver from Spanish America to the Philippines and then to China.
It also explores the effects of exporting sweet potatoes and corn to China.

The third section explores the effects of trade on the eventual agricultural and
industrial revolutions. And the fourth deals with the human consequences of this
Columbian exchange, mainly the slave trade.

Mann cheerfully drops tidbits that challenge assumptions throughout "1493." For
instance:

* Before Columbus' time, the East Coast of the United States was deforested,
mainly because indigenous people used fire to clear areas for agriculture and
hunting. When the Europeans came, they brought diseases that caused a population
crash. And the result of these two factors was an ecological rebound, with
forests taking over abandoned fields. Mann says that some researchers think that
the reforestation drew so much carbon dioxide from the air that it caused a
three-century cold snap.

* Slavery became commonplace in the South in part because slaves from West
Africa were better able to survive malaria in warm climates than indentured
servants from Europe. The reason? West and Central Africans have an inherited
immunity to malaria. Plantation owners didn't understand this, but over time,
they began to realize that Africans had better chances at survival.
"Biologically speaking, they were fitter, which is another way of saying that in
these places they were - loaded words! - genetically superior," Mann says. He
goes on to say, "Racial theorists of the last century claimed that genetic
superiority led to social superiority. What happened to Africans illustrates, if
nothing else, the pitfalls of this glib argument."

* By 1611, Potisí, in what is now Bolivia, was as big as London, and it was the
highest, richest city in the world because of its silver mines.

* Potatoes from South Africa had a profound impact on the rest of the world.
Through trade, China acquired sweet potatoes and maize, and the nation's
population began to boom, in part because of the new sources of food. The same
happened in Europe. "In the century after the potato's introduction Europe's
numbers roughly doubled," Mann says. Mann, of course, also deals with the
negative effects of becoming overly reliant on one or two crops, and discusses
the famines that occurred with the rise of plant diseases.

* The introduction of rubber trees from Brazil to Asia has led to drastic
changes in that ecosystem. The trees' "most intense growth occurs in April, as
the dry season's hottest, driest point. To propel growth, the roots suck up
water from three to six feet below the surface." And this pattern has caused
streams to dry up and forced villages to move because of the lack of drinking
water.

While Mann revels in these observations, he's trying to do much more than punch
holes in conventional wisdom; he's trying to piece together an elaborate,
alternative history that describes profound changes in the world since the
original voyage of Columbus.

What's most surprising is that he manages to do this in such an engaging way. He
writes with an incredibly dry wit.

cealy@statesman.com; 445-3931

1493
 Uncovering the New World Columbus Created
 Charles C. Mann
 Alfred A. Knopf, $30.50



LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 15, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Amid cost-cutting, some area districts rehiring teachers, mulling pay raises

BYLINE: Melissa B. Taboada AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1822 words


Central Texas school districts are still in belt-tightening mode, mothballing
schools and increasing class sizes and teacher workloads.

However, many are considering some strategic spending.

Austin is retaining its full day prekindergarten program despite state budget
cuts. Pflugerville saved almost half of 140 jobs it put on the chopping block.
And in the Hays school district - which just five months ago eliminated 75
positions - teachers are being rehired and could get raises of as much as 7
percent under a plan to bring salaries more in line with what workers in other
area school districts earn.

Superintendent Jeremy Lyon said Hays is at the bottom of the teacher pay scale
compared with 16 other Central Texas school districts. After state lawmakers
didn't slash public education funding as deeply as feared and after federal
grants for jobs and salaries came through, Lyon saw an opportunity.

"We can't afford not to do it," Lyon said, adding that the district has been a
training ground for new teachers who would later leave for other area districts
and better pay. "We're not underestimating the impact of the state budget
crisis, but, frankly, the federal job money gave us the jump to do this.
Strategically, this is the time " when other districts are freezing salaries. We
can make up a lot of ground fast by choosing to do this this year."

The Hays district earlier this year cut $3.6 million from its budget. The
district previously thought it would need to cut up to $7 million. Then
lawmakers firmed up funding, and Hays got $2.4 million in federal education jobs
money. In recent weeks, administrators hired 48 new teachers, in addition to
those who were laid off and then rehired as vacant positions became available.

Although Hays may be the only Austin-area district to include raises in 2011-12,
it isn't alone in reversing some budget cuts.

Six months ago, hundreds of school positions were slashed throughout Central
Texas. Language programs were eliminated, and athletic offerings were
diminished. The Austin school district declared a state of financial exigency,
or fiscal emergency, which cleared the way to eliminate 1,153 positions, even
those under contract.

But as the final state numbers come in - lawmakers cut $4 billion after changing
funding formulas - most districts are loosening their belts a bit.

Many school boards had voted to lay off teachers and increase elementary school
class sizes, anticipating that the state would lift the 22-to-1 student-teacher
ratio cap. The cap remains as it is, so districts must swell the teaching ranks
again.

Across the state, hundreds of Dallas district workers took buyouts last spring.
In late July, the district held a job fair to help the 800 district employees
whose jobs were eliminated find new positions.

The Round Rock district, using $6.9 million in federal funds, rehired all the
teachers it had previously laid off . The district also hired new teachers to
staff a new elementary school.

"Few of us had any idea how long it would take to present a balanced budget,"
Austin Superintendent Meria Carstarphen said. "Now that the Legislature has
worked to its end, we have a much better picture of what our budget looks like
for the next two years."

Austin, which is keeping a conservative approach by building up its reserves,
has proposed a $703.3 million operating budget for 2011-12. Under a new law that
takes effect in September, the district will remain in a state of exigency until
the declaration expires in August 2012, unless trustees vote to end it sooner.

The Austin district's proposed budget includes a new early childhood program, an
early college program at Reagan High School, transportation for students who
attend magnet programs and money to hire 35 new teachers because the state ratio
cap wasn't lifted. Austin had laid off 568 teachers; 254 of them have since been
placed in new positions.

Each of those programs at one point were at risk of elimination, but the state
cut Austin's funding $35.6 million in 2011-12, compared with previous projected
cuts of $79.1 million.

Austin's budget does not include salary increases or hardship leave, which was
among the least-supported budget cuts according to a 2010 survey of district
employees and district residents.

Rae Nwosu, co-president of the labor group Education Austin, praised the Hays
district's plans for raises and said she wishes Austin administrators would have
done the same.

"It's a good recruiting strategy to attract some of the best people and school
employees and (get) a choice of your applicants," Nwosu said. "Can you imagine
the impact that is going to have on the climate of the campuses overall? I hope
other districts see what Hays did and take note. We need to do something for
(Austin) employees, too, because we keep taking, taking, taking.

"When you " take away the resources, what are you saying about kids being a
priority?" she said.

Austin's 2011-12 spending plan remains more than $500,000 over budget, and
officials plan on pulling money from reserves to cover the difference. The
district has about $140 million in reserves and can spend about $8.2 million
while staying within state guidelines for minimum reserves and having enough
savings to self-insure.

"The board is going to have to think about, not only the strategic priorities
and balancing the budget, but also where we stand with our employees who have
taken on more of the cost burden," said Nicole Conley-Abram , the district's
chief financial officer. "They've had frozen salaries for the last two years. "
We've implemented hard stuff, low-hanging fruit, so what's left are those things
that we didn't want to touch initially."

The cuts will be felt in the classroom. School board President Mark Williams at
a budget workshop last week asked district staff to look into restoring money
for a dropout prevention program.

"We have students where the traditional model is not working," Williams said.

District officials don't expect things to be easier next year. The state cuts
will mean $58 million less for Austin in 2012-13 than what the district would
have received under the previous funding formula. Officials say that again would
preclude raises. The Austin district may ask voters to approve a property tax
rate increase as early as November. Austin trustees could also call for a May
2012 or May 2013 bond election.

Austin is among several area districts - including Del Valle, Leander and
Pflugerville - that are increasing the portion of their property tax rates that
goes to pay off debt.

The Pflugerville district, which has an operations rate of $1.04 per $100 of
property valuation and a debt rate of 42 cents, will raise the debt portion 8
cents. By paying some debt off early, the district expects to save taxpayers
$3.6 million over 15 years.

Pflugerville originally anticipated cutting 140 jobs for 2011-12. Federal job
grants allowed the district to save 65 of those jobs. Cutting the other 75
positions saved $3.2 million in payroll costs, officials said.

In Leander, where the district has opened new schools annually, sometimes as
many as three in one year, the district will leave two new schools dormant for
one year.

The district, which has 33,320 students, was able to rehire 143 teachers who
were cut during layoffs. It used the $4.9 million in federal funds it received
to reimburse previous hires and salaries.

mtaboada@statesman.com;

445-3620

School district operating budgets at a glance
 Austin
2011-12 enrollment: 87,000
2010-11 budget: $742.9 million
 Proposed 2011-12  budget: $703.3 million
2010-11 tax rate: $1.227  per $100 of assessed valuation, with $1.079 for
operations and 14.8 cents for debt repayment
 Proposed 2011-12 tax rate: $1.242, with $1.079 for operations and 16.3 cents
for debt
 Tax impact: Owner of an average-value home, $244,799 after exemptions, would
pay $3,040.40 annually, an increase of $26.98.
 Key points: Eliminates 1,153 jobs. Of the 568 teachers who were eliminated,
254 were placed in new positions, 152 resigned or retired, and 162 still had
not found new jobs in the district as of late last week . Includes full day
prekindergarten, adds a new early childhood program and an early college
program at Reagan High School.
 Public hearing: 7 p.m. today ,  1111 W. Sixth St. Budget to be adopted Aug.
22.
 Hays
2011-12 enrollment: 15,825
2010-11 budget: $116.5 million
 Proposed 2011-12 budget: $111.1 million
2010-11 tax rate: $1.4613, with $1.04 for operations and 42 cents for debt
 Proposed 2011-12 tax rate: unchanged
 Tax impact: Owner of an average-value home of $116,754 after exemptions would
pay $1,706.13, up $11.37 from last year.
 Key points: Gives teachers raises of up to 7 percent; other employees could
get 3 percent raises. Pays for all Advanced Placement tests for students in
those courses. Expands a science, technology, engineering and math magnet
program.
 Public hearing, adoption: 6:15 p.m. Aug. 29 at the Hays High School Career and
 Tech Building, 4800 Jack C. Hays Trail, Buda
 Leander
2011-12 enrollment: 33,320
2010-11 budget: $236.5 million
 Proposed 2011-12 budget: $224.7 million
2010-11 tax rate: $1.4548, with $1.04 for operations and 41 cents for debt
2011-12 tax rate: $1.499810, with $1.04 for operations and nearly 46  cents for
 debt
 Tax impact: Owner of an average-value home, $221,233 after exemptions, would
pay about $3,318.07, up $118.93 from last year.
 Key points: Two new schools scheduled to open this fall will be mothballed for
 a year. Increases elementary school class sizes . Rehired 143 teachers who
were laid off. Won't impose furloughs or a weeklong summer closure.
 Public hearing, adoption: 7 p.m. Thursday , Cedar Park Middle School, 2100 Sun
 Chase Blvd.
 Pflugerville
2011-12 enrollment: 23,219
2010-11 budget: $151.9 million
 Proposed 2011-12 budget: $154 million
2010-11 tax rate: $1.46, with $1.04 for operations and 42 cents for debt
 Proposed 2011-12 tax rate: $1.54, with $1.04 for operations and 50 cents for
debt
 Tax impact: Owner of an average-value home, $142,206 after exemptions, would
pay $2,189.97, up $63.36 from last year.
 Key points: Originally anticipated cutting 140 jobs but saved 65. Cutting 75
jobs would save $3.2 million in payroll costs.
 Public hearing, adoption: 6 p.m. Thursday , boardroom, 1401 W. Pecan St.
 Round Rock
2011-12 enrollment: 43,962
2010-11 budget: $336 million
2011-12 budget: 334 million
2010-11 tax rate: $1.38, with $1.04 for operations and 34 cents for debt
2011-12 tax rate: no change
 Tax impact: Owner of an average-value home, $195,660 after exemptions, will
pay about $2,700.11, down $36 from last year.
 Key points: Includes startup and staffing costs for Herrington Elementary
School in the northeastern part of the district. Cuts the Drug Abuse Resistance
 Education program. Replaces bilingual education with a dual-language model.
Reduces the number of copiers and fax machines.
 Adopted: June 21
(GRAPHICS BOX:  SEE MICROFILM)
Area school districts' budget changes



LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

GARDEN CARLENDAR

BYLINE: Nicole Alvarado AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E03

LENGTH: 621 words


"Central Texas Gardening 101." 10 a.m. to noon. today. Zilker Botanical Garden,
2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. www.tcmaster gardeners.org. 854-9600.

"Growing Fruits, Nuts and Berries in Central Texas." 10 a.m. today. Presented by
Jim Kamas, Texas AgriLife Extension fruit specialist. The Natural Gardener, 8648
Old Bee Cave Road. Free; call to confirm. Class is outdoors, seating is limited.
288-6113. www.naturalgardeneraustin.com.

Texas Bamboo Society meeting. 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. today. Taniguchi Japanese
Garden, Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. 929-9565.
www.bamboocentral.net.

Wells Branch Garden Guild meeting. Noon today. Wells Branch Library, 150001
Wells Port Drive. Free. 989-3188. wblibrary.org.

"Garden Photography." 7 p.m. Monday. Austin Pond Society meeting. Zilker
Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. Visitors welcome.
254-644-1193. www.austinpondsociety.org.

"Climate Change, Biodiversity and Texas." 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Tuesday. Wild Basin
Wilderness meeting room, 805 N. Capital of Texas Highway (Loop 360). Native
Plant Society of Texas Austin Chapter meeting with guest speaker Wendy Gordon of
Texas Parks and Wildlife. Free. 472-1062. www.npsot.org/Austin/.

"Bird Gardening: It's Not Just for Backyards!" 7 p.m. Thursday. Travis Audubon
Society meeting with guest speaker Jane Tillman. Fellowship Hall, Westminster
Presbyterian Church, 3208 Exposition Blvd. Free. 300-BIRD.
www.travisaudubon.org.

Grape Pruning. 10 a.m. Jan. 22. The Natural Gardener, 8648 Old Bee Cave Road.
Free; call to confirm. Class is outdoors; seating is limited. 288-6113.
www.naturalgardeneraustin.com.

Austin Area Begonia Society Branch meeting. 2 p.m. Jan. 23. Greene Room, Zilker
Botanical Gardens, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. 327-0401. www.begonias.org.

"New and Old Favorite Gardening Tools." 7 p.m. Jan. 27. The Garden Club of
Austin, Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. 444-8765.
www.thegardenclubofaustin.org.

"The Latest on Oak Wilt." 9:30 a.m. Jan. 27. Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220
Barton Springs Road. Free. www.violetcrowngardenclub.org. 345-3164.

"Everything's Coming Up Roses." 10 a.m. to noon. Feb. 5. Zilker Botanical
Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. www.tcmastergardeners.org. 854-9600.

"It Is Time To Prune Roses." 11 a.m. Feb. 5. Bring pruning shears. Call in case
of bad weather. It's A Jungle, 907 Kramer Lane. Free. 837-1205.
www.itsajungleaustin.com.

"Organic Gardening Techniques: Gardening in Harmony with Nature." 9:15 a.m. Feb.
7. Baca Center, 301 W. Bagdad St., Building 2. Free for Baca members, others $1
walk-in fee. 512-255-0713. www.roundrocktexas.gov/bacacenter.

"(Antique) Roses Are Easier Than You Think." 10 a.m. Feb. 12. The Natural
Gardener, 8648 Old Bee Cave Road. Free; call to confirm. Class is outdoors;
seating is limited. 288-6113. www.naturalgardeneraustin.com.

"Planning and Planting the Spring Vegetable Garden." 10 a.m. to noon Feb. 12.
Sunshine Community Garden, 4814 Sunshine Drive. Free. www.tcmastergardeners.org.
854-9600.

Orchids. 11 a.m. Feb. 19. Bring one plant in a pot six inches or less to be
repotted at no charge. It's A Jungle, 907 Kramer Lane. Free. 837-1205.
www.itsajungleaustin.com.

"Taking Care of the Lawn." 10 a.m. to noon Feb. 19. Sunset Valley City Hall,
3205 Jones Road, Sunset Valley. Free. www.tcmastergardeners.org. 854-9600.

"An Evening with Cheryl Hazeltine." 7 p.m. Feb. 24. The Garden Club of Austin,
Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. 444-8765.
www.thegardenclubofaustin.org.

"Chickens in the Garden." 10 a.m. to noon. March 12. Zilker Botanical Garden,
2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. www.tcmastergardeners.org. 854-9600.

- Compiled by Nicole Alvarado,

garden@statesman.com; 445-1789

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 12, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Report: Perry blames comptroller in Amazon row

BYLINE: Barry Harrell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 472 words


A total of 119 people will lose their jobs when online retail giant Amazon.com
closes a suburban Dallas distribution center amid a dispute with the state over
millions in uncollected state sales taxes, according to a letter the company
sent Friday to the Texas Workforce Commission.

Also on Friday, Gov. Rick Perry, on a visit to Washington, criticized
Comptroller Susan Combs, who last year sent Amazon a bill for $269 million, and
said he will work with legislators to try to prevent Amazon from leaving Texas.

Perry told the Washington Examiner website that Combs "made that decision
independently" to pursue Amazon.

"That is a problem, and I would suggest to you that we need to look at that
decision that our comptroller made. I would tell you, from my perspective,
that's not the decision I would have made," he said.

"The good news is that the Legislature is in town for our (biennial) session.
Hopefully someone will be able to craft some legislation - and actually do it -
before Amazon walks out the door," Perry said.

Amazon has said it will close the facility because of the state's "unfavorable
regulatory climate."

The state says that Amazon is responsible for the tax it has not collected on
online sales made in Texas. The $269 million includes the taxes, plus penalties
and interest, from 2005 to 2009.

The state is seeking money from Amazon because its distribution center is in
Irving. Under a 1992 U.S. Supreme Court decision, that physical presence means
Amazon potentially could be required to collect sales tax on transactions in
Texas, according to legal experts.

The comptroller's office said last year that it has sent demands for payment to
other online retailers similar to what it sent to Amazon.

Combs has estimated that Texas loses $600 million a year in uncollected sales
tax on online purchases.

On Thursday, Allen Spelce, spokesman for the comptroller's office, had said that
although "we regret losing any business in the state of Texas," that doesn't
change the state's position.

"We feel like if you have a business presence in the state of Texas, you're no
different than any other business in the state of Texas, and you still owe sales
tax," Spelce said.

Amazon, which reported $34 billion in sales last year, has been the target of
numerous lawsuits filed by other states seeking sales taxes on online purchases.

The Seattle-based company said in a securities filing last year that it intended
to fight the demand. Amazon filed a lawsuit last month, demanding that the state
produce the audit that it used to arrive at the $269 million figure.

The letter to the Workforce Commission is required under a federal law that
covers certain types of employers when they shut down sites with 50 or more
workers.

Amazon spokeswoman Mary Osako did not return messages seeking comment.

bharrell@statesman.com; 912-2960

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Amazon tax bill no secret, Combs says

BYLINE: Barry Harrell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 780 words


In a letter to three state lawmakers, Texas Comptroller Susan Combs on Wednesday
disputed contentions that her office hasn't explained to Amazon.com Inc. how it
arrived at its assessment against the online retailer for millions in
uncollected sales taxes.

Combs also rebutted an assertion - made by Gov. Rick Perry among others - that
only retailers with storefronts in Texas must collect sales taxes.

In her letter, she cited part of the Texas tax code that says that any entity
"engaged in business" in Texas must collect sales taxes. The Amazon debate comes
amid efforts by legislators to close the state's budget shortfall. Combs has
estimated that the state loses $600 million a year in uncollected tax on online
sales.

Last year, she sent a $269 million assessment to Seattle-based Amazon, the
world's largest online retailer , which responded with a lawsuit saying it had
been denied some details of the audit used to determine the amount.

Last week, Amazon said it would close its Irving distribution center, cutting
119 jobs, and accused the state of having an "unfavorable regulatory climate."

On Tuesday, state Reps. Pete Gallego, D-Alpine, Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio,
and Jessica Farrar, D-Houston, sent Combs a letter calling on her to explain the
assessment, which Amazon has disputed.

The comptroller's office says Amazon is responsible for sales tax it did not
collect on Internet sales made in Texas between 2005 and 2009 because it has a
distribution center in Irving.

Under a 1992 U.S. Supreme Court decision, having a physical presence in Texas
means Amazon potentially could be required to collect sales tax on transactions
in Texas.

In their letter, Gallego, Castro and Farrar said it is "fundamentally unfair" to
tell Amazon it owes millions in uncollected sales taxes without saying how the
state arrived at that figure.

"Texans have never accepted 'taxation without representation,' nor should they
accept 'taxation without explanation,'" the letter says.

In her response Wednesday, Combs said that "any suggestion by a taxpayer audited
by this office that they were not provided with the basis of the tax assessment
is inaccurate."

Combs said Amazon's lawyers asked for the detail behind the assessment and that
her office sent that information last September. She said Amazon then asked for
additional information that her office has declined to release, saying it is
protected by attorney-client privilege.

In a Dec. 16 opinion, the Texas attorney general's office agreed with Combs. In
January, Amazon filed a lawsuit seeking to obtain the information through the
courts.

Combs expressed regret at Amazon's decision to close its Irving facility but
wrote that "Amazon's decision to leave the state does not change our legal
obligation to apply tax law fairly and uniformly."

"To make an exception would create an unfair advantage for Amazon, to the clear
detriment of all other businesses in the state abiding by the law."

In her letter to Gallego, Castro and Farrar, Combs also disputed contentions
that Amazon isn't required to collect sales tax because it doesn't have a
physical "storefront."

Perry made that argument last week in an interview with a Washington newspaper
in which he criticized Combs' handling of Amazon.

"You couldn't go in and buy anything out of that store, and that, historically,
has been the way we defined whether you pay taxes or not - if you had a
storefront. This obviously didn't have a storefront. It was specifically there
to manage products that need to be shipped out," Perry said.

But in her letter, Combs cited Section 151.107 of the Texas tax code, which
requires any entity that is "engaged in business" in the state to collect sales
tax. That section defines being "engaged in business" as having "directly, or
indirectly through a subsidiary or agent by whatever name, an office, place of
distribution, sales or sample room or place, warehouse, storage space or any
other place of business."

"You don't need to have a storefront to be engaged in business," she wrote.

Combs also testified Wednesday before the state Senate Finance Committee, where
Chairman Steve Ogden, R-Bryan, asked her about Amazon.

Combs told the committee that the relevant provision in the tax code dates to
the 1960s, when retailers sold through catalogs rather than the Internet. But
the fundamental issue is the same, she said.

"It is our belief that this is a very, very clear issue about nexus," Combs
said. "If they don't fall under this statute, which is pretty plain speak, then
I would like them to prove it to us."

Ogden said he is sympathetic to Combs' position.

Additional material from staff writer Kate Alexander.

bharrell@statesman.com; 912-2960

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1182 words


Failed experiment

Re: March 16 editorial "Touched by endless horror and heartache."

Nuclear power is an 80-year old military experiment that has failed at the
commercial level: Three Mile Island, Chernobyl, Daiichi.

It is a technology buttressed only by engineering hubris and apologies from
failed policy makers and shallow newspaper editorialists. The only energy
solution provided by nuclear power is one based upon default, not merit. The
proof lies in the reality that even today, large-scale nuclear power operations
cannot be built, run or insured without taxpayer guarantees.

The need for new sources of electrical power is genuine, but nuclear power is a
dud. Time to move on.

Travis Tomjack

ttomjack@austin.rr.com

Austin

Informed consent

Under the rubric of giving a woman the uber-informed consent that Texas
lawmakers think she needs, both House Bill 15 and Senate Bill 16 mandate a
medical procedure (a sonogram) before a woman may have a second medical
procedure, an elective abortion.

The problem with requiring informed consent for the abortion medical procedure
is that it tramples on the toes of the informed consent of the ultrasound
medical procedure.

Because consent means voluntary choice or permission, here's a question for our
lawmakers: How voluntary is consent for performing a medically unnecessary
medical procedure when it is a condition precedent to having a desired medical
procedure? Surely the Texas attorney general should be able to answer that
question and more concerning these bills.

Or did our lawmakers even ask him for an opinion?

Elizabeth DeBusk Babcock

Corpus Christi

With respect to HB 15, forcing a woman planning to have an abortion to have a
sonogram first, which may include an intravaginal probe, and forcing her to view
the images and listen to the doctor describe the images and then listening to
the heartbeat, if present, is tantamount to rape and the emotional distress that
follows.

What state is this that would allow women to be treated this way? This is just a
cruel and invasive means to prevent what is already legal - an abortion. Using
women and this legislation to circumvent the law is wrong. The end does not
justify the means.

Dr. Maureen Swenson

Austin

Money doesn't equal smarts

Greed is what's mine is mine and what's yours is mine. In 2010 greed was
personified by Wall Street. In 2011 it's the teacher unions.

They say more money equals better education, yet the data do not support this.
The state with the highest SAT scores is Iowa, where spending per student ranks
about in the middle of the national average. The lowest SAT scores are in Maine,
which spends the fifth-most money per student in the nation. So there seems to
be no direct correlation between money spent per student and the quality of
education. (Oh, by the way, Texas is 45th in SAT scores.)

The lesson: Less money does not mean a poorer education. And when the well is
dry, you have to do better with less. That is the real world the rest of us live
in.

Webster Russell

Georgetown

Go away, Peter Pan

Does Gov. Rick Perry keep track of what he's saying? Right after he defeated
Tony Sanchez in 2002, he said he was ready to start working with the
Legislature. The only two items that were off the table were health care and
education because there was "no money."

In 2006, amid lots of umbrage from homeowners over local school tax rates, he
promoted the notion that business taxes could replace property taxes as a way to
pay for schools.

Fast forward to today. The business taxes never materialized and now it's the
teachers and school boards he blames because they can't pay their bills. I don't
think too many teachers is the problem, I think we have one governor too many.

Let's stop acting like Peter Pan ("I won't grow up. I don't want to go to
school.") and start acting like adults and support our children.

Russell Chichester

Temple

Supporting NPR

Some in Congress are again talking about defunding National Public Radio. They
ask: Why should the government be funding a national radio station? Indeed, why
should the government fund anything for the arts? Let the private sector handle
it.

Before they take this path, I would ask: Have you ever stood on our National
Mall (a public park, paid for by public dollars) and heard the Marine Band play
the "Battle Hymn of the Republic?" Ever visited Mount Rushmore (a public work of
art paid for by American taxes)?

Some of the things we do as Americans, we do for the common good. We want
everyone to have access to the arts - music, theater, sculpture and, yes, "All
Things Considered."

Shannon FitzPatrick

San Marcos

Trouble brewing

Re: March 13 article "As coffee prices rise, unlikely culprit may be at fault."

I was taken aback by the headline on an article that went on to explain how
changing weather patterns related to global warming are affecting coffee crops
in Columbia. There is nothing "unlikely" about it. It is a completely
predictable result, and was, in fact, predicted at least as long ago as 2007 by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

Eleanour Quinn

Austin

No national sales tax

Re: March 13 commentary "Desperate times call for boldness of America 2.0."

Scott Burns consistently offers excellent investment advice. This column,
however, on a new tax system, a national sales tax, is a replay of the most
regressive tax system imaginable.

Please consider the disparity between the expenditure of $100 for a family of
four with an income of $2,000 a month and a family of four with an income of
$20,000 a month. Why not simply have a variable income tax based on all income -
no deductions for this or that?

Thomas Camp

Austin

Follow Hutchison's lead

U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison has fought against wasteful, unnecessary
government spending throughout her career. And with our debt on track to surpass
the size of our economy, it has never been more urgent or vital for the
government to live within its means.

During the largest expansion of government in our country's history, Hutchison
has opposed this out-of-control spending, like the nearly $800 billion stimulus
package and the $1 trillion health care law. I hope more of our elected
officials will follow her lead to cut spending and put this country back on
track.

Joe Savage

Georgetown

Help retired teachers

Retired teachers in Williamson County are joining teachers from all over Texas
to ask our legislators for their support in funding the defined benefit plan for
pensions for retired teachers. These teachers have contributed to the Teacher
Retirement System, which was established by the Legislature in 1937. The current
Legislature is working diligently on the state budget, but to cut support for
retired teachers is unfair and financially weak.

There are 4,400 residents of Williamson County who receive an annuity from TRS,
thereby bringing approximately $9 million into our local economy. (Numbers
provided by "Inside Line," a publication of the Texas Retired Teacher
Association.)

Please join us in asking for support for the bills that approve funding for this
year's state budget. If you can read this, thank a teacher.

Mildred Igo

Georgetown

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2011



CORRECTION: * A letter published Tuesday contained an editing error in a dollar
amount. It should have said: There are about 4,400 residents of Williamson
County who receive an annuity from the Teacher Retirement System, thereby
bringing approximately $99 million into our local economy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 26, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bills would take illegal sodomy ban off books

BYLINE: Ben Wermund AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1142 words


"Homosexual conduct" is still on the books as a crime in Texas - eight years
after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the law unconstitutional.

But legislation to bring Texas law into line with the U.S. Constitution faces a
rough ride through the Legislature , which traditionally has been reluctant to
extend legal protections to people based on their sexual orientation.

Although Texas' so-called sodomy law cannot be enforced legally, civil rights
advocates say it should be removed from the books because it creates a climate
favorable to bullying, gay-bashing and hate crimes.

"By leaving it on the books, you create the potential for abuse," said Jim
Harrington, director of the Texas Civil Rights Project , which is representing
two gay men who were kicked out of an El Paso restaurant in 2009 for kissing in
public.

In 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that Texas could not stop people of the
same sex from engaging in sexual activity. Today, the Texas Penal Code still
states that it is a Class C misdemeanor to engage in "deviate sexual intercourse
with another individual of the same sex" - just after a line explaining that the
law is unconstitutional.

El Paso police cited the "homosexual conduct" wording when the two men were
kicked out of a Chico's Tacos restaurant. The men refused to leave and called
the police, assuming the restaurant staff was out of line with a city ordinance
banning discrimination based on sexual orientation. Instead, an officer told the
men it was illegal for two men to kiss in public and said they could be cited
for "homosexual conduct."

At the time, El Paso Police Department spokesman Javier Sambrano described the
officers involved as "relatively inexperienced."

Harrington said even though the men were not cited, the Chico's Tacos incident
is about harassment.

That's why Texas needs to strip the language from the books, said State Rep.
Jessica Farrar, D-Houston, who has sponsored legislation to do so.

"There is archaic language in our code that is used against our citizens today,"
said Farrar, whose colleague Rep. Garnet Coleman, also a Houston Democrat, has
filed an identical bill.

That two Houston lawmakers filed the same bill is not surprising. The city has
the nation's sixth-largest gay population, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
And in 2009, Houston became the first major American city (more than 1 million
residents) to elect an openly gay mayor.

But gay rights legislation has often faced political hurdles in Texas. In 2005,
voters overwhelmingly approved a constitutional amendment banning same-sex
marriage. Gay rights legislation has long been a tough sell at the Legislature,
too.

The James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which strengthened penalties for
crimes against people based on race, religion and sexual orientation -
categories used by the FBI for tracking crimes - endured a nearly decadelong
fight before it was signed into law in 2001, spurred in part by Byrd's 1998
death.

State Sen. Rodney Ellis, the Houston Democrat who authored that legislation,
said that even though the number of hate crimes in Texas based on sexual
orientation was second only to the number based on race, sexual orientation
became the "elephant in the room" that kept the act from passing for so many
years.

Ellis said he tried to make the case to lawmakers opposing his bill that he was
just trying to apply categories already used by federal law enforcement in the
state.

"I hope (the code will be changed)," Ellis said. "But I'll believe it when I see
it. I try to be an eternal optimist, but it's getting damn hard in this
political environment."

As of January, Republicans hold 101 of the 150 seats in the Texas House , a
supermajority that allows them to easily control legislation. Last session, the
House was almost evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats.

The GOP domination is reflected in the Criminal Jurisprudence committee, which
would be the first to vote on Farrar's or Coleman's bill . A Democrat chairs the
committee, but Republicans - including Wayne Christian, the most recent
president of the Texas Conservative Coalition - outnumber them two-to-one.

Christian said he had not looked at the bills in detail, but that the time it
would take them to go through committee probably would not be worth the outcome
- especially in a session where lawmakers are wrestling with major issues such
as redistricting and filling a multi-billion-dollar budget hole.

"In this particular session, I'd be hesitant to do any changing," Christian
said, adding that the law probably "better reflects the views of a lot of
citizens" as it is .

Chuck Smith, deputy executive director of Equality Texas, said even that
organization, the state's biggest lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
lobbying group, is not pushing too hard for rewording the penal code, because
the makeup of the committee makes its passage such a long shot.

Other legislation that could potentially affect the GLBT community has already
drawn fierce opposition this session. A bill filed by Rep. Mark Strama,
D-Austin, which would allow school districts to discipline students who bully
other students online, faced opposition when it came before the House Public
Education Committee earlier this month.

Jonathan Saenz, legislative director of the conservative Liberty Institute,
argued against the bill for reasons similar to those used against the hate
crimes act in the '90s. Saenz told the committee he was worried that the bill
could be changed back to its original form, which included wording about
"perceived gender expression and identity." Such language, he said, would single
out protections for specific groups of children. He said gay kids, or any other
group, should not be singled out in legislation.

"It is about the gay rights, the homosexual community, the transgender
community," Saenz said.

Earlier this month, Rep. Leo Berman, R-Tyler, brought up the bullying issue on
KXAN-TV's morning show when the host asked him for his position on legislation
that would end the requirement for birth certificates to specify a female mother
and a male father.

Berman said the bill, like Strama's cyberbullying bill, is "camouflaging an
issue."

"This bullying issue in school, it's a GLBT issue. It's a gay, lesbian,
bisexual, transvestite issue," Berman said.

After being corrected that the acronym stands for "gay, lesbian, bisexual,
transgender," Berman continued: "GLBT. I don't support their agenda at all."

Farrar said she knows her bill is unlikely to pass , but that she filed it to at
least start the conversation. "If nobody files the bill, then nobody talks
about, 'Gosh, in Texas something that is ruled unconstitutional is still on the
books,'" Farrar said. "That's the value of filing bills that may be unpopular,
because over time you can change peoples' minds and their hearts."

bwermund@statesman.com;

474-2523

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Pulling the plug

BYLINE: Barry Harrell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 2048 words


When James Krewson set up his Austin-based price comparison website, his goals
were simple: Steer shoppers toward online deals and make a living in the
process.

Not part of his plan: Getting caught in the crossfire of the state's battle with
Amazon.com over sales tax collection.

But Krewson finds himself among thousands of Texans - in an industry you might
never have heard of - who are worried they could be collateral damage in the
fight.

When the Texas comptroller's office last year sent Amazon a bill for $269
million in uncollected sales taxes, Texas joined the national debate concerning
whether online retailers can be forced to collect state sales taxes, as
traditional merchants must.

The stakes for the main parties are obvious: Amazon's business model is built in
part on offering products tax-free; traditional retailers say online sellers
have an unfair advantage if they are not required to follow the same
tax-collection rules; and the state is looking for more revenue in tight budget
times.

But the fight also is affecting affiliate marketers such as Krewson.

Affiliate marketers operate coupon or deal-based sites, and sometimes blogs,
that channel customers to Amazon and other online retailers. They are typically
paid a commission based on resulting sales. The industry estimates there are
13,000 affiliate marketers in Texas, many with ties to Amazon.

The Texas Legislature is considering at least one bill that could use those
relationships as a lever to force Amazon to collect sales tax on online
transactions from Texas.

Amazon has said if that happens, it will cut ties with its Texas affiliates.
That could cost many of them the bulk of their business and, they say,
potentially force them to leave the state.

"We don't want to move out of Texas; we like Texas," said Krewson, who operates
finders

cheapers.com. "But I have to protect my family's income."

This sideline skirmish has raised a key question for lawmakers in Texas and
other states: will the quest to force online retailers to collect sales tax have
unintended casualties?

Affiliate marketers "are the incidental victims," said Scott Peterson, executive
director of the Streamlined Sales Tax Governing Board, which lobbies for
standardized sales tax collection. "But then, they were also the incidental
creation of all this."

The world's largest online retailer, with more than $34 billion in sales last
year, Amazon has long resisted collecting tax on its sales.

That is a sore point for traditional retailers, who say Amazon and other online
sellers essentially give customers an automatic discount because they don't
collect taxes. It's also an issue for a number of states, including Texas, which
Comptroller Susan Combs says loses $600 million a year in uncollected tax on
online sales.

With online retail sales booming - they were $155 billion in the United States
last year, and Forrester Research predicts that total will reach $250 billion by
2014 - the issue isn't going to go away.

New York, Illinois, Rhode Island, North Carolina, Colorado and Arkansas, among
other states, recently have enacted laws aimed at forcing online retailers to
collect sales tax on transactions.

The key issue in those laws has been whether or not Amazon has a physical
presence in a state.

Under a 1992 U.S. Supreme Court decision, retailers with a physical presence in
a state - "nexus" in legal terms - can be required to collect sales taxes, legal
experts say.

It is the debate over what constitutes physical presence that draws affiliate
marketers into the scrum.

New York's law, passed in 2008, says that Amazon's relationships with affiliates
who live in New York constitutes a physical presence. Amazon threatened to sever
all its affiliate ties in New York if the measure passed but instead chose to
challenge the law in court.

So far, the New York courts have upheld the law, and Amazon hasn't yet ended its
affiliate ties and now collects sales taxes on shipments to that state.

However, smaller states, without New York's strategic importance, might see a
different response from Amazon and other online retailers, experts say. This
year, for example, Amazon severed ties with about 9,000 affiliates in Illinois
after that state's legislature passed a bill similar to New York's.

In Texas, Amazon has operated a distribution center in Irving for several years.
The comptroller's office says that constitutes physical presence, and used it as
the basis for the $269 million assessment.

A bill aimed at clicks

After that assessment, Amazon announced plans to close that facility. As of last
week, the center was still operating. Amazon officials haven't commented
publicly about the facility, other than to say operations at the center are
winding down.

Texas legislators, meanwhile, are weighing two different paths in their focus on
Amazon - and one of those paths would have much more of an impact on affiliate
marketers.

House Bill 1317, filed by state Rep. Elliott Naishtat, D-Austin, in part aims to
use online retailers' relationships with affiliates establish physical presence,
a tactic known as "click-through nexus," because it uses the click of a mouse on
the marketers' websites to establish a retailing relationship with sellers such
as Amazon.

Traditional merchants say Naishtat's measure would simply follow New York's lead
in using all means possible to force Amazon to collect taxes.

Rebecca Madigan, executive director of the Performance Marketing Association, a
trade group for affiliate marketers, said she feels "our industry is being used
as a pawn."

"What became blatantly obvious this year is, the big box retailers are going
after Amazon. They are simply trying to push through legislation to go after
Amazon," Madigan said.

Eric Bearse, Texas spokesman for the Alliance for Main Street Fairness, an
advocacy group for brick-and-mortar retailers, said it is Amazon that is
treating the affiliate marketers as pawns.

"Amazon has a national strategy to dodge sales tax collection in as many states
as possible, especially big states, and they trot out affiliates to lobby for
their case because they know a large corporation gets no sympathy for not
collecting sales taxes, like many large and small businesses have to do," Bearse
said.

Affiliate marketers say that Naishtat's bill wouldn't result in any new revenue
for Texas, but would still put some of them out of business.

"People lose their jobs, with affiliates either moving and taking their business
with them, or staying put and filing unemployment benefits," said Alex Bugeja,
president of Traffikoo.com, a Dallas-based affiliate marketing firm. "My
personal expectation is, if that passes, we'd lose pretty much all of our
business."

Testifying at a state House hearing last month, Steve Shaffer, CEO of Vertive
LLC, the Austin company behind the offers.com deal-finding site, said his
company would "lose a tremendous amount of income" if Amazon cut its ties with
Texas affiliates.

A clarifying measure

However, House Bill 2403, by Rep. John Otto, R-Dayton, appears to be the
Legislature's preferred course.

An early version of Otto's bill included a clause that stipulated the use of a
computer server located within Texas could be used to establish nexus. A revised
version removed that mention. The bill focuses instead on clarifying the
physical presence aspect of the tax code to specifically include warehouses and
distribution centers.

Naishtat's bill has not yet made it out of a House committee. A companion piece
to Naishtat's measure, Senate Bill 1798 by Sen. Royce West, D-Dallas, was
approved with some revisions by the Senate Finance Committee and sent to the
full Senate. Otto's House measure, meanwhile, has been sent to the full House
for a vote.

Online shoppers have hundreds or thousands of options for purchases, so even
retailers as large and well-known as Amazon use affiliates to help to drive
traffic to their sites.

It doesn't take a large staff or a major investment to go into the business.

"Affiliate marketers are basically ghost entities. They don't have a physical
plant or presence; they are just on the Internet virtually. A consumer clicks on
his or her PC and gets directed to a bunch of servers that could be located God
knows where," said Venky Shankar, a professor of marketing at Texas A&M
University's Mays Business School.

Industry groups estimate there are 200,000 affiliate marketers in the United
States, including 13,000 in Texas. That compares with an estimated 1,500
brick-and-mortar retailers in the state - from mom-and-pop stores to Walmart -
which have about 2 million employees, according to the Texas Retailers
Association.

Diane Yetter, president of a Chicago-based sales tax consulting firm and founder
of the Sales Tax Institute, said that, historically, affiliates "haven't had as
much clout, because they are small businesses, sole proprietors. " They are not
corporations, so they don't have the money to pay to for the lobbyists. It's Joe
working out of his garage or the stay-at-home mom or the blogger."

Because they are often such small entities, Yetter said, it's difficult to judge
affiliates' economic impact.

"It's hard to show, this is how many jobs we have; these are people that, yes,
provide revenues to the state. But what about when you look at it in total jobs
creation, jobs retention and all the other taxes that a traditional
brick-and-mortar business has?" Yetter said. "Is there an impact? Yes. Is it
significant? I don't know."

Affiliates feel pressure

Shawn Collins, an affiliate marketer and

organizer of conferences for those in the industry, recently moved from New
Jersey to Austin. The move was based on "the business environment, the climate,
a better way of life for my family," said Collins, who operates the website www.

affiliatetip.com.

With a new house and four children, relocating is not a viable option if Amazon
were to end its Texas affiliate relationships, Collins said.

Affiliate marketers "understand that states need to raise taxes and funds in
various ways," Collins said. "They're not looking for an unfair advantage; they
just want to stay and work and provide for their families and stay in their
communities."

The other side of the argument is that job losses can happen in any field. And
traditional retailers say they've had to cut jobs because of revenue they have
lost to untaxed online sales.

"If you have tax fairness, that creates jobs in sales for brick-and-mortar
retailers," Bearse said. "Then they can expand their sales forces, whether it's
virtually or in the store. They can invest more in the state, make more sales
and be able to expand their online presence, maybe even through affiliate
marketers."

Affiliate marketers in Texas say they are growing more confident that the
Legislature is leaning toward the Otto-authored bill, that doesn't mean they are
comfortable with their status. States are going to continue pushing for ways to
force tax collection on online sales, and the issue could resurface at any time.

"There's no immediate clarity; nobody knows how this is going to turn out. And
in my mind, there's also a problem in the future," said Bugeja of Dallas-based
Traffikoo.com. "What's the institutional memory in Austin, that says we're not
going to touch this again? Two years from now, will it be resurrected?"

There's also a concern that Amazon and other online retailers could decide the
state is simply too risky to operate in and sever their Texas affiliate ties,
anyway.

Krewson said his concern is that "if enough states pass affiliate nexus
legislation - California for instance - the overall business model of affiliate
marketing could have to change. I'm more worried about the industry just ceasing
to exist, or if it continues to exist, changing radically."

However, Shankar, the Texas A&M professor, said it's not likely the affiliate
marketing industry would die out - but he said it might have to remake itself.

"If all the affiliate marketers shut down, Amazon would take a huge hit with
shareholders; sales would dip, stocks prices fall. The Internet is now so large,
no single retailer can generate all the traffic " no matter how great a name
they are," Shankar said. "So I don't think the industry is going to go away that
soon; They'll just have to find different ways to evolve."

bharrell@statesman.com; 912-2960

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Spring's bumper crop of green tomatoes is ripe with possibility

BYLINE: RENEE STUDEBAKER AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1040 words


I can hardly believe that I just counted almost 70 big, plump green tomatoes in
my front and backyard gardens, not to mention dozens of soon-to-ripen
salad-sized varieties, plus 30 or so brand-new babies that popped out in
response to the recent rain.

At this rate, I could end up with almost 200 tomatoes this season.

How did this happen? Where have all the tomato-stealing squirrels gone? Where
are the hornworms and the leaf-footed bugs? The spider mites?

Did I finally do everything right? (Not likely.) Or has climate change created a
cosmic growing zone (anti-worm hole?) on my street where all of nature now
resides in perfect balance? (Hmm, I wish.) Or maybe a large, feathered-garden
protector has taken up residency in my bur oak tree. (Doctor Whooo?)

Whatever's going on, I like it. And I also like how it simplifies menu planning
for Memorial Day. We're having tomatoes. Mostly green ones. Some grilled, some
roasted and some lightly charred and chopped into a chimichurri to serve on
grilled pork chops.

Come to think of it, sharing my favorite food with a few of my favorite people
seems like exactly the right thing to do for a Memorial Day gathering.

It will be a celebration of a bountiful life and a nod to all the American
soldiers over the years who made it possible.

Recipes

I don't ordinarily pick and cook green tomatoes so early in the season. But with
this spring's abundant fruit set, I should have more than enough big ripe
tomatoes to enjoy and give away over the next few weeks, assuming, of course,
the squirrels don't start carting them off in wagons.

In the meantime, I'm having fun exploring the complexities of the star of the
summer vegetable garden in its unripened state. Yes, I know how sinfully good
fried green tomatoes can be, but now that I've tasted the deep and smoky citrus
notes of grilled and roasted green tomatoes, I'll definitely be setting out
extra plants again next season.

Grilled Green Tomato Salad

With Hill Country Peaches and Goat Cheese

3 large green (unripe) tomatoes

2 or 3 ripe but firm Hill Country peaches (this early in the season, freestone
peaches might be scarce, but the cling peaches taste just as good), peeled and
sliced in 1/2-inch wedges

1 small or medium purple onion, peeled, halved and sliced in 1/2-inch wedges

Olive oil

Sea salt

Fresh ground pepper

3 cups spicy arugula leaves, washed and drained (or Bibb lettuce leaves, if you
prefer)

6 Tbsp. goat cheese

3 tsp. freshly minced garlic

Pecan or mesquite wood chips (water-soaked), optional

Maple Vinaigrette (recipe follows)

1 cup sunflower sprouts, washed and drained

4-6 slices of good quality bacon or pork belly, cooked crisp and drained
(optional, but really tasty)

Slice tomatoes in half. Drizzle cut side with olive oil and dot each with 1/2
tsp. garlic. Season with sea salt and pepper and set aside. Prepare vinaigrette
(below) and refrigerate. Place tomato halves on grill over medium-high heat, cut
side up, and cook for a few minutes until skins start to brown. Then place
tomatoes on grill tray and move to indirect heat, close grill cover, add wood
chips if using, and continue cooking until tomatoes are lightly caramelized and
soft.

Drizzle peach and onion slices with oil, place on another grill tray, and grill
for a minute or two on each side, until tender and lightly charred.

To serve salads, divide arugula evenly on salad plates, then top each with a
tomato half, a couple of peach and onion slices, 1 Tbsp. of cheese, and a
drizzle of vinaigrette. Garnish with sunflower sprouts and bacon for an extra
contrasting layer of flavor and crunch.

Maple Vinaigrette

2 Tbsp. maple syrup (or to taste)

1 tsp. Dijon mustard

2 Tbsp. white wine vinegar or apple cider vinegar

1/4 tsp. sea salt (or to taste)

1 clove garlic, crushed and minced

2 Tbsps. extra-virgin olive oil

Mix first 5 ingredients in a bowl and then whisk in oil. Can be made a couple of
hours ahead and refrigerated.

Note: If you're not cranking up the grill this holiday weekend, you can still
make an excellent version of this salad using a stove-top grill pan and your
oven. Place prepared tomato halves cut side up on a baking sheet and cook for
about 45 minutes to an hour in a 350-degree oven, or until tomatoes and garlic
bits are lightly caramelized and the tomato flesh is soft and slightly
collapsed. When tomatoes are close to being done, brown peach and onion slices
in grill pan over medium heat and make salad as above.

Cautionary note: These garlicky roasted green tomatoes are so good that you
might want to have extra tomatoes on hand. While I was working on this recipe
one night, I found it hard to resist nibbling on the tomatoes while the peaches
and onions were cooking. Finally I just gave in and sat down and ate a whole
plate of roasted green tomatoes with a little dab of goat cheese on the side.
With a glass of crisp, fruity white wine, it was a lovely impromptu dinner for a
hungry cook.

Variations: Top salad with grilled shrimp or bits of pulled pork. For a spicier
bite, add hot pepper flakes or chopped chile pepper to the vinaigrette.

- Renee Studebaker

Green Tomato Chimichurri

This is a great topping for grilled steaks, pork or fish. The original recipe
called for hot pepper flakes, but I like it better with finely chopped serrano
pepper. Alter the heat to your liking. If you enjoy playing around with
different flavor combinations, try adding freshly chopped sorrel leaves or Swiss
chard, or even the tender young leaves of salad burnet.

5 medium green tomatoes (sliced 1/2-inch thick)

1 Tbsp. extra virgin olive oil, plus 1/2 cup

1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro

1/2 cup chopped fresh flatleaf parsley

2 Tbsp. finely chopped red onion

2 Tbsp. white vine vinegar

1 tsp. finely chopped fresh serrano pepper

1 tsp. finely chopped garlic

1 tsp. sea salt

1/2 tsp. freshly ground black pepper

Brush tomato slices with 1 Tbsp. oil and cook over medium-high heat on grill or
stove-top grill pan until well charred on each side - about 2 minutes per side.
Allow tomatoes to cool slightly, then chop coarsely and place in a medium bowl.
Stir in remaining olive oil, cilantro, parsley, onion, vinegar, pepper, garlic,
salt and black pepper.

- Adapted from 'Fresh From the Market: Seasonal Cooking With Laurent Tourondel
and Charlotte March' (Wiley, $35)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Execs: Austin's great for talent shopping

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 598 words


Executives with eBay Inc. and its PayPal subsidiary this year committed to a
major expansion in Austin. The companies, which already have an Austin
operations center of about 250 employees, promised in April to add 1,000
high-paying jobs here over the next 10 years - a deal that included a planned
$1.2 million in incentives from the City of Austin and as much as $2.8 million
from the Texas Enterprise Fund.

Terence Spielman and Ryan Neading , the two top executives for PayPal and eBay
in Austin, recently responded by email to questions from the American-Statesman
about their companies' growth plans for Austin.

Spielman is senior director of global operations product development for PayPal.
He also is general manager of the company's Austin operation.

Neading is senior director of global billing and payments for eBay and is
accountable for revenue collections for eBay.com, PayPal merchant services and
other eBay affiliates, including StubHub, which is an online ticket marketplace
for sports, concerts, theater and other entertainment events.

American-Statesman: What jobs are you trying to fill and why?

Spielman: PayPal is looking for top technology and business talent, and Austin
offers a range of qualified candidates. PayPal is looking for recent graduates,
as well as seasoned professionals in software development and business
management.

Neading: The eBay Marketplace is currently seeking top talent with a passion to
innovate and drive the best commerce experience on and off the Web. To achieve
this, we are hiring across multiple domains (technology, operations, and
business management) and skill levels (ranging from senior leadership to top
graduates).

Why Austin?

Spielman: PayPal has been hiring great talent in Austin for over four years, and
we have recognized that Austin has a great quality of life to attract tech-savvy
talent that helps us maintain our industry leadership. With top higher education
institutions, pro-business government leaders, and a portfolio of world-class
technology institutions that grow and attract the best talent, Austin is a great
environment to grow our business.

On a more personal front, Austin's values align well with our corporate values
and the expectations of our employees. Austin offers a diversity of the
citizens, a focus on innovation and a wealth of entrepreneurial spirit.

Neading: As a company, we've been focusing on our global talent strategy, and as
a global company, we want to find locations in North America to expand our
businesses. EBay and PayPal have enjoyed a successful track record of hiring top
talent in Austin for more than four years, and this region is a primary
candidate for North American growth.

Austin has a very vibrant labor market and offers an existing strong
high-technology presence, attractive lifestyles, vibrant music network, outdoor
attractions and climate, as well as access to strong universities in
engineering, computer science, and business.

Do you expect any problems filling these job openings?

Spielman: We are excited to see that our growth is outpacing our projections. We
have enjoyed steady growth over the past four years, and we are confident that
our brand will continue to attract the best talent as we strengthen our
partnerships with the local community.

Neading: At this point in time, we are exceeding our hiring projections. The
Austin market is proving to be an exceptional source of seasoned and young
talent excited to drive change and innovation. We believe this will only improve
over time as we continue to be more engaged in the community and educational
systems.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 871 words


Election motivation

Re: July 11 Ken Herman column "Trouble for Doggett? In new district, Dems may
seek new blood."

I was appalled by the irreverent tone and skewered thinking behind this column.
Why didn't you just title it: "Move Over - You're Old and You're Not Hispanic."
First, I don't consider 64 to be old. Second, I would hope Rep. Lloyd Doggett's
extensive experience and exemplary service to his district count in his favor.
They certainly do with me! I don't vote for someone based on age, gender or
ethnicity. I vote for the most qualified candidate. If state Rep. Joaquin Castro
really wants to help the Hispanic cause, why doesn't he run against Lamar Smith,
who is so busy trying to pass anti-immigration legislation? Or run against the
tea party Republican in District 23? Both of those districts are based in San
Antonio, where he lives. That would really help strengthen the region's
representation in D.C.

Marvadene Brock Eves

Dripping Springs

Internal turmoil

The intransigent House Republicans remind me of a quote from Abraham Lincoln:
"America will never be destroyed from the outside. If we falter and lose our
freedoms, it will be because we destroyed ourselves."

Clinton and Gingrich agreed on a budget that launched a period of prosperity and
left the largest surplus in history. Not one House Republican voted for it.

Bob Bledsoe

Austin

Fuller picture

Re: July 19 editorial "Perry helps state score more jobs."

I hope the people coming to Texas for those jobs do their homework and learn
about the $4 billion slashed from public schools and the $1 billion cut from
higher education when planning to move their families here.

Deena O'Daniel

Austin

Business of economics

Re: July 16 letter "Economics Lesson."

Decisions on adding or subtracting personnel are based on demand for the product
or service offered, not the rate at which the owner of that service is taxed.

If the personal income tax on the business owner were to rise, she would have
two main options: take a reduced profit or keep her profit margin by raising the
price of her goods or services. If there is sufficient demand for what she is
selling, she will never think of laying off an employee, as that would reduce
her output and thus profit.

If her overhead rises, she may increase her prices to reflect this, but only a
lack of demand will cause her to wish to reduce output and thus her staff. And
as far as all the jobs associated with the private jet industry, does Alan J.
Winters believe that if the tax break were eliminated there would be no further
sales of private jets?

Howard Shapiro

howard.shapiro@sbcglobal.net

Austin

Do away with debt limits

The ticking clock we call the debt limit should be unplugged - for good. Article
1, Section 8 of the Constitution gives congress the power to borrow money and
pay the debt. If the debt limit prevents our elected officials from exercising
their power to borrow money and pay the debt, then the debt limit renders
Article 1, Section 8 meaningless, and is therefore unconstitutional. To help
solve our debt problem, I propose we do away with the limit on congressional
leadership and responsibility ASAP.

Edwin Greensage

Cedar Park

Water: the real big issue

If we are going to make a single issue the one we use to guide our vote, how
about using the most important one facing Texas today and especially in the
future: dealing with the looming water shortage as more and more people move to
this area at the same time climate change makes us more arid.

If all our prospective leaders were quizzed about their ideas to deal with this
coming crisis, we could ensure that we get leaders who will create and implement
solutions so that we are prepared to deal with it before it happens, not during
the crisis. Let's stop spending time debating issues that are manufactured to
pander to one special interest group and concentrate on those that affect the
future well-being of this state and its people.

Richard Hartgrove

rhartgrove@sbcglobal.net

Austin

House fibs

How ridiculous is the Texas House "tradition" of signing in for members who are
not actually present?

We don't allow our children to clock in for each other at school, so why should
our representatives be allowed to do that? There is one word for checking in for
someone who is not there - that word is lying.

Bonnie Carothers

Austin

Water in motion
 Re: July 18 Rep. Bill Callegari column "Today's drought signals need for
proactive solutions."
 The provocative article by Rep. Callegari on drought and seeking solutions
raised some interesting questions. It is estimated that there are between
30,000 to 40,000 miles of oil pipelines, including those reaching from the
north slope of Alaska to Texas and up to the Midwest. Yet there seem to be very
 few water pipelines. As an indication of the amount of fresh water in the
Great Lakes, the water flow over Niagara Falls is estimated at over 1.5 million
 gallons per second, while the Mississippi River outflow is estimated at 1.5 to
 5.3 million gallons per second. That is a lot of fresh water which is wasted.
Thus, an obvious proactive solution to increasingly perennial drought is to
pipe water from the Great Lakes and the Mississippi to reservoirs in the
Southwest.
 Robert Tabor
 rtablink@aol.com
 Austin



LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

how dry is it?

BYLINE: Farzad Mashhood AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1192 words


As Walter Prescott Webb, a University of Texas historian and noted U.S. water
policy critic, wrote in 1953 : Droughts are unlike other natural disasters. They
creep in slowly, with "no need for dramatic services of the Red Cross, martial
law or the state police." And, in the end, "everybody loses."

He was writing about the drought of the 1950s, the benchmark to which all other
droughts in Texas are compared. It ran from 1947 to 1957, and at its end, a
state water official called it "the most costly and one of the most devastating
droughts in 600 years."

The current drought is bad, but water experts and historians say the 1950s
drought blows this one out of the water.

As of last week , three-quarters of the state is in exceptional drought, the
worst category, and 99.85 percent is in some form of drought. The current
drought - which has surpassed the 1950s drought in two of three key areas - has
put a damper on water-based recreation, is spurring utilities to tighten the
spigot on water use, and so far has cost Texas agriculture up to $4.8 billion.

But that loss is just a fraction of the toll of the drought of record, which
reshaped Texas, ruining thousands of farmers and ranchers and pushing rural
residents to migrate out of the country and into the cities. Losses from 1950 to
1957 were estimated at $22 billion in 2011 dollars, said Robert Mace, the Texas
Water Development Board's deputy executive administrator.

"The drought we're in is severe, but it ain't your grandpa's drought," Mace
said.

After the 1950s drought, policymakers developed drought contingency plans,
expanded the state's water storage and sought new sources of groundwater. State
and federal departments of agriculture put in place several safeguard programs
to help farmers deal with severe droughts, including low-interest emergency
loans and emergency access to hay and grazing land.

It stopped raining in Central Texas in spring 1947. By summer 1951, nearly the
entire state was in drought.

Some said God was punishing Texas. Others blamed agricultural losses on paved
roads that blocked what rain there was from returning to the soil. Others blamed
the drought on sunspot activity, according to a New York Times Magazine article
from December 1953.

By the time it was declared over after months of slow, soaking rains, it was far
too late, as ranchers had sold seed stock "at heartbreaking, emergency prices,"
the Austin American-Statesman reported at the time.

The drought forever changed the state's cultural landscape, accelerating the
trend toward urbanization. In 1940, 29 percent of employed Texans were
classified as farmers or farm workers, census data show. That number fell to 12
percent in 1960. Texas' economy is more diversified today; as of 2010, 2.8
percent of residents worked in agriculture.

As part of the state's recovery, Webb in the late 1950s called for a
"billion-dollar cure" for the drought. Texas needed to build a network of
reservoirs to protect against future droughts, he said.

And so the state began a campaign to store and conserve more water. From 1957 to
1970, workers built 69 dams, including Longhorn Dam on the Colorado River, which
formed Lady Bird Lake in 1960.

In addition, underground aquifers were tapped as important resources for the
future. From 1947 to 1957, groundwater use increased fivefold, state water board
data show. Mace said cheaper pumps came as the drought spurred farmers to find
more water sources.

"A lot of money was thrown to the water development board " and they built
reservoirs," said Raymond Slade Jr., a retired U.S. Geological Survey
hydrologist and chairman of the Technical Advisory Committee of the Hill Country
Alliance. "The money was created because the drought got the Legislature's
attention."

Utilities such as the Lower Colorado River Authority ­- a major provider of
Central Texas' water - developed management plans to handle droughts at least as
bad as the drought of record, defined by three key characteristics: 24
consecutive months of lakes Travis and Buchanan being less than full, lake
inflows below 1950s levels, and less than 600,000 acre-feet of water in lakes
Travis and Buchanan.

Inflows from January to June this year totaled 72,828 acre-feet, 30 percent of
the volume during an average six-month period during the 1950s drought. The last
time both lakes were full was February 2005.

But Central Texas has a ways to go before exceeding the drought of record on the
third trigger. The lakes currently hold 998,000 acre-feet of water, down from
almost 1.6 million in January but far more than the 600,000 minimum. River
authority officials said lake volume should stay above the minimum through 2011.

Though lake capacity is greater than in the previous drought, experts warn that
demand is now higher.

"There are a lot more straws in the reservoir," said Travis Miller with the
Texas A&M University System's Agrilife Extension Service.

Today's drought has etched itself into the records; the period from October to
June is the driest on record, yielding just 10.97 inches of rain at Camp Mabry,
compared with an average 25.53 inches for that span.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration meteorologists blame the drought
on normal climate variation and perhaps the driest recorded La Niña, a weather
pattern that consists of an abnormal cooling of the Pacific Ocean and that
brings drier and warmer conditions to Texas.

Texas was offered short reprieves from the 1950s drought when big downpours came
in 1951 and 1952. Similar downpours in July 2010 and September 2010 were enough
to break the 2007-2009 drought, some meteorologists say.

Others, including Bob Rose, the river authority's chief meteorologist, say its
possible that the September rains didn't break the drought, but only gave it
pause.

The tail end of the record drought, in 1956, increased in severity , similar to
what we have seen in the past 10 months, Miller said. The current drought ranks
third, behind the 1918 drought.

There's no way to tell how long this drought will last, but meteorologists are
seeing signs that another La Niña is building and are predicting another dry
year in 2012.

"In the fall, we can start to see more frequent rains, though not necessarily
drought-ending," Rose said. "Beyond that we expect to go back into drought
pattern."

The drought most directly impacts agriculture, but also hurts the tourism and
recreation industries, Miller said.

Marinas on Lake Travis have seen a drop in business as the lake level has
dropped. Only one public boat launch is open. Meanwhile, ranchers have had to
make drastic changes.

Many are selling off herds that are simply too costly to feed, said David
Anderson, a livestock economist with the Agrilife Extension Service. Selling
cattle early, when they weigh less, and selling in high volumes is causing
prices to plummet, he said.

"This is year one, and we're starting out at the driest year since 1956,"
Anderson said. "If this is the beginning of a longer drought, this is a bad
beginning."

fmashhood@statesman.com; 445-3972

(GRAPHIC BOXES: SEE MICROFILM)

How much water is in the lakes?

How does our recent lack of rain compare to the drought of record?

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 636 words


Life's education

Re: Dr. Stephen Sonnenberg's Aug. 21 Insight article, "A short course in why
doctors need a longer education."

As a physician with 32 years' experience who majored in philosophy in college, I
take issue with Dr. Sonnenberg's argument that one needs an extensive liberal
arts education before medical school in order to be a good, compassionate
doctor.

I am glad I had the opportunity to study Shakespeare, Kant and art history, but
I did not learn compassion and understanding through books and courses. The life
lessons I have learned from colleagues, friends, family and patients, as well as
through my own tragedies (childhood illness, my parents' divorce, the death of
my first child) and blessings (the unconditional love of my family and friends),
have taught me more about the human condition, and how to open my heart and mind
to my patients and co-workers, than books ever could.

I trained with several "five-year-wonders" - products of combined college and
med school - and they were fine doctors because they were smart, curious and
caring.

Rose Schneier, M.D.

Austin

Leaders campaigning

So some of your readers think Gov. Rick Perry should resign because his time
spent campaigning for the Republican nomination for president is shortchanging
the citizens of Texas. One has to assume they also thought Gov. Bill Clinton
should have resigned, Sen. John Kerry should have resigned, Sen. Barack Obama
should have resigned - and now they think President Obama, who is running for a
second term, should resign because his campaign will shortchange the American
people.

Their petty, irrational logic only serves to illuminate their partisan bias, not
to mention a juvenile double standard. If Obama can govern and campaign, so can
Perry.

Marilynn Y. Intrieri

Cedar Park

Science and conservatives

I'm deeply embarrassed and disappointed that conservative politics in the U.S.
seem to now be dominated by the modern equivalent of the Flat Earth Society.
Today, we need strong, thoughtful and inspiring leadership to bring the nation
together and solve some of the toughest problems we've ever faced. Instead,
we're offered blathering candidates who don't believe in evolution or climate
change .

I'm waiting for the lively national debate on whether or not the sun circles the
earth.

Dean Mericas

Austin

Standard of living

In the global economy, the standard of living in the U.S. seems to be headed
downward to meet the rest of the world, as many countries are now as
well-equipped as we are to generate new, well-paid jobs. Our current economic
mess can be attributed to things like greed, waste and mismanagement, common
problems that we've always had.

We can argue about how to adjust the financial controls on our anemic economy
(stimulus programs, tax cuts, etc.), but these have a short-term focus. A
long-term solution has to involve major investments in education and research so
we can create many new products that our competitors can't match. We need the
equivalent of the computer revolution that we started in the 1950s and '60s to
generate new jobs that don't exist today. If we don't make these investments, we
need to accept that our standard of living will drop.

Douglas Thies

Georgetown

Move water to Texas?

California has aqueducts 40 feet wide and 30 feet deep from the mountains to the
cities. While I don't think we can - or should - build transnational 40-ft.-wide
waterways, one has to wonder why we can't stimulate our economy and create jobs
with something really useful like a series of underground aqueducts from the
upper and middle Mississippi to Texas and other parts of the Southwest that
suffer droughts on a regular basis? It may take years to complete, but droughts
and floods aren't going away. Why not put the two together and try to at least
mitigate both problems?

Kathi Thomas

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 3467 words


William Cameron (Bill)

Mitchell

William Cameron (Bill) Mitchell, 77, of Austin, TX, passed away on the first of
September 2011. Bill was a graduate of Stephen F. Austin High School and
attended the University of Texas. Bill served in the United States Army National
Guard. He was a former member of the Austin Police Department motorcycle patrol.
Bill owned "The Body Shop" auto repair business since 1970. His honesty and
integrity in business was evident by the many thank you letters folks took the
time to write after he fixed their cars. He proudly framed and displayed them in
his office. Bill loved the lake and he enjoyed boating and skiing. Bill was an
avid car enthusiast his entire life. He loved restoring old cars to their
original mint condition, especially Volkswagen Bugs. For fifteen years, he
served as the Pit Crew Chief for his son Mitch's motocross team. His latest
passion was restoring old vintage Ford tractors.

Bill was preceded in death by his wife of 53 years, Joetta Naylor Mitchell,
along with his parents, Lometa and Cecil Mitchell. Bill is survived by his
children, Luanne Mitchell and Scott Zwart of Peralta, NM, Laura Harvey of
Austin, Lisa Barron and Dennis Sealy of Austin, William (Mitch) Mitchell of
Austin; his grandchildren, Randy and Stephanie Barron of Temple, Chris Barron of
Austin, Jeff Barron of Austin and Stormy Shipman of Austin; great-grandchildren,
Owen Pierce, Tristan Alena, Channing Skye and Rhianna Raine.

A memorial service will be held at half past six in the evening on the 8th of
September 2011 at the Colonial Chapel of Cook-Walden Funeral Home, 6100 North
Lamar Boulevard, Austin, TX 78752.

Condolences may be made to: www.cookwalden.com.

Lloyd Ivan Hennig

Lloyd Ivan Hennig, 88, was called to heaven on Sunday, September 4, 2011 with
his family by his side. Born on April 12, 1923 to Ivan and Alma Hennig in
Valera, TX, Lloyd lived most of his life in the Buda and Driftwood areas. Lloyd
served in the United States Air Force during World War II, stationed in Germany,
France and England. He proudly served with the Austin Police Department for two
years before becoming a ranch foreman for the Rutherford Ranch for 36 years. He
was also elected to the Buda School Board and was re-elected to the new Hays
Consolidated ISD. He retired at the age of 73. Lloyd and his wife Dolores were
members of the Driftwood Methodist Church, for almost 50 years. Lloyd taught
Sunday School for 25 years.

Lloyd is survived by his loving wife of 64 years, Dolores Meinen Hennig; son,
Joe Hennig; son, Dan Hennig & wife Marianne; granddaughter, Shanna Letbetter and
husband Bruce; granddaughter, Keely Sonlitner and husband James; granddaughter,
Kari Reed and husband Kyle; grandson, Jake Hennig and wife Pamela;
granddaughter, Marcie Hennig; great granddaughter, Brylie Letbetter; great
grandsons, Keaton Sonlitner, Jenson Hennig and Liam Sonlitner; brother, Chester
Hennig and wife, Mary; sister, Pat Jones; brother, Jack Hennig; as well as
numerous friends.

He was preceded in death by his parents; brother, Ralph Hennig; daughter-in-law,
Vicki Hennig; and brother-in-law, Tom Jones.

Funeral services will be held at Driftwood Methodist Church on Thursday,
September 8, 2011. Visitation will begin at 10:00 a.m. with the service
beginning at 11:00 a.m. A loving husband, father, grandfather, brother, and
friend, will be greatly missed by those whose life he touched.

In lieu of flowers please make donations to the Driftwood Methodist Church &
Community Cemetery.

Msgr. Charles W. Elmer

Msgr. Charles W. Elmer died on Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011, at the age of 88. He was
born on May 19, 1923, in Aurora, Wisconsin. He had three siblings. He served in
the U.S. Army in World War II and received the rank of Colonel in the United
States Army Reserve. He attended St. Francis Seminary in Milwaukee and the North
American College in Rome. He received the S.T.L. from the Pontifical Gregorian
University, the M.Ed. from Texas A&M University, and the S.T.D. from the
Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas. He was ordained for the Diocese of
Marquette on December 20, 1952. He transferred to the warmer climate of the
Diocese of Austin for health reasons. He served at St. Mary's in College Station
and was the founding pastor of St. Theresa's in Austin. He served for many years
in the formation of priests, as Assistant Superior of the Casa Santa Maria of
the North American College, Business Manager of the North American College,
Director of the Casa Santa Maria, spiritual director then rector of Holy Trinity
Seminary in Dallas, and spiritual director at St. Mary's Seminary in Houston. He
was named an Apostolic Protonotary by Pope John Paul II.

The Funeral Mass will take place at 11:00 a.m. on Friday, Sept. 9, at the Chapel
of St. Mary's Seminary in Houston. The Vigil will take place at 7:00 p.m. on
Thursday, Sept. 8, at the Chapel of St. Mary's Seminary in Houston. His body
will be buried next to his parents in Iron Mountain Cemetery in Iron Mountain,
Michigan. Arrangements are being made through Cook-Walden Funeral Home in Austin
with the assistance of Geo. H. Lewis & Sons Funeral Directors in Houston. In
lieu of flowers, memorial gifts may be made to St. Mary's Catholic Center at
Texas A&M University, 603 Church Avenue, College Station, TX, 77840 .

For those who would like to pay their respects locally, a Book of Condolences
will be available to be signed at Cook-Walden Funeral Home, 6100 N. Lamar Blvd,
Austin, Texas or at www.cookwaldenfuneralhome.com

At the conclusion of all services, the book will be given to Msgr. Elmer's
family.

Ryan P. Connolly

Ryan P. Connolly, 28, of Austin formerly of Vidor, died Thursday, September 3,
2011, in Round Rock, Texas. Born on November 15, 1982, to J.P. and Karen Venhaus
Connolly in Beaumont, Ryan was an emergency response dispatcher with the Austin
Police Department.

Survivors include his father, J.P. Connolly; mother, Karen Connolly; brothers,
Owen and his wife, LeDawn, Nathan, Duncan, Conor, Jed, Peter and Aidan; aunt,
Candi Walrath, and her husband Dave of New York; many cousins in Georgia and New
York; other extended family members; and many friends in Beaumont and Austin.

His funeral service will be 3:00 p.m., Thursday, September 8, 2011, at
Broussard's, 2000 McFaddin Avenue, Beaumont, with cremation arrangements under
the direction of Broussard's. A gathering of his family and friends will be from
6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m., Wednesday, September 7, 2011, at Broussard's.

Complete and updated can be found at www.broussards1889.com.

Arminda Guerrero Gutierrez

1944 - 2011

Our beloved Arminda "Minda" Gutierrez, went to be with the Lord with her family
by her side on September 3, 2011. She was born on April 10, 1944 in Hays County,
Texas to Antonio Sr. and Francisca Mosqueda Guerrero. She moved to Austin from
the San Marcos/Kyle area with her family where she met and married her high
school sweetheart, Antonio "Tony" Gutierrez. They would have celebrated 50 years
of marriage on September 23rd. She retired from Travis County Auditors Office
where she met many people whom are considered family by her. She had an amazing
personality that touched many lives that inspired others to follow her traits.
Her most gifted trait was her faith in God. She was a life-long parishioner of
Cristo Rey Catholic Church. Her Catholic faith and daily devotion to the Holy
Rosary was an inspiration to her family and friends. She will be missed by all.

Minda is survived by her husband, Tony; son, Anthony L. Gutierrez and
significant other Patsy Ybarra; son, Chris Gutierrez; daughter, Barbie Caballero
and husband, Robert; grandchildren, Jesse Gutierrez, Daniel Ray Ybarra,
Josephine Williamson, Gabriella Gutierrez, Francesca "Lulu" Caballero, and
Vanessa Caballero; siblings, Mary A. Gilbert, Arturo, John, Humberto, and
Josephine Guerrero, Consuelo DeLuna and Connie Garcia; also survived by numerous
nieces, nephews, and other family members. She loved and prayed for all members
of her family and friends.

She was preceded in death by her parents and brother, Antonio Guerrero Jr.

The Holy Rosary will be recited at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, September 7, 2011 at
Mission Funeral Home Serenity Chapel 6204 South 1st Street Austin, Texas. The
Mass will be celebrated at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, September 8, 2011 at Mission
Funeral Home Serenity Chapel. Interment will follow at Assumption Cemetery.

The family would like to thank the following Doctors, Debra Patt, David Wright,
Helen Maidment, Shad Dabaghi and their staff.

Memorial contributions may be made to The American Cancer Society or the
American Diabetes Association.

To view memorial on-line, visit www.missionmemorials.com

Jose Haros

Jose Haros was born to Tomas Sr. and Juanita Haros on July 23, 1950 in Austin,
Tx. He was called to our Heavenly Father on Friday, September 2, 2011. He is
survived by children, Veronica, Joe Jr., Josephine, Robert, Mary L., Joe Adam,
Jerman, Xavier and stepson Gilbert along with 21 grandchildren. He will be
missed by family and friends.

Love you Dad

Louis Harris

Louis Harris 84, of Los Angeles, Ca., formally of Austin, died September 1,
2011.

He was fondly called Baby Boy and sometimes Mutt. He is survived by one sister,
Gwen Marie Mitchell of Los Angeles, California. Services have been entrusted to
King-Tears Mortuary.

Ervin Hrozek

Ervin Hrozek, 92 of Cameron died Sunday, September 4, 2011. Services 11:00 a.m.
Wednesday at Marek-Burns-Laywell Funeral Home in Cameron. Burial Ss. Cyril and
Methodius Cemetery in Marak. Visitation 6:00 - 8:00 Tuesday at funeral home.

Sonia Natoli

Aug. 1, 1936 - Sept. 4, 2011

Sonia Natoli was born on August 1st, 1936, in South Korea. Sonia married John
Natoli in October 1957 and together they raised three children. Her husband's
job took their family all over the world. Throughout their travels, the family
made many wonderful memories.

Her adored mother and father preceded her in death. She is survived by her three
children Anthony Natoli of Glenview, Illinois, wife Debbie, Catherine Melvin of
Austin, Texas, husband Stephen, Jacqueline Ricks of Spring, Texas, husband Tim,
her six grandchildren, her husband of 41 years John Natoli, and numerous family
members in South Korea, including her beloved sister.

A memorial mass will be held at St. Louis King of France Catholic Church, 7601
Burnet Road, Austin, on Thursday, September 9th at 10:00 a.m. Private interment
will follow at Austin Memorial Park Cemetery.

The family wishes to extend their heartfelt thanks and deep appreciation to all
who provided care, comfort, and prayers. Memorial gifts in lieu of flowers may
be provided to Hospice Austin (www.hospiceaustin.org).

Obituary and memorial guestbook available online at www.austinpeel.com

Chrystal Nelson

Chrystal Wendy Molyneux Nelson of Austin, Texas passed away on Friday September
2nd, 2011. She is survived by her two children, Dane and Danna, and her mother,
Gladys. Services will be held at the University Baptist Church in downtown
Austin at 1:00 pm on September 7th. Her request was in lieu of flowers please
make a donation in her name to Heifer International.

Ann Alderson Palmerton

Ann Alderson Palmerton of Georgetown passed away in the early morning hours on
Friday, August 19. Services will be held on Saturday, September 10 at 11:00 a.m.
at the First United Methodist Church of Georgetown, the Rev. Steve Langford
officiating.

Mrs. Palmerton was born on January 30, 1930 in Newport News, Virginia to Charlie
and Ann Cundiff Alderson. She studied Occupational Therapy at Columbia College
in Columbia, Missouri and Richmond Professional Institute (RPI) in Richmond,
Virginia before meeting her husband of 60 years, Major General (Ret) Leighton
Palmerton.

Ann was an excellent cook to the delight of her family and friends and she
enjoyed sewing, needlepoint and crafts from a young age. She was a gifted
seamstress and member of the American Sewing Guild. She and Leighton also
enjoyed square dancing for many years and she treasured the many friends she met
from the square dance community all over the country.

Her faith was an important guiding light in her life. She grew up in the
Methodist church and was a member of the First United Methodist Church in
Georgetown.

Throughout her adult life, Ann was an integral partner in Leighton's military
career. As they moved from West Texas, to California, from the Far East to
Europe, Ann's confidence, grace, and infectious smile endeared her to those
around her and she always made friends easily. She always could be counted on to
take young military wives under her wing to ensure their transition to a new
locale was seamless. She was an extremely accomplished hostess and loved
entertaining whether the guest list included high ranking officials or family
and friends at a neighborhood barbecue.

Ann's warm smile and loving nature will be greatly missed by her family. She is
survived by her husband Leighton, of the home, and her sons, Richard, of Austin;
David and his wife Lynn of Norman, Oklahoma; and, Robert and his wife Brenda of
Austin; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to the ALS Association South
Texas Chapter.

Lucy S. Pechacek

Lucy S. Pechacek, age 87, of Pflugerville, passed away on September 5, 2011.

She was born on May 15, 1924 in White Deer, Texas, to Peter Paul Snoga and
Gertrude Mary (Urbanczyk) Snoga. She married Otto Benjamin "O.B." Pechacek on
September 2, 1950. They shared nearly 60 years of marriage before his death on
August 23, 2010. She loved dancing, gardening, cooking, and any activity that
involved spending time with her family. After raising their six children, she
worked in the school cafeterias and retired from IBM. She was a member of the
USO during World War II and the Travis County Extension Club.

Those left behind to cherish her memory are her children, Joe Pechacek of
Austin, Karen and husband Walter Welch of Pflugerville, Charlie and wife Suzan
Pechacek of Round Rock, Jean and husband Skipper Lankford of Georgetown, Otto,
Jr. and wife Susan of Katy and Janice and husband Tommy Scrimshire of
Pflugerville; twelve grandchildren and thirteen great grandchildren. Lucy was
one of eight siblings, and leaves behind four brothers and three sisters, Sally
Skloss, Alvin Snoga, Gladys Snoga, Emil Snoga, Bennie and wife Pat Snoga, Mary
McDonald, and Pete Snoga, Jr. and wife Kathy. She is also survived by numerous
nieces, nephews and their family members.

Family and friends are invited to a visitation on Wednesday, September 7, 2011
from 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m., with a rosary prayer service beginning at 7:00
p.m. at Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Funeral Home, Pflugerville. Funeral services
will be held at 1:30 p.m. Thursday, September 8, 2011 in the Memorial Chapel of
Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Funeral Home with burial following at
Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Cemetery.

The family would like to express their sincere appreciation to the staff at
Heatherwilde Assisted Living, her extended family of friends at Heatherwilde,
and the staff of Odyssey Hospice for their loving care and support.

To share memories of Lucy with the family, please visit
www.cookwaldencapitalparks.com.

Wanda Monette West Riddle

Wanda Monette West Riddle, 83, of Austin, formerly of Hereford, TX, died on
Sunday, September 04, 2011.

Services will be at 2:00 p.m. Wednesday, September 7, 2011 at First Baptist
Church, Hereford with Reverend Kyle Streun, officiating. Burial will follow at
West Park Cemetery, Hereford. Arrangements are by Rix Funeral Directors of
Hereford.

Wanda was born January 20, 1928, in Post, TX. to Robert and Thelma Thomas. She
graduated from Post High School and attended Texas Women's University. Wanda
married Samie West in Post, TX. on December 28, 1946 in Slaton, TX. He farmed in
Hereford and she was a homemaker. Samie preceded her in death in 1971.

She later married Truman Riddle who preceded her in death in 2006. Following a
lengthy illness, she passed away at Gracey Woods I Nursing Home in Austin. She
is survived by daughter Jan Tardy and her husband Don of Austin, and son Jay
West and his wife Donna of Hereford. Her son Joe West of Hereford preceded her
in death in 2002. She is also survived by four grandchildren and eight
great-grandchildren.

The family suggests memorials to go to First Baptist Church, 500 North Main
Street Hereford, TX or Gracey Woods I Resident Care Fund, 12021 Metric Blvd.
Austin, Tx 78758.

Charles Miller Rinehart

Charles Miller Rinehart of Mart, Tx, formally of Austin passed away Wednesday,
August 31, at the age of 67.

He was a member of the First United Methodist Church of Mart, Tx.

Preceded in death by parents: John and Roberta Rinehart, sister Lizzie Beth,
brother Angie.

Survived by: wife, Mary Castillo Rinehart; children Ben Zapata Jr of Leander,
Tx, Christine Vasquez and Lupe Thomas both of Austin, Tx., Chris, Carrie and
Jackie; sister Mary Curtis of Mesquite, Tx.; brothers John of Paulsbo, Wa, Bob
of Anchorage, Al. and Claude of Dallas; five grandchildren Pete Jr., Angelina,
Dominic, Michael and Timothy; two great grandchildren, Joaquin and Daisy.

Memorial Services on Saturday, Sept. 10 at 2:00 p.m. at St. Johns United
Methodist Church, 2140 Allandale Rd, Paster Arlene Turner officiating.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to First United Methodist Church of
Mart, Tx. 701 E. Texas Ave. Mart, Tx 76664

Phillip Rogers

"'Twas in another lifetime, one of toil and blood

When blackness was a virtue and the road was full of mud

I came in from the wilderness, a creature void of form

"Come in," she said, "I'll give you shelter from the storm"

- "Shelter from the Storm" by Bob Dylan

Phillip Rogers was born December 24, 1956 and passed away September 3, 2011.

To have known him was to know that he was an expert in American engines and
could fix them all, he had world class Chess skills, and the he was constantly
planning and designing his super computer. In a short conversation with him you
would have learned that he was a Master of Time and Space, Rock n' Roll
Philosopher and Conspiracy Theorist of the highest order.

And in truth he was all of these things because he was who he was with everyone
at all times. He was the funniest man in the room and most generous person in
the world. He knew no stranger or limit to what he was capable of giving.

He loved his family above all things - his soul mate Amelia "Mil" Ruiz, his
children "the Rogers Gang" - Jeremy, Amanda, Elizabeth, Jennifer and Samantha.
He also leaves behind his two brothers Richard and Raymond Rogers and all the
family who called him Uncle Phil and friend.

He would want everyone to know that God is good, God is great and God is never
late.

Friends are cordially invited to a visitation with the family from five o'clock
until seven o'clock in the evening, on Wednesday, the 7th of September 2011, at
Cook-Walden Funeral Home, 6100 North Lamar Boulevard, Austin, Texas.

Funeral Services will be conducted at seven o'clock in the evening on Wednesday,
the 7th of September, in the Colonial Chapel of Cook-Walden Funeral Home, 6100
North Lamar Boulevard, Austin, Texas.

Condolences may be sent to www.cookwaldenfuneralhome. com.

Barbara (Bobbie) L. Walker

Services for Barbara (Bobbie) L. Walker, of Salado, will be private.

Bobbie Walker died September 1, 2011 at a local Temple hospital. She was born
July 3, 1930 in Mullins, S. C., and was raised by Washington Almon and Ann
Norton Lonsford.

Bobbie was a graduate of University of Houston and was a speech pathologist for
the Houston ISD for over 25 years. She also co-owned Maford Center, a learning
center for special needs children.

She enjoyed raising gardenias, Derby Day, and watching football where her
favorite teams were the Texans, Cougars, Aggies, Nittany Lions, and Longhorns.
She was an avid animal advocate and had worked in wildlife rescue along the
beaches of the Texas coastline. After moving to her daughter's ranch in Salado,
she fed and cared for all the local animals. Her dearest companions were her
dogs, Murphy and K.T.

She is survived by her sister, Peggy Singletary of Thomasville, GA; her
daughters Terri Walker of Austin/Lake Conroe and Kim Walker of Salado; her
wonderful grandsons, Jeff, Bryan and Stephen Hetzel; her FOCs, Lori Wick and
Javier Garcia; nieces, nephew, and grandnephews; and many other special friends.

In lieu of flowers, Bobbie would prefer donations to your favorite animal
charity or Special Olympics.

Arrangements are being handled by Broecker Funeral Home of Salado.

In Memory of

Alexander "Ola" Gonzales

Sept. 7, 1963 - Feb. 6, 2011

Happy Birthday "Ola". It's been seven months that you've been gone. All the pain
and grief is over. Every restless tossing passed; I'm now at peace forever,
safely home in Heaven at last. Missing you always. Mario and Adolph Jr., niece
Ariana Gonzalez

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Social Security in spotlight as Perry, rivals meet in Florida

BYLINE: Kate Alexander AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1399 words


DeBARY, Fla. - A well-known retirement haven, Florida would seem to be dangerous
territory for Texas Gov. Rick Perry to tout his unabashed position that Social
Security is a failure and a fraud.

And former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney , Perry's fellow front-runner for the
Republican presidential nomination, is bound to continue hitting Perry hard on
the issue in tonight's televised debate, the second in a week.

Romney maintains that Perry's controversial position on Social Security would
cripple the Texas governor in a general election against President Barack Obama.

As the nation's largest swing state, Florida will be key to any White House
victory. It could also be decisive in the Republican primary as state leaders
are angling to make Florida an early voting state.

Perry's take on Social Security - and his unvarnished language to describe his
views - might not be as perilous in Florida as many people think, said Susan
MacManus , a political science professor at the University of South Florida who
has written about senior voters and Florida politics.

"In the past you might have said it would have been the kiss of death, but I
don't think you can say that anymore," MacManus said.

Despite the perception that retirees dominate Florida, the over-50 crowd makes
up about 52 percent of the state's registered voters, MacManus said.

Though older voters are more likely to go to the polls, she added, Florida
retirees tend to be younger, healthier and wealthier than their peers elsewhere
and thus not as dependent on Social Security.

For the other 48 percent of voters, the immediate issues of high unemployment
and home foreclosure rates could trump concerns about retirement security down
the line.

Florida's unemployment rate lingered at 10.7 percent in July - compared with 9.1
percent nationally - and it has among the highest foreclosure rates in the
country.

Perry argued during last week's debate that benefits should not be changed for
Americans who are already retired or are nearing retirement, but it is a
"monstrous lie to our kids" that they'll be able to count on those same benefits
being available to them.

"It is a Ponzi scheme to tell our kids that are 25 or 30 years old today,
'You're paying into a program that's going to be there,'" Perry said.

Romney countered, "Under no circumstances would I ever say by any measure it's a
failure.

"You can't say that to tens of millions of Americans who live on Social Security
and those who have lived on it," Romney said.

There is a growing bipartisan understanding that reforms are needed for federal
entitlement programs, such as Social Security, to be sustainable. The difference
with Perry, however, is his claim that Social Security is unconstitutional and
the language he chooses to use, which he admits is provocative.

MacManus said Perry's choice of words has certainly been making news in Florida,
but it might just resonate with younger people who question whether anything
will be left for them.

Talking about Social Security reform worked last year for tea party favorite
Marco Rubio , now one of Florida's U.S. senators. He made a big issue of Social
Security changes during last year's campaign and coasted to victory in a
three-way race that included Gov. Charlie Crist .

Heather Searfoss, 41, said she believes Perry hit the nail on the head with his
Social Security comments.

"It is a Ponzi scheme. There is no money left for the 25, 30, 40 - me," Searfoss
said before a Tea Party Express event in Central Florida on Sunday. "We have to
fix it."

About 100 people gathered at a DeBary park-and-ride along Interstate 4 for a
9/11 memorial event that offered mostly praise music rather than the typical
political rhetoric.

It was the last stop for the Tea Party Express bus, which started a
cross-country trek two weeks ago, before hitting Tampa, the site of tonight's
debate. The Tea Party Express is sponsoring the debate with CNN.

Searfoss, a restaurant server, said Perry's ideas might be a tough sell in
Florida but she's leaning toward backing him unless Sarah Palin jumps into the
race.

Ron Redlich, a Republican leader in Orange County, which includes Orlando, said
the nation's tenuous economic situation makes it essential to talk about Social
Security.

"I absolutely think he's 100 percent right," Redlich said of Perry. "As much
criticism as he's getting, good. He could use that to generate a lot of interest
in himself."

Any attention is good attention, Redlich said, because Perry is little known in
Florida.

"As long as I've been in politics, he's new to me," said Redlich, 69 , a retired
commercial banker who has been involved in Republican politics since 1960 .

John Stemberger , president of Florida Family Action, a socially conservative
political action group, said there is a growing consensus among evangelical
leaders that Perry is the candidate to support.

They like that Perry speaks openly about his faith and the problems facing the
country, he said.

"We're living in a political climate where people are getting fed up with
toe-tapping dancing around the issues and playing the political games,"
Stemberger said.

Starting with tonight's debate, Florida will get a lot of attention from the
Republican presidential hopefuls over the next few weeks.

By month's end, the race here should firm up after Florida hosts another
nationally televised debate - in Orlando on Sept. 22 - as well as a major
conservative gathering the next day and a straw poll on Sept. 24.

Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann , who won the Iowa straw poll in
August, and Romney have said they won't participate in Florida's Presidency 5
mock election. But Perry is "fully committed" to the straw poll and will speak
to the 3,500 GOP activists in attendance, Perry spokesman Ray Sullivan told the
St. Petersburg Times.

Around that same time, a state commission might finally set the date for
Florida's 2012 primary.

Florida wants to squeeze into an early primary spot after South Carolina votes
on Feb. 28 but ahead of Super Tuesday the next week.

That fifth spot after Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina could be
decisive if Perry and Romney come into Florida having split the difference.

"Candidates tend to be weeded out by the time they get to Florida, and that's
what all the fuss is about," said University of Florida political science
professor Stephen Craig .

Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, for instance, bet his 2008 presidential bid
on ignoring the early states and winning Florida. In September 2007, Guiliani
was leading the field, Craig said. In January's primary, early state winners
John McCain and Romney had gathered enough momentum elsewhere to overtake him in
Florida.

Florida is big and diverse and is key to winning the White House in 2012, so it
is a perfect proving ground for contenders to demonstrate they can win
nationally, said Brian Hughes , communications director for the Republican Party
of Florida.

"It deserves a spot that reflects all the important components of who we are,"
Hughes said.

Florida could face repercussions from the Republican National Committee if it
jumps the line. The national party has threatened to halve the number of
delegates to next August's nominating convention for any state that doesn't
abide by the approved calendar.

Florida faced a similar sanction in 2008, but it mattered little in the end. And
Tampa is hosting the 2012 convention, so a heavy-handed punishment seems
unlikely.

Billie Tucker , co-founder of the First Coast Tea Party in Jacksonville, said
she likes Perry's record in Texas and appreciates his willingness to challenge
the federal government.

At the same, she said, Perry "still has a lot of convincing to do" and will have
to get up close and personal to win tea party supporters over.

Florida, however, is not Iowa, where candidates can easily reach a critical mass
of voters through direct contact because the state is so small.

This state is huge, and campaigns in Florida tend to focus their time and
resources on broadcasting their messages across the state's 10 media markets.

"In Florida, you better have some money to spend, or you're not going to be able
to get your message out," Craig said.

kalexander@statesman.com; 445-3618

CNN-Tea Party Express
Republican debate
 What: Eight contenders for the GOP nomination for president will square off in
 Tampa, Fla.
 When: 7 to 9 tonight
 Tune in: Live broadcast on CNN,
CNN.com and CNN Radio.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 895 words


Thanks from Steiner Ranch

A special thanks to H-E-B and Stubb's Bar-B-Q for hosting a wonderful community
event in Steiner Ranch on Saturday . It was an opportunity to gather, share
stories and rally those in need. Bastrop is greatly in our hearts.

It also was a chance to thank the firefighters, police officers and emergency
workers who served us well.

Thanks, H-E-B, Stubb's and all those who made and are making a difference.

Jennifer S. Johnson

praisehiminaustin@att.net

Austin

Firefighter 'glitch' no excuse

Re: Sept. 9 article "Firefighters who arrived to assist are turned back."

I can appreciate that the volunteers might have had inadequate training or
equipment for dealing with a fire of such magnitude. As a result, though
firefighters deal with hazards daily, these would be subject to greater risk.

At the same time, such volunteer firefighters would seem better able than most
to help deal with any fire. With a season of record-breaking heat and drought,
our state and its communities are more vulnerable than ever, with such a
conflagration almost inevitable. Couldn't these volunteers have been used in
some capacity? A "glitch" is no excuse in a desperate situation.

Robert Scott

Austin

No 'minimal' tax increases

Wow! I almost did a back flip in my chair when I read the Sept. 9 editorial, "No
such thing as 'minimal' tax hike." Kudos to the editorial board as this
editorial is way past due.

The only item I would have added would have been to the end so it would have
read, "That means acknowledging that no tax hike is minimal or necessary."

Richard Simpson

Round Rock

Blindly following Obama

Re: Sept. 10 editorial, "Americans need this jobs package."

Another speech by our president. Another love fest by the American-Statesman's
editorial board.

Apparently you didn't learn from President Barack Obama's "American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act," which cost $840 billion and has little to show so for it. If
you need some help on how well the first stimulus worked, Google "100 Stimulus
Projects: A Second Opinion" by Sen. Tom Coburn. It will educate you on
unquestioned government spending from the Recovery and Reinvestment Act.

Why are you so blind and willing to embrace the president's demands without
questioning where and how the money will be used? This administration has shown
no ability to manage the economy, yet you are so trusting of them to make
deficit-neutral spending while kick-starting the economy. Are you that
forgetful, naive or just brazenly partisan?

Please put the Kool-Aid down and detoxify yourselves.

Torry Noonan

Austin

Partisan Congress does nothing

On Sept. 8, President Barack Obama proposed a jobs act and defined its main
goals. During his address, our elected representatives insulted the president by
sitting, standing or applauding in unison at the direction of their party's
leadership, not as representatives of the people .

Question: What can Congress accomplish when every proposal, regardless of its
merit, is stonewalled by one party or the other? Answer: nothing.

I believe that our Congress can accomplish something, but only if the behavior
of its members changes. I'm not a Republican or Democrat, liberal or
conservative - just an American.

Our representatives must support every effort to work together as a Congress,
regardless of party affiliation, to solve the problems outlined by the president
- not necessarily with his solutions, but without the political wrangling that
accomplishes nothing.

Robert Lakari

dbl@vgstars.com

Wimberley

When billionaires rule

One just has to laugh at conservative claims that regulation slows the economy
when the unnatural, disorderly market they worship would soon tear itself apart
without complex rules and regulations enforced by courts and boards of trade.
Just peruse a book on contract or property law. Then contemplate the economic
disaster when financiers were allowed to act without rules, lie about what they
did, and be bailed out instead of jailed.

The real issue is who does the regulation for whose benefit. Conservatives of
both parties let unelected billionaires write and enforce the rules instead of a
government representing all the people. This is why the rules and regulations
favor the wealthy few over those who work for a living, and are inflexible so
small businesses cannot compete with large corporations.

America needs politicians and regulators ruling in justice and equity for the
people instead of the billionaires.

Nathan G. Hardee

Austin

True energy costs

When I use electricity to power my TV or fridge, there are energy costs I don't
consider when I pay my electric bill. Sulfur emissions from coal electricity
affect farm families near the power station in La Grange. Ozone and particulates
make it difficult for kids to be outdoors. These are costs I mostly dodge in
South Austin.

But carbon emissions from coal hit close to home. Carbon dioxide from coal goes
directly from generator stacks to the skies. Carbon dioxide persists in the
atmosphere, trapping heat from sunlight that warms the planet and destabilizes
the climate.

I dodge coal electricity's full costs. In the future, our kids will not. As
parents and grandparents, it's important that we tell our municipally owned
utility that we have a category of young consumers who disproportionately bear
today's energy costs.

Austin should decarbonize its electricity by moving beyond coal.

Jeffrey Crunk

Austin

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 322 words


'He understood American society very well. He understood American idioms and pop
culture and how to appeal to Americans. It's very hard for them to replicate
this.'

RICHARD MINITER

Author of 'Losing bin Laden,' quoted by FoxNews.com on the importance of the
U.S. drone-strike killing of U.S.-born Anwar al-Awlaki, who is thought to have
inspired attacks including the 2009 slaying of 13 people at Fort Hood

'We are rapidly approaching the time when arguing about one set of political
tactics versus another may be about as useful for Mr. Obama as rearranging deck
chairs on the world's most famous passenger liner.'

KARL ROVE

Republican strategist, writing in The Wall Street Journal about President Barack
Obama's

job creation proposals and political prospects

'You've got a governor whose state is on fire denying climate change.'

BARACK OBAMA

U.S. president, including Texas Gov. Rick Perry in a critique of Republican
contenders for the Oval Office

'The only time the Legislature sits down and thinks about the fairness of the
system and adequacy of the system is when they're facing a court order.'

DOUGLAS KILLIAN

Superintendent of the Hutto school district, one of more than 100 in Texas that
are preparing to sue the state over what they contend is an unfair,
unconstitutional school finance system

`It isn't yet the case that every American voter is obese, but we're making
remarkable progress on that front.'

MICHAEL KINSLEY

Columnist for Bloomberg View, discussing how the heftiness of New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie might affect his chances if he were to run for president

The Top 5
 The most popular news stories on statesman.com (Sunday through Thursday)
 1. Live sex shows, hazing alleged in suit against UT fraternity
 2. Mystery surrounds man killed on Texas coast
 3. New Braunfels widow fights sleep apnea in transportation
 4. In downtown Austin, officers patrol a challenging beat
 5. Hays County has new vision for Texas 45 Southwest


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 20, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

11,000 square feet, and all of it happily used

BYLINE: Nicole Villalpando AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: STATESMANHOMES; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 909 words


Jim and Elaine Pyler first looked at their home at 413 Heritage Loop in Hutto to
see what an 11,012-square-foot home looked like. They saw the backyard with the
pool and the playscape and fell in love.

That was six years ago. They were in the middle of a major lifestyle change,
deciding to move out of California to find a middle ground between his love of
wide open ranches and her love of the bustling city.

And while he, an independent contractor for Toshiba, and she, a stay-at-home mom
who home-schools their two children, never imagined being able to fill up the
home's space, they thought it was a good compromise between their two very
different home setting preferences.

The home sits in the middle of a triple lot of almost 22 acres in the gated
Heritage at San Gabriel neighborhood. It provides the feel of a neighborhood,
yet the Pylers have expansive country views. They have wildlife taking advantage
of the creek on the property, yet they are a 45-minute drive to Austin, a
15-minute drive to Georgetown or Round Rock.

While they have settled nicely into life here, the Pylers have put the estate on
the market for $895,000 with Dave Murray with Coldwell Banker United Realtor.
They plan to move temporarily to Pennsylvania to take care of ailing parents but
plan to eventually return to Texas to look for a ranch in West Texas.

Despite the home's size, it's comfortable for a family, with many amenities for
playtime.

The front of the house sets the tone of a traditional Texas limestone two-story
home mixed with Georgian details such as columns and balconies.

The covered front porch opens to the large foyer with sweeping staircase. A
dining room sits to one side of the foyer. A hallway to the master suite is to
the other side.

Ceramic tile floors lead to the large living room with two-story windows
overlooking the pool. The living room offers two-story built-in bookshelves with
a ladder and a large built-in aquarium, which has all the filtration equipment
hidden in a room behind the aquarium.

The main family living spaces begin with the large open kitchen with double
walk-in pantries and a breakfast nook. The kitchen is outfitted with a large
granite-topped island that is angled toward the family room. Dual dishwasher
drawers, double ovens, two sinks and six-burner range make this an easy home in
which to prepare Thanksgiving dinner. A bar area and climate-controlled wine
room is between the kitchen and the dining room.

The family room features a limestone fireplace on one wall. Large windows lead
to a second covered backyard patio. This patio leads to the pool with separate
hot tub, built-in slides, grotto, waterfalls and swim-up bar.

Separate patio entrances lead to the game room area of the house. The game room
features a full bar with a sink, dishwasher and refrigerator. A window opens up
to serve as a pass-through to the pool patio outside. A full bathroom rests next
to the bar and serves as both the game room bath and the pool bath.

A full theater room off the game room offers a separate closet for the
projection equipment and DVD storage.

The rest of this side of the downstairs provides a large utility room, mud room,
powder room and two three-car garages, one off the family room and the other
across the porte cochère at the side of the house.

The large master suite features just about everything seen in master suites. A
study offers a bay window. A powder bath sits across the hall from the study. As
you go deeper into the suite, the level of privacy increases. An exercise room
offers views of a covered porch and a mirrored wall. The master bedroom provides
its own circular sitting area that juts out by the covered porch. The large
master bathroom features his-and-her vanities, a jetted tub in the center and a
full walk-in shower behind the tub with eight shower heads. A large master
closet with many built-ins and an island is at one end of the bathroom; at the
other end, a dressing area leads to a second closet.

Upstairs, the four bedrooms are grouped in pairs. At the far left, two bedrooms
share a Jack and Jill bathroom with separate tub and shower. Each has large
walk-in closets. The bedroom that faces the front of the house features a
balcony.

At the other side of the second floor, the two bedrooms here share one large
bathroom with a shower and separate bathtub. These bedrooms sit behind the large
children's play room with built-in desks for computers, built-in bookshelves and
a balcony.

The upstairs provides a second laundry room and storage closet.

A walkway takes guest above the porte cochère across to the garage apartment.
This apartment offers separate entrance from the garage, as well. The Pylers
have used this room as their home school, but it can be a nanny's quarters, a
space for an elderly parent or a guest suite. The apartment offers a
kitchenette, a living room and dining room space, a full bathroom and a bedroom.

The house features computer-controlled lighting, security, surround sound and
thermostat system. Horse enthusiasts could fence in part of the property for
pasture or use the neighborhood's stables. Future homeowners also could sell one
or two of the three lots.

The Pylers have loved the home's natural surroundings, which have added to the
home-school lessons. Elaine Pylers also has loved all the windows in the house.
"It makes the house really happy," she says.

The house will be open 1 to 3 p.m. today and Dec. 4.

nvillalpando@statesman.com; 912-5900

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 27, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

Stopping pipeline won't put stop to Canadian oil

BYLINE: JODY SEABORN AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 763 words


Even though it had said it couldn't possibly reroute its proposed Keystone XL
pipeline around the environmentally sensitive Sandhills region of Nebraska,
TransCanada Corp. discovered a couple of weeks ago that yes, actually, it could
move its pipeline to accommodate objections from Nebraskans - and to possibly
put new pressure on the Obama administration to expedite a decision it had said
a few days earlier it wouldn't make until after next year's presidential
election.

The Obama administration announced Nov. 10 that it was putting off deciding
whether to approve the pipeline until early 2013 to give itself enough time to
study a new route that would avoid the Ogallala Aquifer, a source of drinking
and irrigation water for Nebraska, a half-dozen other states and the Texas
Panhandle. Farmers, ranchers and government officials in Nebraska, including
Republican Gov. Dave Heineman, joined environmental groups in opposing the $7
billion pipeline.

Heineman and legislative leaders in Nebraska, however, said they would support
the pipeline if it were rerouted. On Tuesday , Heineman signed a bill that
authorizes a state environmental review of a new pipeline route. Nebraska - at
least official Nebraska - is back behind the pipeline.

President Barack Obama's critics say his decision to wait until 2013 to decide
the fate of the Keystone XL pipeline was driven by his need to rally
environmentalists behind his re-election campaign. Maybe. Given the opposition
coming from Nebraska, he made the right call; a route around the Ogallala
Aquifer has to be studied first.

The Keystone XL project is a proposed 1,700-mile extension and expansion of an
existing Keystone pipeline that would carry oil from oil sands in landlocked
Alberta to refineries and ports in Houston and Port Arthur. Together, the two
pipelines would have the capacity to bring at least 1.3 million barrels of oil
per day to American refineries, though not all of that oil would stay in the
United States. The key word in this paragraph is "ports."

Still, the pipeline's supporters say Keystone XL will lessen America's need for
Middle Eastern oil and it will create around 20,000 jobs. Most of the jobs would
be temporary construction jobs - not that there's anything wrong with temporary
construction jobs, especially in this economy. But Robert Jones, a TransCanada
executive, recently told CNN that the number of permanent jobs the pipeline
would create would number only "in the hundreds." Subtract a couple of zeroes
from 20,000 when you hear the pipeline will create 20,000 jobs and you're
probably walking in its real employment neighborhood.

Surface mining what's known as crude bitumen from oil sands destroys forests and
wetlands and creates lakes of toxic sludge. When you think of oil you probably
think of the stuff that's pumped from the ground in West Texas or Saudi Arabia.
This is not that stuff. Extracting bitumen ore and turning it into oil takes
lots of energy and water.

Meanwhile, the State Department's inspector general is investigating possible
conflicts of interest regarding the permitting process for the Keystone XL
pipeline (because the pipeline originates in a foreign country, it needs a State
Department permit to be built). As The New York Times reported last month , the
department, following TransCanada's recommendation, hired Houston-based Cardno
Entrix to assess the pipeline's potential effect on the environment. Cardno
Entrix, which gave the pipeline a favorable environmental review, lists
TransCanada as a "major client."

We buy far more oil from Canada than from anywhere else - 720 million barrels
worth in 2010, compared with 395 million barrels from Saudi Arabia. Buying oil
from a stable ally is in the national interest. Exploiting an energy source that
will undermine efforts to move toward cleaner energy and that, if fully
unleashed, could represent "game over" for the climate, as NASA climatologist
James Hansen has declared, is not.

Big infrastructure projects always force us to balance risks and rewards,
benefits and dangers. On balance, the more you learn about the Keystone XL
pipeline, the harder it is to rationalize its construction.

But there's no optimism if the pipeline is not built. Our energy future will
depend on oil for decades to come. And Canada will find a way to exploit its oil
sands with or without the Keystone XL pipeline. Canada's oil will flow -
somewhere, somehow.

The more you learn about the Keystone XL pipeline, the more you realize that
stopping the pipeline ultimately won't change a thing.

jseaborn@statesman.com; 445-1702

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Margins tax isn't best option, but it's here

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 506 words


Texas' so-called margins tax was born in special session in 2006. The delivery
was fairly easy, but like all deliveries, it was painful at times. Hopes were
high that the tax would live up to its promise of delivering property tax relief
while providing the money needed to educate a young and growing Texas
population.

Most of you know that the tax was the child who continues to disappoint. It
failed to deliver on any of its promises, and we're stuck with supporting it.

The only public officials who have expressed something resembling a positive
comment about it were the seven members of the Texas Supreme Court who ruled
Monday that the tax is constitutional.

They didn't say it was a good tax. They didn't say it was a fair tax. They
didn't say it was an efficient tax. The court majority just batted back
accusations that the franchise tax was an unconstitutional income tax wearing a
flimsy disguise.

The Legislature voted - and Gov. Rick Perry signed - the tax into existence in
2006 after the Supreme Court ruled the school finance system unconstitutional.

Since its birth in 2006, the tax has evolved into a modified gross receipts tax.
Filers can take some deductions, but those aren't quite as broad as federal net
income tax deductions. It is the major source of tax revenue that funds most
state functions and was woefully short when legislators met in 2009 and 2011. In
2011, the two-year gap between income and expenditure requests was $27 billion -
a figure that resulted in a round of cutting programs and personnel.

The Legislature long ago lost its affection for the margins tax but hasn't been
able - or willing - to devise ways to make this errant child "do right."

The political climate for creating, imposing or raising taxes has never been
welcoming, but the last election cycle was toxic for raising revenue. So,
despite warnings about the dangers inherent in doing nothing from a variety of
voices, including that of state Sen. Steven Ogden, R-Bryan, chairman of the
Senate finance committee, the Legislature did little more than cut and raise
some fees. Local school districts were forced to raise taxes and cut services.

The time for explanations on why the tax doesn't work like it's supposed to have
long passed. The fact is it hasn't worked and won't work without some major
fixes.

Legislators passed on their opportunity to do something about this, and
unfortunately, they won't be able to take the initiative on overhauling the tax
system until the regular session in 2013. There is always the chance of a
special session between now and then. However, political circumstances,
including Perry's faltering presidential bid, minimize that possibility to near
zero.

So we're going to have to get used to this creature occupying space on the sofa
for a while longer. Meanwhile, you can grill legislative candidates who will be
asking for your votes next year their plans for financing state government.

If they try to change the subject, show those candidates the door they should
have shown this tax last session.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Evangelical Iowans split on religious candidates

BYLINE: R.G. Ratcliffe AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1500 words


When Gov. Rick Perry gathered national and state social conservative leaders in
Houston for a day of prayer called the Response, it looked as if evangelical
Christian voters would become the cornerstone of his campaign for the Republican
presidential nomination.

Then came a series of gaffes and poor debate performances, and poll numbers
indicated he'd lost some early backers and turned off prospective voters as
well. Now, as Perry seeks momentum from the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses to carry him
forward into primaries in South Carolina and Florida, his best hope for
political salvation may rest with those same social conservative voters.

But Perry faces several hurdles in his quest to win over evangelical voters -
who in 2008 represented 60 percent of those who turned out for the Iowa
Republican caucuses, according to television network exit polls, and made up 40
percent of the voters in GOP primary states.

There are simply too many social conservatives in the race at this stage. Iowa
evangelicals have a choice between Perry, U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann of
Minnesota, former U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and former U.S. House
Speaker Newt Gingrich.

In the early period when he was introducing himself to voters, Perry's record
and statements on some issues - a vaccine mandate for teen girls against a
sexually transmitted virus, in-state tuition for children of illegal immigrants
and the extent of states' rights to define marriage - alienated some
evangelicals.

Gingrich's recent rise in the polls suggests that at least some evangelicals are
willing to forgive the twice-divorced former speaker for his marital infidelity
as long as they believe he is the best candidate to take on President Barack
Obama in November.

As if those challenges were not enough, Perry is also racing the clock, with
only a little more than two weeks before voting begins.

"Perry really doesn't get a second chance to make a first impression. That's why
it's taking him so long to come back," said David Barton, the founder of the
Aledo, Texas-based WallBuilders , which promotes government policy based on the
Bible.

Perry falters after some unpopular actions

During the 2008 Iowa caucuses, evangelicals rallied behind former Arkansas Gov.
Mike Huckabee. He was a long-shot candidate and the only evangelical in the race
when he upset Mitt Romney, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and U.S. Sen.
John McCain of Arizona. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, in the past has
supported abortion rights, though he now says he opposes abortion.

Iowa social conservative leaders now fear their vote will split so badly that
all of their candidates will finish with single-digit support on caucus night.

"There's a good chance all three of our best candidates are going to go home
losers," said Cary Gordon, a pastor at Cornerstone World Outreach Worship Center
in Sioux City. "And if they lose, we're all going to lose because we're going to
have another hollow RINO (Republican in Name Only) Republican leader."

Perry himself is tamping down expectations. He said last week he's aiming to
finish third or better in the caucuses but that he's prepared to keep running if
he falls short of that goal.

Perry started off strong with evangelicals, with his record of pushing through a
Texas requirement that teens obtain parental consent for an abortion and of
having campaigned successfully for a ban on gay marriage in the state. With his
record of winning elections and raising money, he seemed like a natural for
social conservatives.

But then he upset them, some Iowa pastors said in interviews, by endorsing New
York's right to legalize gay marriage, which he described as a states' rights
issue . Perry quickly turned around and said he supported a national
constitutional amendment banning gay marriage, but the damage was done.

Bachmann then began attacking Perry over his mandate that teenage girls be
vaccinated against the sexually transmitted and cancer-causing human
papillomavirus. Social conservatives as well as tea party conservatives also
questioned Texas' policy of giving in-state college tuition to some children of
illegal immigrants and were insulted when Perry said anyone who doesn't support
the move doesn't have a heart. They also questioned his 2008 presidential
campaign support for Giuliani, an abortion-rights supporter.

And, finally, he lost ground with his debate stumbles.

"Rick Perry is a good guy " he came in right after the Iowa straw poll and stole
Michele's thunder," said Bachmann supporter Bernie Hayes, an elder at Noelridge
Park Church in Cedar Rapids. "But he has tended to implode."

Gingrich leads polls despite past infidelity

Now Iowa's social conservative leaders are caught in a fix. On issues such as
abortion and gay rights, there is very little difference between Perry,
Bachmann, Santorum and Gingrich.

"It's like they're kind of like really, really close cousins," said
WallBuilders' Barton. "A lot of the question is: We've got four folks with our
values. Who's got the best chance to beat the president?"

Gingrich, whose campaign was given up for dead in June, bounced back and took
first place in the polls after a series of strong debates. A recent CBS-New York
Times poll found Gingrich doing well with self-identified Iowa evangelicals who
will probably attend a caucus. He had the support of 33 percent of that group,
followed by Perry at 16 percent and U.S. Rep. Ron Paul of Texas at 15 percent.

But Gingrich has come under strong attack by Paul, who says Gingrich engaged in
"serial hypocrisy" on issues such as backing Democratic positions on climate
change and banking. And some social conservative leaders say they cannot support
Gingrich because he left his first wife while she was undergoing treatment for
cancer and was unfaithful to his first two wives .

Sioux City pastor Gordon, who is supporting Santorum, emailed a video produced
by Paul supporter Jason "Molotov" Mitchell to Republican voters in Iowa .

The video slams Gingrich for his divorces and likens him to recently divorced TV
personality Kim Kardashian. The video also says Gingrich trades in wives like
"used cars."

Others, however, say Gingrich has been married to his current wife, Callista,
for 11 years and has asked for God's forgiveness.

"In the minds of some, it does matter. But let's be honest, we've all made
mistakes," said Perry supporter the Rev. Dennis Bachman of the First Wesleyan
Church in Charles City, Iowa. Gingrich "has sought forgiveness, and at what
point do you extend a person grace?"

Perry, who is on a 42-city tour of the state, is attending Bachman's church
today to tell the congregation about his own faith, Bachman said.

Perry ads generating some renewed interest

One of Perry's biggest hurdles at this point may be his late entry into the
race. While he gathered 30,000 evangelicals into Houston's Reliant Stadium in
August, Bachmann gathered endorsements from 100 pastors across Iowa.

"The really strong Christian community activists were scooped up before he
(Perry) showed up," said Bachmann supporter Brad Cranston, a pastor at the
Heritage Baptist Church in Burlington, Iowa.

Perry's campaign is deep into a TV ad campaign designed to bring the wavering
evangelical voters to him. One ad is critical of allowing openly gay people to
serve in the military and accuses Obama of conducting a "war on religion." Perry
also has said he would support a constitutional amendment allowing prayer in
school.

"If you had asked me three weeks ago, I would have said Rick Perry was done,"
said conservative radio talk show host Steve Deace. "The television ads he's
been running for the past several weeks for the first time since he got in the
race have generated him some positive buzz, but he's still got a ways to go."

Iowa evangelicals are in a quandary about how to approach the race. Some have
even discussed trying to persuade Perry, Bachmann and Santorum that two should
drop out to endorse the other.

"Sixty to 70 percent of the folks are undecided as to who they're going to
support. Some folks in the Christian conservative movement are trying to say we
need to coalesce around someone," Hayes said.

Bob Vander Plaats formed the Family Leader organization in hopes that
evangelicals would unite around a single candidate as they did with Huckabee.
Vander Plaats said his board will meet Monday to decide on whom to endorse, if
anyone at all.

Vander Plaats said Perry did not do a good job early on of telling Iowans who he
is and what he wanted to do as a president. "He has a chance to rebound here.
People are willing to give him a second look," Vander Plaats said.

But for Brad Sherman, pastor of the Solid Rock Christian Church in Coralville,
Iowa, the time for second looks is over. Sherman said he does not question the
faith of any candidate, but he says he is for Bachmann because she has been
uncompromising in her political principles.

"We're not sticking our finger in the wind. We're sticking our finger in the
Bible," Sherman said.

rgratcliffe@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 119 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 25, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Take in arid landscape at nature center

BYLINE: Pam LeBlanc AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. F10

LENGTH: 634 words


FORT DAVIS - From a fast-moving car, the desert can look barren, with only the
occasional skin-snagging cactus to break the monotony.

Take a nose-to-spine look at it, though, and you'll find an unexpected (and not
always prickly) world packed with critters, plants and unusual geological
formations.

One good place to get that up-close look? The Chihuahuan Desert Nature Center
and Botanical Gardens outside of Fort Davis.

At the center, visitors can tromp through a box canyon, wet their toes in a
spring that's flowing despite the drought or amble through a 1,400-square foot
greenhouse bristling with 200 types of cacti.

We stopped by recently, spent a couple of hours hiking trails that crisscross
the 507-acre property, watched from a ridge as a herd of more than 20 deer
charged through a canyon far below and studied an excellent hilltop exhibit that
explains the volcanic formation of surrounding mountains.

The Chihuahuan Desert, of which this area is part, encompasses 220,000 square
miles and stretches from Albuquerque, N.M., to just north of Mexico City. It's
the largest of four North American deserts, and with 3,000 species of plants,
one of the most biologically diverse arid regions in the world. The nature
center alone is home to 115 species of butterflies.

"When I moved out here, people said, 'But the desert is so ugly.' To me, the
beauty is there. You just have to get out and walk through it and see it up
close," says Cathryn Hoyt, executive director of the Chihuahuan Desert Research
Institute, which operates the nature center. "Our goal is to get people to look
at the desert and appreciate it."

The last year has been a rough one for the institute, which was formed in 1974.

A wet 2010, followed by a hard freeze and then severe drought created acres of
crisp, dry vegetation that served as fuel when fires flared in the spring. High
winds pushed the blazes around the Fort Davis area, consuming hillsides and
homes.

Most scientists agree that occasional fire is needed to keep grasslands healthy.
They're less certain about the benefit of fire in semi-arid grasslands,
especially when it's people-made.

"We don't have evidence here that fires were as important," says Hoyt, a
paleoecologist whose specialty is studying climate and vegetation change over
the past 40,000 years.

Interestingly, Hoyt had lobbied to conduct a controlled burn on part of the
property to help study the effects of fire. A test burn hadn't been approved,
but the wildfires that sprang up are giving Hoyt, whose home was destroyed, and
others plenty to contemplate.

"I'm a true believer in miracles, because it burned exactly what we wanted to
burn," she said. "It didn't burn buildings, the botanical gardens or hiking
trails. It just burned grassland."

The contrast between burned and unburned swathes of land at the center is
providing a good case study for researchers, who are interested in what life is
coming back and how quickly.

Hoyt says it could take black grama grass 30 or more years to recover but that
she's been heartened by how quickly some other plants are coming back.

Many visitors won't even notice which areas have burned, and there's still
plenty to see.

We clambered over rock outcrops, gazed at mountains in the distance and wrapped
up our visit with spin through the exhibits at the visitors center. (There's a
nice gift shop packed with nature-themed items.)

I left with a new appreciation of life in the desert, beyond the cactus.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

If you go
 The Chihuahuan Desert Nature Center is four miles south of Fort Davis on Texas
 118. The center is open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday, except
holidays. For more information, call 432-364-2499  or go to www.cdri.org.
Admission is $5 for adults, $4 for seniors and free to members and children 12
and younger.



LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
