
                               2 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 5, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Climate change gains head of steam

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN EDITORIAL AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 531 words


The collapse of the nation's financial markets, starting in September and still
sending shock waves through the economy, and the presidential election pushed
the issue of climate change off the nation's front burner. But the problem did
not stop to await the election outcome or the economic bailouts.

In fact, a new report from the U.S. Geological Survey says that previous
estimates of how rapidly climate change may be occurring probably have been too
conservative. In other words, it is happening faster than expected - and Texas
might feel its effects in the form of drought sooner rather than later.

The study was commissioned by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program, which
coordinates the work of 13 federal agencies.

The fundamental question asked by the study was whether climate change will
continue to occur at a relatively steady pace or if it might lurch forward. The
answer is mixed, because there are different manifestations of climate change.

The report concludes that rapid change in glaciers, ice sheets and thus sea
level could occur in this century, and that the southwestern United States
already might be beginning a period of severe drought. Already, the report says,
climate studies of North America and the global subtropics indicate that
"subtropical drying will likely intensify and persist in the future due to
greenhouse warming.

"This drying is predicted to move northward into the southwestern United States.
If the model results are correct, then the Southwestern United States may be
beginning a period of increased drought," the report says.

That's not to say our current drought is the direct product of global warming,
though it could be, or has been made worse because of global warming. But the
report gives no comfort to those who think that any truly noticeable climate
change - what the government report calls "abrupt change" - is centuries away.
Decades is more like it .

This is not a report that tries to blame everything on man-made global warming.
It notes, for example, that North America underwent some extreme "megadroughts"
between the years 900 and 1600.

Nor is it a fear-mongering study. It concludes that there probably won't be a
massive release of methane from the seabed, which could considerably worsen
global warming, nor that the Atlantic Ocean circulation system will suddenly
shut down.

But it does conclude that sea levels could rise by 4 feet by 2100 - versus the
1.5 feet predicted by a United Nations panel on climate change. That's a warning
that ought to be taken seriously now - especially along the Texas coast.

Unfortunately, it appears Texas government will try to ignore the problem of
climate change. Gov. Rick Perry, digging in his boot heels, seems to admit only
grudgingly that climate change is occurring, never mind that science has
concluded that it is being driven by humankind's use of fuels that produce
carbon dioxide - coal, oil and natural gas, primarily.

Perry says potential federal legislation to begin limiting carbon dioxide
production could harm the Texas economy. But drought and rising sea levels
won't? Texas needs to find a way to take the lead on this problem, not try to
pretend it will go away.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 4, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1008 words


Warm thoughts on a cold day

Re: Nov. 29 commentary "It doesn't change the facts."

The world's leading climatologists have been exposed attempting to hide the fact
that since 1998 the planet has been cooling.

Why is this important? Warming theory holds that carbon dioxide is the driving
force behind climate change. The more CO2, the warmer it will get - period. The
debate is over " remember?

Over the past 15 years, the CO2 count has risen dramatically. This evidence
obliterates the theory of man-made global warming.

Eugene Robinson sites the melting icebergs of Greenland. Let's not forget that a
thousand years ago they called it Greenland for a reason.

We're not saying the icebergs aren't melting. All we're saying is that it isn't
our fault and that there's nothing we can do about it. Robinson's wrong. These
facts change everything.

Stacy Pearson

Cedar Park

Eugene Robinson resorts to a "trick" of his own - the old debate technique of
posing a false choice.

None of the "deniers" (his word, not mine) is disputing the melting of Arctic
ice. What is in dispute is the reason for the phenomenon.

In true science, when the observable facts don't fully support the theory, you
change the theory. Instead, Phil Jones and those like him are "hiding the
decline," i.e. cooking the scientific books.

The column omits the fact that they were prepared to destroy data collected
under government research grants rather than submit it in response to freedom of
information requests. If they are so sure of their science, why are they
prepared to go to such extremes to cover up their methods and data?

Does this sound like science or political science? If their theory is solid,
they should welcome scrutiny.

Ron McCracken

Austin

Re: Nov. 26 article "Obama to set target on climate."

Is President Barack Obama in denial? There is no question the scientific data on
global warming has been rigged. Denial will not make the climate change scandal
go away.

Millions of people have been brainwashed by propaganda strewed by the likes of
Al Gore and world elitists. This has been nothing more than a construed plan to
take trillions of dollars from the middle class. Where is the outcry?

Carole Hawkins

carolehawkins@sbcglobal.net

Austin

You want reality?

Re: Nov. 28 article "Pair who crashed party met Obama, White House says."

To audition for a reality show, must you do something that takes advantage of
others, avoids protocols, creates a hoax situation or something that is totally
out of the ordinary? This is anything but reality in my book.

I've had it with folks who delight in taking advantage of others for their own
publicity. Are they craving attention, desperate, perverted or what?

Perhaps this incident is evidence in just how lax security measures are getting
in this country. Terrorists have their own version of "reality shows" and take
advantage of these situations whenever they can.

Mollie Hejl

Austin

Guns make a lot of news

Re: Nov. 28 letter "Fort Hood shootings."

Once again I see a remark to support concealed carry rights. Allowing guns is
the reason those shootings happened.

Another article (Nation Digest item "Man sought after four killed at
Thanksgiving") in the American-Statesman the same day is about a 35-year-old man
who allegedly shot his twin sisters, an aunt and a 6-year-old cousin at
Thanksgiving dinner in Jupiter, Fla.

What a headline to read. I would rather read: "An intruder is apprehended during
break-in by use of a stun gun. He was handcuffed and taken into custody.
Investigators say no one was killed."

Steve Carrizales

Round Rock

Guantánamo

Re: Nov. 27 commentary "A betrayal of our values."

I fail to see how detaining prisoners in the United States is different from
keeping them at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

The U.S. has had territorial control of Guantánamo through a perpetual treaty
with Cuba since 1903. It is effectively U.S. territory. If prisoners are
guaranteed constitutional rights here, they should have the same rights anywhere
the U.S. has control.

Perhaps Byron York agrees with the Cuban government that our presence there is
illegal.

David Ross

Austin

Opposing the draft

I might have missed it, but I have not seen a single dissenting letter regarding
the reinstatement of the draft.

Like so many others who have written, I, too, am a 'Nam-era vet and, like them,
I love this country. Unlike them, I strongly oppose conscription during peace
time.

Obviously, patriots wrote those letters. They should instead be asking our
political leaders to declare war through constitutional means. No war, no draft.

Should we have a volunteer force? Yes, and it should be prepared to keep the
barbarians from our shores until war is declared and the draft is instituted.

Jim K. Hudson

Briggs

Universal service

Some years ago, I attended a meeting of roughly a hundred midlevel Army officers
at the National War College in Washington, D.C. During the meeting, the officers
were asked whether they supported a return to the military draft. No one
responded.

I asked whether they would support a universal service requirement, where young
people could choose between military duty or work in Americorps, Vista or
comparable civilian programs. Every hand went up.

I believe those officers had the right idea.

Ross A. Smith

Austin

Should the U.S. torture?

No, but should the U.S. allow enhanced interrogation techniques? Yes.

We value life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Why should we allow
detainees, suspected of inflicting harm on our country, to relax while they know
more information about plans to harm our country?

Opponents of enhanced interrogation techniques argue that such techniques
violate human rights according to many accepted international and U.S. policies.

In response, the normative principles of rationality and least harm state that
any moral act must be supported by generally accepted reasons, and the act that
constitutes the least harm must be chosen.

We should not exercise enhanced interrogation techniques on all detainees, only
on those who withhold important, actionable information

Tim Phillips

tphilli2@stedwards.edu

Austin

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 752 words


Leave no trace

Re: Jan. 7 letter "Wasting time."

In response to recent environmental concerns about the "Resolution Clock" at
First Night Austin, the creators of the project want to express their commitment
to protecting the environment through our "leave no trace" ethos.

To ensure that our celebration was of net benefit to our community, we procured
twice the amount of carbon offset credits as our project consumed from the local
nonprofit Tree Folks. All lumber used in the manufacture of the clock was
nontreated, and all scrap metal is being recycled.

Our presence on Auditorium Shores was gone by Jan. 2, and the site was left
better than we found it. We spent more than 50 hours removing litter, and
another litter removal day involving a crew of more than a dozen is being
planned.

Finally, we have contributed $500 to the parks department to assist in site
renewal in the spring, when grass can better take hold.

Marrilee Ratcliffe

Community Art Makers

marrilee@communityartmakers.com

Austin

The American way

Re: Jan 2 article "Corruption reigns among Afghans, from top to bottom."

It does my heart good to learn that the people in Afghanistan are finally
beginning to use the U.S. government as a role model for restructuring.

Claude N. McClelland

Georgetown

In the face of evidence

Here's an analogy to the State Board of Education tussle: A crime has been
committed. The police have gathered fingerprints, hair and blood. They have
taken photographs and spoken to witnesses. They have investigated motive and
opportunity and have focused their attention on a prime suspect, who is then
arrested.

The mother of the suspect loudly protests that her baby couldn't possibly have
committed the crime and publicly condemns the police for ignoring her. In this
case, the police work is science. The mother's protestations are faith.

Which is more reliable? Why should anything based solely on faith be taught in
science class?

Dave Howard

Round Rock

GOP concerns

Re: Jan. 6 article "Obama pitches stimulus package."

I saw that House Minority Leader John

Boehner, R-Ohio, is all of a sudden concerned that future generations will be
saddled with the bill for the president-elect's stimulus package.

Where has Boehner been for the last six years as the current administration has
been financing the Iraq/Afghanistan wars with loans from other countries? Who
does he think will pick up that tab? Hypocrisy at its finest.

Bill Lewis

Austin

Scientific method

Re: Jan. 5 editorial "Climate change gains head of steam."

According to the editorial, "Texas needs to find a way to take the lead on this
problem, not try to pretend it will go away."

Demanding the scientific method of proof is how Texans should take the lead.

Scientists have been using the scientific method for more than a thousand years.
The scientific method requires collecting data, formulating a hypothesis,
testing the hypothesis and obtaining reproducible testing results. Unless
reproducible testing results are obtained, there is no proof of the validity of
the hypothesis.

Mother Nature has been causing climate change for eons. Currently, the popular
unproven hypothesis is that climate change is being caused by humans. Before
another cent is spent, this climate change hypothesis needs to be proven by the
scientific method.

Seldon B. Graham Jr.

Austin

Decider no more

Inadvertently catching President George W. Bush's remarks on his various exit
interviews or brief remarks to the press, I noticed that the swagger of the
"decider" has morphed into a hang-head slink like that of a dog who "messed" in
the house.

Mary Patrick

Austin

Presidential records

I am not surprised by Bush's executive order designed to prevent public
disclosure of his and the vice president's records in perpetuity.

Several years ago, there were conflicting opinions about the release of records
related to Vice President Dick Cheney's energy conference. John Carlin, then the
head of the National Archives, wanted public access in the name of open
government. Cheney thought otherwise.

Carlin resigned, and to my knowledge those records were never released.
Recently, Cheney announced his own edict about his records: He decides which of
his records should be released.

Apparently, Bush and Cheney do not understand that the records they create in
performing their official duties do not belong to them. Restricting public
access to their records potentially leads to a severe distortion of history.

President-elect Barack Obama would be correct in reversing Bush's executive
order.

Ramon C. Noches

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 15, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 954 words


Helping homeless mothers

Ken Herman called to mind our community's responsibility to care for those in
our midst who need our support, especially homeless mothers (June 7 column,
"Bearing the burden of those mysterious Austin street corner signs of
distress"). He wrote, "Surely there are services " for people in her plight."

There are.

The primary mission of VinCare Services of Austin is St. Louise House, a program
for homeless women and their children. We provide housing and supportive
services for families facing extreme challenges and obstacles.

VinCare works to heal the emotional, physical and spiritual wounds of
homelessness and to empower homeless mothers to secure stable housing, become
self-sufficient and end the cycle of poverty.

Last month, with her 3-year-old daughter in tow, a St. Louise House alumna
graduated from Texas State University with a master's degree in social work.
VinCare is here to help other formerly homeless mothers in Austin to make their
dreams come true, too.

Sharon Bieser

Executive director

VinCare Services of Austin

bieser@vincare.org

Austin

Tasing 72-year-old wrong

Re: June 10 article "Officials say officer acted properly in Tasing woman, 72."

After viewing the video of the officer using a Taser stun gun on the 72-year-old
woman, I understand why law enforcement officers deserve criticism regarding
their procedures. My sister and brother-in-law used to be in law enforcement in
Austin, and I rode along many times. When confronted with belligerent people,
they did their best to defuse the situation. The officer in the video did not
attempt to calm the lady and only aggravated the moment by yelling and screaming
at her. He was partially responsible for her reaction. Instead of his supervisor
defending the officer's actions, he should be sending the officer for additional
training in handling senior citizens.

Gary Brinkman

Austin

To say I was shocked and disgusted at the June 11 headline "Video of constable
using stun gun on woman a Web hit" is an understatement. A 72-year-old woman was
tortured by a constable and the Statesman decides to play up on the video's
popularity.

As a nation we should be appalled by the callous use of Tasers (torture) to
subdue everyone from grandmothers to college kids. Instead, we all have a great
laugh and make mash-up videos. I shouldn't be so surprised, though. Most of us
yawn as we now learn of the barbaric torture we have been using against those in
Gitmo and elsewhere.

What in the hell happened to my country?

Tim Bishop

timbishop4000@yahoo.com

Austin

After watching the video of Deputy Constable Christopher Bieze, it is obvious
that this officer just lost his temper.

He did not remain calm and try to be a peace officer. Instead, he decided to
send a 72-year-old woman a message that he was in charge via a potentially
lethal dose of electricity.

According to the June 10 article, the woman had pushed Bieze into oncoming
traffic.

I watched the video several times, and I think he was doing the pushing.

There are laws regarding the abuse of the elderly I don't think it says that you
can do so if they are using bad language.

Policemen should be trained not to let any words provoke bad behavior on their
part.

They are supposed protect the public. She was no threat, but he had a Taser and
wanted to make her pay for hurting his feelings.

Boo hoo. This cop should be relieved of duty for excessive force.

Ken Lottman

kenan01@aol.com

Houston

Glad to have opinions back

Thank you for restoring the opinion page. I was distressed when half a page
disappeared and was replaced by advertising. I understand that advertising is
important, but so are your readers. Replacing editorials with advertising is
just wrong. We started subscribing several years ago so I could read the
commentary, and I was contemplating canceling our subscription because of the
change. Thank you for returning to two full editorial pages.

Donna Bowling

Temple

Look beyond sexual orientation

I served in the U.S. Army for 34 years. In the course of my enlisted, warrant
and field grade experience, I encountered men and women whose personal lives
differed from mine. Some even had sexual orientations that were not part of my
lifestyle. Interestingly enough, I never met a person whose differing sexual
preferences got in the way of their solid work ethic, intellect, leadership and
common sense.

I truly wish I could say the same for those of heterosexual bent. We seem to be
more prone to instances of sexual harassment, impropriety and undue interference
in the lives of our subordinates. This society is and should be ready to accept
people on the basis of their knowledge, skills and abilities, whether in the
military or in civilian life.

As long as the executive and judicial branches support the tunnel view, no
significant and lasting change is likely in our society.

John Morgan

Retired lieutenant colonel

Austin

Climate change is here

Gov. Rick Perry recently referred to the science of climate change as "yet to be
solidified" (June 10 article "Perry says carbon dioxide limits would destroy
state's economy"). The science IS settled. We - both Democrats and Republicans -
are responsible for climate change. Listen to the scientists to learn about
science, not skeptics. Science is not partisan. The only un-solidified science
about climate change is how many billions of dollars it will cost future Texans
to address the higher temperatures, crop failures and rising sea levels for
centuries to come. That is the economy Perry should concern himself with. His
refusal to act while continuing to pump huge quantities of carbon dioxide into
our atmosphere is irresponsible to our children and is not the leadership Texans
deserve.

Joe Van Gompel

joe.van.gompel@gmail.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 16, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Local environmental activists not wowed by mayoral choices

BYLINE: Sarah Coppola AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1679 words


The Edwards Aquifer used to be the nexus of environmental politics in Austin.

City Council candidates eager to look eco-friendly would promise to protect the
aquifer, the Southwest Austin water source that feeds Barton Springs and is the
root of Austin's biggest development battles.

But this year's mayoral candidates are also talking about green jobs,
sustainability and renewable energy, themes trickling down from the national
dialogue about how to cope with climate change and the tanking economy.

Council Member Brewster McCracken , 43 , wants to work with San Antonio to draw
clean-energy firms here. Council Member Lee Leffingwell , 69 , wants to expand
programs to train people in green jobs. And former Mayor Carole Keeton Strayhorn
, 69 , opposes a solar power project the council recently approved, saying it
costs too much.

Real estate investor David Buttross , 39 , and hotel worker Josiah Ingalls , 28
, are also running to replace Mayor Will Wynn , who has staked much of his
reputation on a plan to reduce Austin's greenhouse gas emissions.

Environmental activists say they are underwhelmed by the records of the three
main candidates and torn about whom to endorse.

Some say they are still upset at Strayhorn's support of a South Texas nuclear
plant during her first mayoral tenure three decades ago. And they accused
Leffingwell and McCracken of voting identically, and against their wishes, on
nearly every major environmental issue, from water conservation rules to a new
water treatment plant to Wildflower Commons, a mixed-use project planned for
land over the aquifer.

"Environmentalists are wringing their hands because there isn't an obvious
choice," said Robin Rather , an environmental advocate and the CEO of a
sustainability firm. "It's the most important election we've had in a while, and
we don't have anyone we can count on."

The stakes are high, she said, because this election "goes deeper than just
'show me your aquifer credentials.' It has to be, 'How realistic and inspiring
is your plan to weave aquifer issues in with climate and renewable energy
issues?'"

Leffingwell

Leffingwell is the former head of the city's environmental board and has been
the council's de facto green leader since getting elected in 2005 .

He helped enact a ban on coal-tar paving products that run into and pollute
creeks during rainstorms. He led a group that wrote lawn-watering rules to try
to reduce Austin's peak water use by 1 percent a year. He started a program to
encourage stores to sell more reusable bags and stop plastic bags from ending up
in landfills.

He also led an effort to revise rules about redeveloping properties over the
aquifer. The old rules discouraged landowners from redeveloping sites with big
parking lots that create rain runoff and pollute the aquifer. Now, those sites
can be redeveloped if landowners add water-quality features or pay money to buy
open space.

Some environmental activists say the redevelopment rules are too lenient and say
Leffingwell should have pushed for a plastic bag ban and more aggressive
water-saving measures.

"He started out as a big hope for the environmental community and has proven to
be somewhat disappointing," said Karin Ascot of the Sierra Club's Austin group.
"But we've decided to endorse him because, during the endorsement process, he
committed to working with us more closely in the future."

Leffingwell said each of his policies took a lot of time and compromise, and he
said all have succeeded. Plastic bag use is down 50 percent, he said. Other
cities are adopting bans on coal-tar pavements. And Austin pumped 5 percent less
water on its peak water-use day last summer than estimates had forecast .

"The (activists) know me well, and I have a long record on environmental issues.
We haven't agreed every time, but at the end of the day, I think they know I'm
trying to do good work," Leffingwell said.

If he wins, Leffingwell says, he wants to start a program to let residents buy
credits to offset their carbon emissions. The money would pay for
energy-efficiency efforts, such as weatherizing the homes of poor residents, he
said. And he wants a committee to devise strategies for training workers in
green jobs, such as installing solar panels.

McCracken

McCracken says that he has driven the discussion about newer green concepts such
as solar power.

He pushed to increase city funding for an incubator at the University of Texas
where clean-tech firms can develop products. He created a partnership program to
let clean-energy businesses test their products on Austin Energy's grid, and he
helped form the Pecan Street Project, a group of energy and business leaders
that's researching ways to store and deliver renewable energy such as solar
power.

McCracken says he now wants to work with San Antonio to attract clean-energy
companies to the area through such ideas as property-tax rebates and purchasing
agreements.

Environmentalists don't quibble with McCracken's clean-energy ideas. But some
criticize him and Leffingwell for acting in lockstep on other, more traditional
green issues. Among the criticisms are: not taking a tougher stand against the
proposed expansion of a Northeast Austin landfill, rushing to OK plans for a
$2.3 billion wood-waste-fueled power plant with limited public input, postponing
a public hearing and vote on the Wildflower Commons project and not fighting
plans of the semiconductor company AMD to build offices over the aquifer.

"Lee and Brewster both have a propensity to green-wash rather than do things
that really need to get done," said Bill Bunch , executive director of the Save
Our Springs Alliance.

About 90 people came to City Hall last month to speak against Wildflower Commons
, a mix of offices, stores, housing and green space planned for 265 acres in
Southwest Austin.

McCracken said he had planned to vote for the project because it follows city
rules that limit paved surfaces and complies with the Bradley agreement, a
document that guides land use in that area. Leffingwell said he would have
opposed the project but agreed to delay the vote to sort out conflicting data
and give the developers time to improve the project's environmental features.

The case amplified activists' perception that the council relies on city
staffers and developers for advice and doesn't actively seek public input or
make available enough data, said Jackie Goodman , a former council member and a
board member of the Save Barton Creek Association.

There were last-minute discrepancies about how much car traffic the project
would create and what businesses would be built there, and not enough data were
released to answer those questions, Goodman said. And the council should have
asked the developers to negotiate with interested parties and environment
groups, she said.

Some environmentalists say they are still upset over the council's push for a
big new water plant.

Council members first wanted to build the plant on an ecologically fragile piece
of city land near Bull Creek in Northwest Austin. Activists helped persuade them
to seek another site, and they chose city land in a nature preserve that is home
to a rare bird. Environmentalists balked again.

The council opted to do another site search and buy land.

Environmental groups have now asked the council to delay building the plant,
saying that there's enough water to meet demand and that the city should focus
on conserving water instead of paying for costly infrastructure.

McCracken, Leffingwell and Strayhorn say the city should proceed with building
the plant's first phase, which is expected to produce 50 million gallons a day.

"I understand (environmental activists') criticisms about my record. But the
biggest environmental issue right now is climate change, and the centerpiece of
my platform is making Austin a leader in addressing climate change" through
clean energy, McCracken said.

Strayhorn

Some environmentalists laud Strayhorn's fight as state comptroller against some
toll roads, which they say exacerbate sprawl and car emissions. Strayhorn
opposed the Trans-Texas Corridor because she said the roads would wipe out a
half-million acres of Texas land.

But local activists still recoil at Strayhorn's support of nuclear power in the
1970s and 1980s.

Austin agreed to help pay for a South Texas nuclear plant before Strayhorn
became mayor. Nuclear power was touted as cheap, safe and reliable. But it was
during Strayhorn's tenure that the plant's costs soared.

News reports at the time cast Strayhorn as a defender of the plant, even as
activists who opposed it for moral, monetary and environmental reasons urged
city officials to quit the project.

Strayhorn said recently that Austin couldn't sever the ironclad contract it
signed before her mayoral term began.

"I was never a click-my-heels proponent of nuclear power, but I saw it as a
necessary part of our energy mix, and I wanted us to keep up with our financial
obligations so we wouldn't default," she said.

An April 1979 ballot item asked voters to grant more bonding authority to pay
for the plant. Shortly before the election, there was a partial meltdown at
Three Mile Island, a nuclear plant in Pennsylvania.

In TV ads, Strayhorn asked voters to support the bond item. They did, and they
also rejected a referendum about selling Austin's share in the plant.

That saga "suggests that (Strayhorn) is going to support ideas that are
conventional and oppose ideas that are new and related to renewable energy,"
said Paul Robbins , a longtime activist on energy issues.

The council recently considered but killed a proposal to build new reactors at
the nuclear plant.

Instead, Leffingwell, McCracken and the rest of the council agreed this month to
pay Gemini Solar Development Co. $250 million over 25 year to build a solar
array on 300 acres of city-owned land in Webberville.

Strayhorn said she's all for renewable energy but opposes the solar array
because it costs too much for too little power. It also won't keep green jobs
locally because the solar panels will be manufactured in China, she said.

scoppola@statesman.com; 912-2939

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

More churches see moral obligation to protect planet

BYLINE: Joshunda Sanders AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 673 words


Years ago, many religious leaders considered caring for the environment to be a
tree-hugger's enterprise. But the U.N. climate change summit held earlier this
month in Copenhagen showed just how popular environmental stewardship, the idea
that caring for the Earth is a moral responsibility , has become locally and
internationally.

Before the climate talks, international representatives from nine faiths created
"Many Heavens, One Earth," a document that lays out 30 plans for environmental
commitment among the denominations.

During the summit, Pope Benedict XVI released part of his World Day of Peace
message, which is typically delivered on Jan. 1, to urge world leaders in
Copenhagen to take swift action. In it, he said, "We can no longer do without a
real change of outlook which will result in new life-styles."

In Austin, a coalition of religious leaders called the Interfaith Environmental
Network began meeting in November to focus on raising public awareness about
environmental issues and changing public policies to promote environmental
stewardship.

The group plans to support Austin Energy's proposal that the city get up to 35
percent of its electricity from renewable sources.

"While faith groups often get divided over common themes, like gay marriage or
how we interpret the Bible, eco-justice seems to be a unifying position," said
the Rev. Lou Snead , a pastor at Faith Presbyterian Church in Austin, who helped
organize the network.

Laurel Kearns , an associate professor of the sociology of religion and
environmental studies at Drew University in New Jersey, said the relationship
between the environment and Christianity dates as far back as the 1700s.
Anglican theologian John Wesley wrote about the importance of Christians as good
stewards of the earth after he founded Methodism in 1739 .

"As our cultural conversation has turned more to recognizing the realities of
climate change," Kearns said, "I hear wonderful stories of current, creative
things churches are doing or enabling their members to do, by using alternative
energies, creating green church guides or even by looking at ways that they are
part of food systems."

Local churches and faith-affiliated groups have embraced environmental
stewardship in big and small ways. The Trinity Episcopal School in West Lake
Hills has installed 270 solar panels, said Julia Smith, a spokeswoman for the
school.

The Friends Meeting of Austin, a Quaker group, installed a 20-kilowatt solar
system on the congregation's three

buildings when it moved

into new East Austin digs in 2007.

On a smaller scale, Vox Veniae, a 3-year-old church with about 100 members, has
found ways to leave a smaller carbon footprint by carpooling and sharing
vegetables grown in their gardens, said Gideon Tsang , a church pastor.

The costs of merging faith with green initiatives can be steep. Smith said that
solar panel installation at Trinity Episcopal School cost about $300,000, but
the City of Austin offered almost $200,000 in rebates.

Some local religious leaders have raised concerns about the costs of going
green. While the Catholic Church is committed to preserving the environment, the
Diocese of Austin has raised questions about the costs associated with Austin
Energy's proposed renewable energy plan, diocese spokesman Christian González
said.

Austin Energy has said that the renewable energy plan would raise the average
ratepayer's bill by 22 percent, which would also affect churches.

Energy Star, a federal program that promotes the use of environmentally friendly
products, estimates that the country's 300,000 houses of worship would save $200
million for their missions and other priorities if they cut their energy use by
10 percent .

But González said that if church utility bills go up, the already dwindling
resources needed to fund social service programs will be strained even further.

"The Catholic Church is in favor of renewable energy, but it must be provided in
a way that does not disproportionately affect the poor," González said.

jsanders@statesman.com; 445-3630

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1368 words


Noxious gas

The government tells us that CO2 is a noxious gas. Because trees, flowers,
plants, vines and all things green breath in CO2, we can simply eliminate them.

Additional jobs will be created in the chainsaw, pruner and bush-whacker
industries, with a regulatory czar for each.

Oxygen, which all things green breath out, can be supplied by the government, at
nominal cost, to each oxygen user. Extra-large oxygen bottles can be supplied to
those attempting to convince us of the harm that CO2 does to the environment and
to those trying to tell us that a multi-mega-trillion dollar debt is the way to
run a government.

Lester G. Frazier

lesfrazier@aol.com

Georgetown

Brass knuckle intimidation

Re: Dec. 8 article "Pollution is threat to health, EPA says."

The Obama administration warned Congress that if it doesn't move to regulate
greenhouse gases, the Environmental Protection Agency will take a
"command-and-control" role over the process in a way that could hurt business.

This is brass knuckle intimidation - not only of politicians but also of every
business and every one of us. Who does President Barack Obama think he is that
he can threaten to harm our economy if we don't do as he commands? Is he now
king?

There is a simple fix. A new Congress can amend the clean air act to exclude C02
from the EPA's regulatory jurisdiction. Find those strong men and women who will
vote to end thuggery and tyranny and elect them into office this. Get involved
before Obama threatens even more of our liberties.

Lance Renfrew

lwrmailbox@yahoo.com

Pflugerville

Real situation about the climate

We seem to have lost the ability to find reliable sources of information about
global warming from the rubble of misinformation on TV and the Internet.

The only opinions that really matter are the views of climatologists who publish
in peer-reviewed journals dealing with climate change. For anyone who wants to
know the real situation, Google "Copenhagen Diagnosis" and read the current
report by NASA scientists and climatologists from around the globe.

A willingness to dig a little deeper and a dose of healthy skepticism is the
only way to navigate in today's media environment.

Diane Young

youngdw@centurytel.net

San Marcos

Climate deniers blowing hot air

From George Will on down, the climate deniers who claim the world is getting
cooler are blowing hot air.

It's the old trick of taking one statistic out of context. They base their claim
on the data that the world's hottest year on record was 1998. Yep, some years
are extra hot and some are extra cool.

But what other years are in the hottest top 10? From the same set of data, in
descending order, they are: 2005, 2003, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2001, 1997 and
2008. And that, as Paul Harvey used to say, is the rest of the story.

Steve Brooks

steve@stevebrooks.net

Austin

Hell in a handbasket

The Dec. 10 American-Statesman headline about having the highest-paid college
football coach and the promo for the many bars in the area for "folks who make
themselves at home in the pub" make one wonder what this world is coming to.

Texas ranks near the bottom of the 50 states in providing services for those
less fortunate, and when folks are struggling to pay for the basics of life or
to obtain help for mental illness and other disabilities, it is rather
disgusting to think of all the time and money spent on entertainment and
self-indulgence.

Thank God for those who still have their priorities straight.

Jackie Roberts

Burnet

Abortion question

Re: Dec. 10 commentary "Using tax dollars to fund abortions in Travis County."

The answer to the abortion question is simple. Ashley Sanchez and the other
anti-choice people must sign a legal document to adopt the pregnant mother, her
unborn child and the other children in that family and agree to house, feed,
educate and pay all medical costs for that family for the rest of their lives.

Until Sanchez and the rest agree to legally care for " our neediest neighbors,"
they have no moral right to deny these women the difficult choice of deciding
what is best for their families.

Kitty Page

Austin

Congressional hypocrisy

Shame is a meaningless term to the hypocritical, pretentious congressmen that
defend the unborn by proposing ways to remove federal funding for lawful
abortions willingly paid for by my taxes but righteously approve billions to
kill thousands of foreign strangers with my tax dollars, which I strongly
oppose.

Our government is wasting every taxpayer's hard-earned wealth on unwinnable,
wars against ill-defined enemies and the undiminished recreational drug demand.

It is time we stand up against our government's reckless deceit and wastefulness
and demand real change: drastically reduced spending, limited military
commitments, term limits, permanent scalebacks of every federal agency.

The federal government is a Hydra that needs the chopping block.

 Kerry Brix

Leander

Welfare students

The side-by-side Dec. 7 front page articles "Texas colleges lucky - for now" and
"Next stop: Pasadena" highlight that many students are receiving "welfare" when
they really have no need for it.

Recipients of state subsidies spend thousands of dollars on weekends for
entertainment (football game). If what they used to call "welfare mothers" were
doing this, there would be a great protest and demand to slash the subsidies or
even eliminate them.

By welfare, I am referring to tax dollars. Let's have students pay for their
education based on the financial need of their household.

Fred A. Bleeke

Walburg

Big tip for Starbucks workers

Re: Dec. 5 article "Starbucks worker reprimanded over tip jar altercation."

To the Starbucks employees on Congress Avenue: The next time a thief comes into
the store, tell him to leave the tip jar alone and to take the larger amount of
money in the cash register and put something in the tip jar for your advice.

Then the gutless wonders of Starbucks management can reap the rewards the logic
of their reprimand of Laura Palawski.

Laura said she would not pursue the low-life-thief again, and that is probably a
sound reasoning. She questions why she did what she did and will think
differently next time.

She did what she did because a low-life thief stole her money, and it was a
courageous thing to do and the right thing to do. She should be commended for
her bravery - not reprimanded.

Berry Cox

Austin

Faith in the system

that's spewing red tape

I recently received a letter from the Texas Department of Public Safety stating
that they have received information from the Social Security Administration
(SSA) that indicates the information contained in my Texas driver record file
does not correspond with the information maintained by SSA.

After being an American citizen for 86 years, serving as fighter pilot in World
War II (left photo, above), Korea and Vietnam, being awarded the Silver Star,
Legion of Merit, three Distinguished Flying Crosses, Bronze Star and 18 Air
Medals (all awards were for combat service) and achieving the rank of brigadier
general with more than 33 years of military service in the U.S. Air Force, I now
have to provide "acceptable documents" such as a birth certificate or unexpired
U.S. passport to prove that I was born in the United States. Then I have to
provide proof of my Social Security number.

I'm further advised by the Texas Department of Public Safety that my "Texas
driver record has been alarmed pending verification. Information obtained
pursuant to this review will be verified with SSA. You will receive additional
correspondence if the Department is unable to obtain a satisfactory
verification. The Department appreciates your prompt attention to this matter."

All this would be very humorous, except that it will entail time to search out
my 86-year-old birth certificate and spend several hours in line at my "local
driver license office," a practice which is not high on my to-do list in my
waning days.

One thought keeps crossing my mind: If the computer clicker in charge had tried
Google or Yahoo, we all might have saved some time and money.

Although Google's and Yahoo's information might not be official - it's accurate.

But never mind, I still have faith in the system that I fought for, and I'll
comply.

Richard M. Baughn

dickbaughn@austin.rr.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Greenhouse gases may be low priority for lawmakers

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 912 words


On the presidential campaign trail, both Barack Obama and John McCain said they
would champion federal measures that cap emissions of carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas linked to global warming.

But with "global warming" a radioactive term in the Texas Legislature, state
lawmakers in the coming session are expected to constrain their response to
environmental issues to a series of measures that encourage consumers to buy
efficient appliances and build more efficient houses and coax utilities to
invest in renewable energy.

The energy and environment issue is at the crux of the state's industrial and
demographic future. Home to manufacturing and oil refining facilities up and
down the Gulf Coast, Texas is the nation's No. 1 carbon dioxide emitter.
Meanwhile, with the state's population growing by as much as 50 percent by 2030,
utilities are proposing more power plants, some of them cheap-to-produce coal
plants.

Shaping policy under the dome, key lawmakers say they remain unconvinced auto
and manufacturing emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to a changing climate.

The issue could pit some of the state's top Republican lawmakers against one
another. On one side are Gov. Rick Perry, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and a host of
House committee chairmen who dismiss anxieties about global warming and who
torpedoed most pieces of environmental legislation in the last session. Along
with industry groups, they say any kind of federal caps on carbon dioxide
emissions could derail the state's economy and cost billions of dollars in
compliance.

On the other side are Republicans like state Sen. Kip Averitt of Waco and likely
House Speaker Joe Straus, who have indicated they think the state should try to
shape the impending carbon dictate from Washington rather than criticizing it.

Straus, who served on an interim committee on electric generation capacity and
environmental effects and authored an energy efficiency law last session, could
appoint a phalanx of chairmen on key energy and environmental committees and
expand incentives for renewable energy.

At least 12 pieces of legislation related to global warming were proposed in the
last session; only one, a bill calling for a study of Rio Grande water supplies,
passed.

Some Texas Democrats have said they hope to change that record. In a speech in
early December, state Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, told a group of venture
capitalists that climate change presented the state with an opportunity to
reshape its economy into one leading the way on alternative energy projects.

The state's leaders, he said, "seem more focused on waging battles against the
rest of the nation, against the world, in an effort to hold back the future
racing toward us."

This session, at least two measures, both filed by state Sen. Rodney Ellis,
D-Houston, aim to address global warming.

One sets up a fund to pay for "green job" training, or jobs related to
energy-efficient building, biofuels, home energy efficiency assessments, and the
manufacturing of sustainable products; the other orders the state to emit no
more greenhouse gases in 2023 than it did in 1990.

But interviews with key lawmakers suggest little hope for global warming
measures, especially ones that make no effort to disguise themselves as such.

"That term is contentious and off-putting to some people," state Rep. Charles
"Doc" Anderson, R-Waco , who is a member of the select committee on energy
capacity and the environment. He said the global warming debate remains
unresolved.

Actually, consensus among many scientists holds that Earth's climate is
gradually warming, in part because of humanmade emissions of carbon dioxide.

Perry has signaled opposition to limits on carbon dioxide emissions.

Instead, Republican leaders say they will propose measures that encourage the
manufacture and purchase of energy-efficient home appliances and toughen
building codes to make homes more efficient.

Likely speaker Straus, who authored a measure last session that set up a sales
tax holiday for energy efficient appliances, said "there's going to be more
interest and engagement in the environment."

But some Republicans said they would also call for a panoply of tax breaks and
subsidies for the construction of not just wind turbines and solar panels, but
also conventional forms of generation like coal-fired power plants.

"We need all of it," said state Rep. Rick Hardcastle, R-Vernon, who chaired the
Energy Resources Committee last session.

But some lawmakers said they think Texas should start preparing for federal caps
on carbon emissions.

"Texas is making a big mistake in not being at the table when those issues are
being discussed in Washington, D.C.," said Averitt, who chairs the Senate
Natural Resources Committee.

Averitt said he would propose a bill that could stiffen building codes and
appliance standards and offer incentives to retire old air conditioners and
refrigerators for newer, energy-efficient ones. But he said he would not support
any state proposal that limits carbon emissions in Texas because "if it provides
a competitive advantage in the other 49 states, I'm not interested in that."

Straus said the state should bide its time as the federal government decides
whether to regulate carbon dioxide emissions.

"The federal government will be more aggressive in this area, so the wise thing
to do would be to give it a little bit of time, to see what the appropriate
reaction from a Texas standpoint will be," he said.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

HIGHER EDUCATION

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 446 words


TEXAS STATE UNIVERSITY-SAN MARCOS

MEETING ON TAILGATING

University officials will host a public meeting Monday to discuss possible
changes in tailgating at Bobcat football games in the fall.

The meeting, at 4:30 p.m. in the Sac-N-Pac Room at Bobcat Stadium, is intended
to review comments from a Jan. 26 public meeting. The discussion will touch on
options for tailgating sites as well as rules and management issues.

Texas State plans to elevate its football program from the NCAA Football
Championship Subdivision (formerly Division IAA) to the highest level of
collegiate competition, the Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division IA).
Additional information is available from the university's Office of Community
Relations at 512-245-9645 .

STUDY ON HARVESTING TURTLES

Students and faculty members at Texas State are studying turtles and other
nongame species to determine whether they can sustain commercial harvesting or
require further protection or regulation.

The biology department is working on the project with several other universities
and zoos. The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department is paying for the research
with $200,000 a year for five years.

Turtles are being studied because they have historically been taken in
considerable numbers for the pet trade and the Asian food market. Future
research will include a study of the spot-tailed earless lizard, a species
native to the area that has been rarely seen in recent years, said Michael
Forstner , a professor of biology.

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS

DEVICE TO SPEED GENE RESEARCH

UT scientists have acquired advanced gene-sequencing equipment that could help
them unravel the genetic causes of disease, figure out how animals adapt to
changing climate and understand how genes influence aggression and other
behavior.

The SOLiDTM System from Applied Biosystems, a division of Life Technologies, is
expected to advance genomic research considerably.

Mikhail Matz , an assistant professor of integrative biology, plans to use the
SOLiDTM System to conduct comparative studies of coral reef populations from
different climates.

Matz is interested in the molecular mechanisms of adaptation to global climate
change. Such findings could improve understanding of coral biology and the
conservation measures needed to improve coral survival.

Researchers are likely to use the genomics tool in conjunction with the
large-scale number-crunching power of UT's Texas Advanced Computing Center, said
Scott Hunicke-Smith , director of the Genome Sequencing and Analysis Facility.

"No other institution can move as quickly as we can with the new sequencers and
computational backbone at TACC," Hunicke-Smith said.

Compiled from staff reports

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 16, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

For a change, gas tax action has a legislative chance

BYLINE: BEN WEAR AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 462 words


Stop me if you've heard this one: Texas' gas tax rate has been fossilized at 20
cents a gallon since 1991 and has lost more than half its purchasing power to
inflation. The Legislature will consider raising it this session.

Here's where the joke changes. Lawmakers might actually do it this time, and
Gov. Rick Perry has signaled that he could let such a bill become law.

Two caveats: It still might not happen. And if it did, the change - which would
allow the rate to increase with inflation - would be so small as to make little
difference for years.

Several factors contribute to this climate change.

Money for transportation is indisputably in drought, and lawmakers have mixed
feelings about the alternative to the gas tax: tollways.

Furthermore, Texas has fallen out of the gas tax mainstream. Not long ago,
Texas' fuel tax fell squarely in the middle among states. Now, only 13 states
have lower gas taxes; 14 are above 30 cents a gallon.

One is above 40 cents a gallon . Stunningly, it's New York.

Twelve states have variable gas tax rates, most of them in the form of a
percentage sales tax on fuel. That means they float up or down with the price at
the pump. Eleven states have local taxes on fuel, something Texas lawmakers will
consider authorizing this spring, subject to local voter approval.

Five states have increased by statute the per-gallon rate in the past six years.
Another five have indexed gas tax rates to inflation. Which is what would happen
here were Senate Bill 217 to become law.

State Sen. John Carona, R-Dallas , chairman of the Senate Transportation and
Homeland Security Committee , is carrying that bill. In 2007, Carona was a
lonely voice in pushing for a gas tax increase. He held a news conference
midsession to argue that it was necessary. No lawmaker stood with him that day,
and the idea went nowhere.

A truly meaningful gas tax increase, something like 10 cents a gallon (raising
an additional $1 billion a year for transportation), would be a "bridge too far"
politically, Carona said in a recent letter to fellow senators that also
advocated continuing to build some toll roads. But allowing the gas tax to float
up with a construction cost index, as his bill would do, might have a chance.

If inflation were 5 percent , that would increase the tax 1 cent a gallon in the
first year, raising about $100 million . Statewide, that's not much. Over time,
however, it could raise significant bucks.

That will also be the criticism, that it would be an out-of-control robotax. But
a legislature at any time can pass a law voiding that year's increase or even
cancel indexing entirely (as Wisconsin did in 2005 ).

We'll see how the joke plays this session.

Getting There appears on Mondays. Contact Getting There at 445-3698 or
bwear@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 958 words


In 3 years, you'll see the light

Re: Sept. 25 letters "Balance: It makes the world go around" and "Without
guile."

My answer to those readers is simple.

While you might not agree with Glenn Beck (whom you mistakenly liken to the KKK
and whose point you miss entirely) or the idea of presenting both sides in this
political mess we are experiencing (which, by the way, the media is supposed to
do), it is our right to not agree with you.

Furthermore, I feel in the next three years of suffering with this incompetent
president and those who are too liberal in Congress, your life as you know it
will disappear.

Perhaps then you will begin to see what all the other folks have been trying to
wake you up to - only then it may be too late.

Therefore, three years from now, please spare all of us the whining about how
bad things are.

Terri Ackers

Spicewood

In the grip of irrationality

Re: Sept. 22 commentary "Nation keeps spending as if cost doesn't matter."

I appreciated the clarity of John Young's column, which points out the cost of
the fiscally irresponsible Bush-era tax breaks, as we consider how to pay for
long-overdue health care reform.

I admit, I must be terribly naïve not to understand why there is no political
will to rollback these tax breaks to increase revenues. Makes perfect sense to
me.

I fear for the irrationality that seems to have taken hold of our public
discourse, making it imperative that voices like his are heard.

Sandra Gregor

Austin

It works for them

Re: Sept. 22 letter "Reinventing the wheel."

The writer hit the nail on the head when he suggested we analyze health care
systems that are working and implement them.

My wife has an insurance policy in her home country at the cost of $33 per
month. I am on that same policy for free.

She was in the hospital for two weeks in July and had a heart catheter
procedure. The total cost was $24 American dollars. The facilities and the care
were state of the art. I went there in August and had a tooth extracted at the
cost of $1.

Tom Burnam

Round Rock

We care about the poor

Re: Sept. 18 commentary "Energy rate hikes really hard on poor, service
providers."

We at Environmental Defense Fund share Monsignor W. Michael Mulvey's concern
about all adverse impacts on the poor.

Numerous studies have shown that climate change will disproportionately effect
society's disadvantaged.

Mulvey acknowledged that electric rates will increase over the next 10 years
independent of Austin Energy's investment choices. Austin Energy's electricity
generation plan represents an effort to contain these cost increases by
investing wisely.

People don't pay rates; they pay bills, which can be reduced with energy
efficiency. Austin was recently awarded $5.8 million in federal stimulus funds
for low-income weatherization, which will help low-income customers deal with
rising electric rates.

We don't need to delay clean energy; we need to increase our investment in it,
as Austin Energy proposes, to create green jobs, reduce local pollution and
protect God's planet.

Colin Meehan

cmeehan@edf.org

Austin

Public funding for elections

Half of the 12 Democratic Texas representatives are co-sponsors of the Fair
Elections Now Act, which would create publicly funded campaigns for Congress.
Reform groups are organizing constituents to visit the remaining
representatives.

Our motivation is simple: We want our candidates to be free from need and fear
of special interests, and we want our representatives spending their time
focusing on the public's business, not fundraising.

Paul Silver

Common Cause of Texas

Austin

A growing problem

Recent articles and editorials comment on topics like global warming, economic
recession, world hunger and agricultural productivity, pollution and diseases.

Multinational institutions study and discuss these topics and propose solutions.
All are in agreement about one concept: Solve these problems and we can then can
return to growth.

Yet none of them have the political power to institute change.

But it has been our constant drive for constant growth that caused all these
problems. The amounts of arable land, fresh water, energy and natural resources
are all decreasing. Yet we still want growth.

Unless we reduce or at least stabilize the world population (more than 6 billion
of us now, 9 billion in 40 years), all will be in vain. More of us will not use
less of what we will have left.

Politicians, stop talking about growth. We need sustainability.

Andrew Zwarun

Agriculture Department

Texas State University

az10@txstate.edu

San Marcos

Gulf Coast needs help

Re: Sept. 21 article "Researcher's lab is where surf meets shore."

As a resident of both Austin and Port Aransas, I really enjoyed the coverage
given to Tony Amos and the Animal Rehabilitation Keep by Asher Price.

Unfortunately, Amos and the ARK don't get near enough publicity - or donations,
for that matter - for the important work they do on the Texas Gulf Coast.

In Port A, Amos is a treasure. He commands a very loyal contingent of volunteers
who are truly making a difference in how our Gulf Coast shores and marine life
are treated.

They deserve more than just a pat on the back. Check out www.friendsoftheark.org
for information on the ARK and how anybody can help.

Jim Howerton

jchowerton@yahoo.com

Austin

Priority No. 1 (and No. 2?)

It is surprising how much time is wasted in government on issues of no concern.
Issues like climate change and water conservation should be No. 1.

What happens to a person when he or she gets into a position of authority?

He is not standing up and making tough decisions. And then the politicians
wonder why they get bad press.

I am beginning to understand the outbursts at the town hall meetings. They
happen because the government is not doing its job of listening to the people.

Vernon Berger

Austin


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 9, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1055 words


GOP junk mail

Re: Nov. 2 letter "Someone's mistaken."

The reader attempted to smooth John Kelso's feathers by telling him the letter
he received from the Republican Party was accidental.

I fully agree with her. It was an accident because I received the letter also,
and it is always an accident when some Republican sends political stuff to me.

The letter was full of accidents, also. The most outlandish was the party's
appreciation to me for "all the fine work I've done on behalf of Republicans."

I have never done anything on behalf of Republicans. I suspect Kelso and I
aren't the only recipients of this junk mail.

David Beard

Montoro728@austin.rr.com

Austin

Get serious about water

Re: Oct. 27 article "LCRA might turn off the tap."

We need to get serious about water issues. Delaying permits "until drought
conditions ease" smacks of putting a Band-Aid on a jugular wound.

The population will continue to increase, and the amount of annual rainfall we
receive will remain stagnant for the foreseeable future.

Violations for overpumping need to be enforced with punitive measures. Residents
must learn about the need for realistic water conservation techniques that
become a way of life, not a stop-gap.

We have households that consume more than 400,000 gallons of water per month.
The source is irrelevant - surface or ground water.

We are seeing an interruption in the current drought. History shows that it will
return. If you aren't on the bandwagon of serious water conservation techniques,
the time to hop on is now.

Jeri Porter

West Lake Hills

Kinky for senator?

Re: Oct. 24 letter "Distortion of the facts."

Thank you, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, for taking a public stance.

Cornyn voted against the amendment to protect Americans from that most
despicable terrorist group - trial lawyers. Just forget that military
contractors in particular are reaping billions in taxpayer money while some of
their employees are victimized by coworkers or bosses.

It is better for our way of life that some should suffer physical assault and
character defamation to deny trial lawyers (those petty, black-hearted shysters)
more lucre.

Too bad Kinky Friedman isn't running for U.S. senator. Just the fact that he
rescues dogs makes him more qualified than Cornyn to represent Texans in
Washington.

Richard Salinas

Austin

Hello?...Earth to Americans

Apparently, some of our readers can't accept any criticism of President Barack
Obama.

When in our history has the public not been permitted to call to task the
policies of the president? Never. I didn't hear the Bush administration whining.

This country had better wake up. We are on a socialistic path that will be hard
to reverse. Obama is on a perpetual campaign. He is preaching that government
will provide for your every need, paying for it with your neighbor's tax
dollars, not yours.

Who is kidding whom?

You would have to be on another planet not to know what's going on and what this
holds for our future: record deficits, higher taxes and larger government taking
away basic freedoms.

Raleigh R. Skaggs

Bastrop

Cap Metro can't fix poverty

Somewhat "lost" in the debate over Capital Metro's January fare increases is
that nowhere in Capital Metro's mission or purpose is it called upon to be a
social services agency. Its mission is to provide the best public transportation
system it can to its service area.

Capital Metro can't solve the problems of poverty or people on fixed incomes.
There are agencies in Central Texas that do accomplish this good and vital work.

Capital Metro's Board should make decisions regarding fare increases in a just
and equitable way, but it must primarily make business decisions that allow
service to continue in a (business) sustainable way.

Andrew Clements

Secretary, Alliance for Public Transportation

andrewaia@hotmail.com

Austin

Climate change treaty

Many Americans are probably unaware that in December, President Barack Obama is
scheduled to sign the climate change treaty in Copenhagen.

This treaty, if signed, will be a disaster for the United States. It not only
will deplete our limited wealth, it will also create new taxes and regulations
on Americans and allows for parts of our sovereignty to be abdicated to the
United Nations.

This treaty in no way benefits the U.S. The treaty, coupled with Obama's
cap-and-trade program, will increase annual utility bills and add taxes needed
to fund everything.

Why would any American president relinquish parts of our sovereignty and
decision-making ability to the whims of the United Nations?

Larry J. Massung

San Marcos

The nation-building business

It seems that every day I see on TV or in the newspaper that more of our finest
have been killed in Afghanistan. Each time I have to ask myself why and how many
more will die before our government gets out of the nation-building business
there.

We went into Afghanistan to catch and bring to justice Osama bin Laden for his
role in the 9/11 terrorist attacks. We failed, and now the goal has apparently
changed from catching bin Laden to nation building.

When we got there, the Taliban was in power, and it might return when we leave.
If not the Taliban, it will be others not of our choosing in power.

The Soviets tried for 10 years to change that government before they decided to
leave. Why can't we just do the same before we lose more of our finest?

Bob Smith

Salado

Goodness of Austin residents

I dropped my credit card holder at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport when I
went to pick up a friend recently. A few days later, I received in the mail the
holder with all my credit cards, driver's license, ID cards, etc.

There was a hand-written note inside that said "found at the airport." No name
or other information. So, whoever you are, thank you. You made my day and
renewed my faith in the goodness of Austin residents.

Doris Laird

Austin

World-class health system

American health care should at least be as good as what the other developed
countries enjoy. What is coming out of Congress reminds me that a camel is a
horse designed by a committee.

Lawmakers are not even trying to develop a world-class health system. They are
just trying to avoid offending the insurance and pharmaceutical industries.

It is time for our leadership to take a stand on the moral high ground. Our
elected officials need to realize the voters are watching.

Mac and Joyce Payne

mac@macandjoyce.org

Bastrop

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1032 words


BAE and McCaul

In light of the U.S. Government Accountability Office's decision to uphold a key
aspect of BAE Systems' protest of the family of medium tactical vehicle
contract, I want to thank our community for the support we have received over
the last 17 years. While it's too early to speculate what this decision means
for our business, we look forward to working with the Army to ensure the
continued production of FMTVs .

On behalf of the more than 3,000 employees at our Sealy plant, I offer my
sincere thanks to the Sealy FMTV Task Force, the Greater Houston Partnership and
the hundreds of individuals who have rallied on our behalf. We also appreciate
the vigorous activity by elected officials across Texas.

Specifically, I wanted to thank Sealy's U.S. congressional representative,
Michael McCaul, R-Austin, for his ongoing and steadfast support. McCaul has
worked with us tirelessly and always maintained an open-door policy with him and
his staff.

Dennis Morris

President, Global Tactical Systems

BAE Systems

Houston

Climategate

Re: Dec. 11 article "E-mails embolden climate skeptics."

In light of the e-mails hacked from scientists regarding climate change, I am
dismayed to see Sarah Palin and some members of the GOP seize this opportunity
to advance their own political agenda.

I am a Republican, and the issue of global warming is not a party issue. The
science is real, and the vast majority of scientists worldwide agree.

Even if Palin doesn't understand global warming, she should understand that by
supporting the legislation to fight global warming she would be supporting a
cleaner and more energy independent America.

I see no problem at all with an America full of windmills and solar panels and
hundreds of billions of dollars staying in America instead of going to hostile
oil-producing countries.

My hope is all politicians will do what is best for America and not their
political contributors.

Ryan Smith

ryansmithdc@yahoo.com

Austin

Food stamp workers

Re: Dec. 10 editorial "Weary state workers to the rescue."

I applaud Health and Human Services Executive Director Tom Suehs' effort in
making sure that Texans who need state assistance wouldn't go hungry.

I particularly want to commend the 7,700 food stamp workers who having been
toiling an average of 13 hours in overtime to help the state catch up in
enrolling and renewing those in need of help. The leadership provided by the
commissioner and the sacrifice being made by the state workers provide one of
the brightest, albeit rare, good news spots amid the usual hoard of negative
publicity on the usual delivery problems and failures that the media report.

Notwithstanding the privatization turmoil, we must focus on the spirit, the
determination and the raison d'état for the agency, Suehs and the these
honorable workers who have chosen this inglorious yet noble path to serve.

Jerry Friedman

Executive director, American Public Human Services Association

jfriedman@aphsa.org

Washington, D.C.

Central Health

Re: Dec. 11 article "Abortion contracts approved."

I am so disheartened by Central Health's decision to continue using our property
taxes to pay for abortions. The board clearly went against the desires of the
majority of the people it is supposed to represent in health matters.

The majority of not only Austin but the entire U.S. is against using tax money
to fund abortions. It's a sad day when our government chooses to ignore us and
implement its own desires and use our money to fund something we find morally
repugnant. And it's a very sad day when ending a life is considered health care.

Farrar Sanchez

farrarsanchez@gmail.com

Round Rock

How much?

With the news that Mack Brown was given a pay boost to $5 million a year, one
has to ask: How much is enough?

Patrick Cosgrove

pcos1903@yahoo.com

Austin

Wall Street sold us out

For years, Wall Street has been advising large corporations to move their
production to Asia. Wall Street raised their stock price temporarily, some
executives got raises and many American taxpayers lost their jobs.

Now the customer base has shrunk because Wall Street wanted to make a short-term
gain. U.S. corporations are finally discovering that outsourcing to other
countries is not good for them, their customers or their country.

The people who made profits for giving this bad advice don't have to work
anymore. They should be tried for treason, insider trading and wrecking the
American economy and job market. America no longer has a leading GDP outside of
services.

Bryan Snider

Austin

Placing blame

Judging from his speeches this year, President Barack Obama is deeply invested
in blaming President George W. Bush for every difficult problem faced by the
administration.

Here's a news flash, Mr. President: Blaming your predecessor doesn't do anything
to fix the problem, and it doesn't get you off the hook. If you didn't want a
tough job, you shouldn't have asked for this one.

You should take a lesson from President John F. Kennedy, who said, "Let us not
seek to fix the blame for the past. Let us accept our own responsibility for the
future."

Dan Mayer

Austin

Troops to Afghanistan

What is the use of sending troops to Afghanistan when the problem is in
Pakistan? The Taliban will hibernate in Pakistan until American troops are in
Afghanistan then resurge after the troops withdraw.

American aid to Pakistan is used to finance the Taliban. Protection money is
paid to the Taliban for all development projects like road building or home
construction. America is financing the Taliban against its own troops.

We should stop all aid to Pakistan; hardly any amount reaches the common man.
The correct solution of the terrorist problem is to neutralise Pakistan and not
to waste resources in Afghanistan.

Bhagwan Shukla

Cedar Park

Go ahead: Tell them

The trillions of dollars the government owes is not its debt. It is ours. It is
our money they are burning to the tune of billions of dollars daily just to
cover the interest on what they've already borrowed in our names.

Tell Congress and the president that only a fool seeks solutions by adding to
the problem. Tell them no new programs, stop spending and pay down the debt.
Tell them to wise up or pack up.

William C. McCoy

wcvmccoy@suddenlink.net

Leander

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

UT professors' teams to explore crucial questions about energy

BYLINE: Mark Lisheron American-Statesman staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 763 words


Two teams of scientists from the University of Texas have been asked by the U.S.
Department of Energy to set out on the energy frontier - one team in search of a
new way to collect solar energy, the other to contend with the byproducts of
America's energy use.

Professors Paul Barbara and Gary Pope have been given $30.5 million in grants as
part of a $777 million national energy research effort that its developers have
likened to the creation of the atomic bomb and the mission to put a man on the
moon. Their projects were two of 46 that the Energy Department's Office of Basic
Energy Sciences chose from among 260 proposals.

These energy frontier research centers, as the Energy Department calls them,
have been charged with providing the research foundation for a
multibillion-dollar government drive to answer some of the biggest questions of
national energy use and its consequences.

The Office of Basic Energy Sciences is financing 30 of the projects, including
Pope's, at $100 million a year for the next five years. Sixteen other projects,
including Barbara's, are getting $277 million over five years as part of
President Barack Obama's stimulus package.

"Considering the urgency of the energy problem, the magnitude of the needed
scientific breakthroughs and the historic rate of scientific discovery, current
efforts will likely be too little, too late," the advisory committee that
developed the guidelines for the grant proposals wrote in its report. "A new
national energy research program is essential and must be initiated with the
intensity and commitment of the Manhattan Project and sustained until this
problem is solved."

Harriet Kung, associate director of science for the Basic Energy Sciences Office
in Washington, said the program was launched "to address the most fundamental
knowledge gaps in the area of energy."

"Each of the proposals from the University of Texas attempts to get at one of
those questions in a unique way. There was a very rigorous peer review process
in selecting these projects," Kung said.

Barbara's and Pope's teams are working with Sandia National Laboratories in New
Mexico, which, since 1949, has conducted research into nuclear power and
weaponry, chemical and biological warfare and other matters of national
security.

Barbara's $15 million grant will pay for a team of about 25 professors, graduate
students and two Sandia researchers to study materials that scientists think
have the potential to revolutionize the capture and storage of solar energy.

Barbara, a chemistry professor and director of the Center for Nano and Molecular
Science and Technology at UT, said researchers are in the early stages of
looking at a carbon-based plastic that holds the potential to capture light
energy many times more efficiently and cheaply than the silicates used in making
today's solar cells.

Barbara said they're also trying to tackle other practical problems, such as
trying to teach narrow-focus scientists how to communicate with big-picture
engineers. The goal is to create more efficient ways of applying scientific
breakthroughs to real-world products and problems, he said.

"I think we will be judged by how much we have changed the foundation of
science," Barbara said. "I think this project gives us a shared sense of
purpose. Academic science should have a big societal impact."

The team of 25 professors and students assembled under Pope, a professor of
petroleum and geosystems engineering, will study ways to contain greenhouse
gases.

The $15.5 million grant will be spent in four stages to assess the overall
effect of returning carbon dioxide produced by power plants to the underground
spaces where oil, gas and coal have been extracted, said Laurence Costin, a
member of the team and a division manager at Sandia in Albuquerque, N.M.

An expensive process exists for capturing carbon dioxide and converting it into
a lighter-than-water fluid, and Pope's team hopes to discover what effect this
fluid would have on the environment if it's stored underground, Costin said.

"To this point, there has been very great difficulty in modeling what happens
when you return the product of burning fossil fuels to the ground," Costin said.

Like the Barbara team, Pope's researchers are responsible for leaving a trail
for a new generation of researchers, Costin said.

"We've recognized for 10 to 15 years the need to understand carbon dioxide's
relationship with climate change," Costin said. Sandia "concentrates on issues
of national security. We consider energy and climate change to be two of them."

mlisheron@statesman.com; 445-3663

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 29, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Barton Springs truth? It's not really 68 degrees

BYLINE: Pamela LeBlanc AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 976 words


Quick, Austin: What's the temperature of the water at Barton Springs Pool?

It's 68 degrees year-round, right?

That number has long been hammered into our heads. T-shirts proclaim it, the
city's Web page touts it and Wikipedia boasted it for years.

But the pool's not 68 degrees, and rarely has it been. So it's time to clear up
the misconception.

"It's been my little personal crusade to try to get 68 degrees out of the
public's mind, but it constantly comes up," says city hydrogeologist David
Johns, who studies groundwater. He has worked on the pool master plan as well as
planned repairs.

Lately, the pool's temperature at its coldest point, near the spring's source,
has hovered near 71 degrees. Closer to the surface and in shallower parts of the
pool, it's even warmer.

The temperature varies slightly, depending on time of year and discharge volume.
Mostly, it depends on what season rains fall.

Barton Springs is fed by a karst aquifer, and rain that falls in its recharge
zone moves rapidly to the springs. When it rains during the winter, water
entering the aquifer is already chilly - about 50 or 55 degrees - making the
water that emerges from the springs cooler. If rain falls and creeks flow in the
summer, the water soaks in at a much warmer temperature, and the spring's flow
is warmer.

During a drought, such as the current one,the water doesn't turn over as rapidly
in the pool and the sun has more time to warm it. Normal flow is about 53 cubic
feet per second; now, it's 15 cubic feet per second.

So how did that 68-degree myth get started?

"There probably was one data point in the 1960s when the water temperature
actually was 68," Johns said. It wasn't steady, though, and it wasn't
year-round. He suspects someone at the city settled on 68 for nothing other than
marketing reasons. "Sixty-eight sounded a whole lot cooler than 70."

The city has been collecting data at the pool since 1978, and sensors in the
main springs in a cave below the diving pit have automatically taken a
temperature reading every 15 minutes since 2003. Other than a drop of a few
tenths of a degree last spring, the water has been coming out at a near constant
70.9 degrees for more than a year.

The pool does occasionally get colder. During the first half of 2007, a wet
year, the temperature at the main springs stayed between 67 and 69 degrees. It
gets warmer, too. In the summer of 2004, water flowed out of the springs at 72.1
degrees.

Climate change has had an effect, Johns said. The average water temperature has
gradually warmed by a little more than a tenth of a degree since statistics were
first kept. "That is related to an increase of over a degree in the average air
temperature," Johns said. The temperature hasn't adversely affected the
endangered salamanders that live at the spring's source, where the water is
coolest.

Several times a month, Johns heads to the springs to sample the water manually.
Tuesday, he donned a straw hat and checked temperatures around the pool with a
multiprobe.

At the fault line next to the diving well, near the main spring, the temperature
read 71.2 degrees. But at the surface by the downstream dam, it was 73.4
degrees. It was even warmer at the shallow end of the pool, where it measured
76.3 degrees at the skimmer drain inlet.

A few years ago, Johns and others petitioned Wikipedia to change the Barton
Springs Pool entry, which used to say it was a constant 68 degrees. The online
encyclopedia did, and the entry now says the pool's "temperature maintains a
narrow range from about 68 F in the winter to about 71.6 F in the summer."

Better, but not perfect.

"It gets to be one of those pet peeves. I'm still a scientist at heart, so I'm
like, well, you know, it's really not 68 degrees," Johns says.

Some regular Barton Springs swimmers were surprised to hear they weren't
swimming in 68-degree water. Others say they suspected it was warmer all along.

Sean Garretson has been swimming in Barton Springs to prepare for the Alcatraz
Invitational, a 1.2-mile open-water swim from Alcatraz Island to San Francisco,
where the water averages between 55 and 58 degrees, in September. "You've
totally bummed me out," he said after learning the water at Barton Springs
wasn't actually 68 degrees. "I better start taking ice baths."

It's all about what you're used to, says pool regular Robert Alford. "I am never
cold at Barton Springs, but that's after swimming in Deep Eddy (in the winter).
When it's in the low 60s there, you get in Barton Springs and it feels nice and
warm." Temperatures at Deep Eddy, according to the city's Web site, vary from 68
to 72 degrees, but they have been warmer, too.

Two years ago, Lynne Smith swam the English Channel, where temperatures range
from 57 to 64 during the summer. "Barton Springs is warmer?" she said. "It feels
just as cold at 5 a.m. as it always has. And I still make a beeline for the
solar-heated showers!"

Regardless, jumping in Barton Springs takes the edge off one of Austin's
steamiest summers on record.

"It's still a cool drink of water on a hot day," Johns said.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

Water temperatures at Barton Springs Pool
Temperatures at Barton Springs Pool vary, but they're rarely 68 degrees.
They've hovered at about 70.9 degrees coming out of the springs for more than a
 year. On Tuesday, hydrogeologist David Johns took these readings:
Dam
73.4 degrees F
(surface)
72.5 degrees F
(12 feet down)
72.7 degrees F
(surface)
72.3 degrees F
(five feet down)
Diving board
71.2 degrees F
(surface)
Shallow end of the pool
73.8 degrees F
(2 feet down)
76.3 degrees F
(1 foot down)
75.4 degrees F
(1 foot down)
Source: David Johns, City of Austin hydrogeologist


Read the U.S. Geological Survey's temperature statistics for Barton Springs at
http://waterdata.usgs.gov/tx/nwis/dv?cb_00010=on&format=gif_default&begin_date=
2008-08-18&end_date=2009-08-18&site_no=08155500&referred_module=sw.



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1158 words


Nothing always means something

There's some excellent advice in the Chicago Tribune editorial (Dec. 24, "Giving
and forgiving"), especially the part about not believing your wife/girlfriend
when "nothing" is her answer when you ask what she wants for a gift.

A few years ago, I honored my wife's instructions to not get her anything for
her birthday - by not getting her anything for her birthday. I've yet to live
that blunder down.

Men, don't make the same mistake. She wants something. Trust me.

Bill Schiffmann

Lago Vista

Tax-funded abortions

Those who oppose abortions funded by tax dollars should consider the tremendous
savings this affords over the long haul. An abortion eliminates all future tax
dollar funding of food, clothing, medical care, education and other public
spending related to low- or no-income recipients. To me, this is money well
spent.  Abortion costs are a pittance compared with the long-term spending that
might have been required.

Richard Miller

Wimberley

In response

Re: Dec. 18 letter "Abortion issues."

In the first paragraph, one reader stated the issue of low-income women's rights
and exercising self-management. I would say the management of anyone's
decisions, rich or poor, concerning pregnancy should be made long before a baby
is conceived.

She also makes a very bold statement concerning the responsibility, investment,
consciousness and the authority of a woman exceeding that of the oncoming child.
Since when did the "oncoming baby" have a desire to be placed in the womb? And
why shouldn't this little one, if not desired, be given up for adoption?

Joyce Laseter

Georgetown

Take my tax dollars for abortions

Re: Dec. 19 letter "Taxpayer-funded abortions."

One reader's wise and brave letter reflected my convictions as well as those of
untold numbers of men and women. Laws or expense or danger will never stop
abortion. The need can be overwhelming, many lives may be involved.

In the era when all abortions were illegal, a young diabetic woman I knew
carried her baby almost to term, then, tragically, they both died. I have heard
women say, "I will kill myself before having another baby."   And we knew one
who did.

I wish for the enlightened time when abortions are available, affordable and
safe - when a woman addicted to crack is not forced to bear an addicted baby who
most assuredly faces a bleak and, possibly, short life.

Never forget: An unwanted pregnancy produces an unwanted child. And what is more
pathetic?

Betty X. Davis

Austin

Flawed argument

Re: Dec. 19 letter "Taxpayer-funded abortions."

The argument used by the reader comparing breast implants, collagen injections,
liposuction, etc., with abortion is flawed. I would hardly call abortion a
cosmetic, elective procedure.

If a patient has a droopy lid that interferes with vision, that differs from a
"more attractive" look of cosmetic lid procedures. One is covered by insurance;
the other is not. Compare apples to apples.

Dr. Jim Hannigan

Austin

Board did the right thing

The Central Health board did the right thing by authorizing full health care for
all the women in the district. Full health care means what it says: Whatever a
woman and her physician decide is the best course of treatment for any women's
medical problem, then that is what the health district will pay for, including
an abortion if the doctor thinks that's in the best interest of that woman's
health.

I am a Roman Catholic and I do not think abortion is the right thing to do. In
fact, my church considers it murder, but neither I nor my church has the right
to impose our beliefs on anyone's health procedures if they believe that
abortion is the best course of action when a woman's health is in jeopardy.

Lino Gutierrez Martinez Sr.

linomartinez@msn.com

Austin

Disagree with editorial

Re: Dec. 14 editorial "Beliefs aside, abortion is legal."

I disagree with the reasoning behind the editorial. Travis County is not
required to provide funding for abortion, and board members did not operate with
their "beliefs aside."

The Hyde Amendment mandates that Medicaid will not fund abortions except in
cases where the pregnancy endangers the mother's health. Even by the very lowest
estimates, well over half of abortions are not performed for medically necessary
reasons.

Further, Texas law does not require broad public funding of abortion. The Texas
Supreme Court ruled that the state is not constitutionally obligated to use
Medicaid to fund abortions necessary for health reasons. No federal or state law
implicates Travis County to provide funding for abortions.

Members voted not based on a regulation, but on their beliefs.

Avery Lill

Austin

Climate change

The fact that there have always been periods of climate change on our planet is
generally well-accepted.

We may be experiencing another one, although this time there is considerable
debate about whether these changes are man-made or not. But one thing is
certain: There has never before been a period when the Earth's population
reached almost 7 billion people engaged in building, destroying, consuming,
polluting and reproducing on such an unprecedented scale.

How can that possibly be insignificant?

Georgia Corin

Austin

Possibilities seem endless

Re: Dec. 18 Political Notes item "Strayhorn eyes comptroller bid."

I had to chuckle when I read that Carole Keeton Rylander Strayhorn (did I leave
one out?) is interested in running on the Democratic ticket for comptroller.
What does she want to be when she grows up, and which political party does she
want to be affiliated with?

Seems to me she wakes up in the morning and, depending on how the wind is
blowing, decides that she wants to run for railroad commissioner, mayor,
governor or comptroller (did I leave one out?) as a Republican, Democratic or
independent.

Bill Dyess

Georgetown

Circus elephants

Re: Dec. 19 article "From grave, whistle-blower ignites circus elephant debate."

Sammy Haddock's pictures are clearly worth a thousand cruel words, showing what
Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey doesn't want anyone to know - that they beat
their elephants into submission.

How can Ringling possibly defend their actions when pictures show baby elephants
being separated from their mothers and tied up with ropes held by more than one
handler, forcing the elephants to lie down and do other tricks.

Ringling's circus is the cruelest show on Earth, and it's the last place parents
should take their children.

Timothy Verret

Austin

Nebraska deal unconstitutional?

It seems to me that the deal to get Sen. Ben Nelson of Nebraska's vote to end
debate on the health bill might be unconstitutional.

The deal would require the federal government to pay 100 percent of his state's
Medicaid expenses at the exclusion of the other 49 states.

According to Article I, Section 9, line 6 of the U.S. Constitution, "No
preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports
of one state over those of another ""

Looks like a dumb deal by somebody.

Marvin H. Lehr

mlehr001@austin.rr.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Taste at brewery, but don't take it with you

BYLINE: PATRICK BEACH AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1566 words


Ever wondered why you can't go to the store and buy a six-pack of the North by
Northwest Restaurant and Brewery's beer? How about one more: Ever wondered why,
in a state of 24 million that ranks second-thirstiest in terms of beer
consumption, Texas has about, like what, eight craft breweries? Partly thanks
to, say many in the business, the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission code,
which keeps these small brewers from selling you a six-pack to go at the
brewery.

Blame the code or blame beer distributors and their lobbyists, who wield a
considerable amount of political power when it comes to TABC code changes, some
small brewers say.

Bills in this session of the Texas Legislature might actually allow you to pick
up some bottles of Saint Arnold Elissa when you tour Brock Wagner's Saint Arnold
brewery in Houston. The bills have been introduced in different forms by state
Reps. Lon Burnam, D-Fort Worth , and Jessica Farrar, D-Houston .

Six years ago, similar legislation passed to let Texas wineries sell their
bottles where the wine is made. That happened largely because the wineries got
organized and argued that it would be good for Texas tourism. Brewers have just
made a unified go of it under the name Friends of Texas Microbreweries.

Is there a glimmer of hope this time for the brewers, who might ask why there
should be different rules for wine and beer? Former Sunset Advisory Commissioner
Howard Wolf, who is a proponent of this and other, more far-reaching changes to
TABC regulations, says there's not a chance, even for this single-change bill.

"The distributors are defending a castle, a monetary castle, and they know that
if they allow any breach anywhere in the wall, they might lose control of it,"
Wolf said.

Aside from the growler (half-gallon jug) you can get filled and take home from a
brew pub like NXNW, pretty much the only places selling beer to go are the
liquor, grocery, convenience and other stores where the beer is stocked by the
distributors.

Another future threat to distributors might be direct online sales, if the craft
brewers ever pushed for that.

Burnham said of his legislation last week: "Most of the micros are politically
naive " I can file this bill. It's not going to go anywhere until the brewers
can go to multiple members and be a political force because the big guys are a
political force, and they have been for years."

If you care about beer, you should care about this issue, and it's worth getting
our hands dirty in a little history to find out how we got here. One of the main
aims of the TABC code as it was written was to thwart any latter-day Al Capones
by establishing firewalls between the beer importer or brewery, wholesaler or
distributor and retailer. The state's wish was also to promote post-Prohibition
temperance, and God forbid Texas should ever be perceived as being in the
business of promoting consumption. (Let us not forget that hatchet-brandishing
Prohibitionist Carrie Nation, while born in Kentucky, later called Brazoria
County home.) And Texas is still a messy legal hodgepodge of wet, dry, semi-dry
and moderately damp counties.

Beer was seen as a drink of moderation, so nothing over 5 percent alcohol by
volume could be called beer; it had to be ale or malt liquor or something else.
This can make for something of a labeling headache when a brewer within Texas or
from out of state wants to introduce a new beer into the market with a slightly
higher kick.

Brewers also talk about other aspects of an antiquated code, such as steep
licensing fees and other impediments to their business.

Over time, the wholesalers' and distributors' muscle grew. Beer distribution in
Texas now generates some $1.4 billion in the state economy. And, quite
understandably, their lobbyists made a whole lot of good friends at the Capitol.

I don't mean to rag on distributors, nor do brewers have any particular beef
with them - they need distributors to move their beer in stores, after all. I'm
friendly with a number of people who work for distributors and these folks work
very hard. Nor should you think I'm singling out the TABC for being a bunch of
meddlesome bureaucrats, because they're not. They're simply enforcing the code
as it's written by the Legislature - with, the little guys say, a whole lot of
input from the beer distributors' lobby.

But over time, quite understandably, the distributors grew rather protective of
their lucrative middleman role.

"You've got a case of one industry getting so powerful that they do an
incredible job of getting laws written to protect them," said Wagner of Saint
Arnold. "I don't know of another industry that has so many anti-competitive
clauses in it. There is no question that only one point of view is getting heard
and that is showing up in the one-sided laws that are being written. That is the
frustration."

That's also why legislation similar to what's introduced in this session has
gone approximately nowhere in the past.

The brewers note, for example, that if you tour Saint Arnold and take home a
six-pack of something you've maybe never had before, the distributors would be
cut out of the supply chain on that single six-pack. Tours are not an everyday
thing for most people. The next buy for you might well be that same brew at the
store, supplied by a distributor.

In this political climate it makes perfect sense that Texas should well lag
behind the rest of the country in welcoming the craft and microbrewery
renaissance of the last 25 years or so. Know how many commercial breweries there
are in Colorado, a state of about 4.3 million? A hundred. Not exactly. It's a
little apples and oranges counting micros and/or craft beer breweries, but,
again, Texas has about eight.

And, inside and outside Colorado, a lot of these breweries started as brew pubs.
To name just three: Dogfish Head, Bear Republic and Oskar Blues, from Delaware,
California and Colorado, respectively. And today, right here in River City, you
can go out and buy Dog Fish Head 60, Racer 5 or Dale's Pale. But if you want to
grab a six of what Brian Peters is brewing at Uncle Billy's these days? Sorry,
that can't happen. "I don't know whose fault it is for these quirks existing,
but it is hampering Texas breweries," said Scott Metzger of San Antonio's
Freetail Brewing Co. "Texas breweries are at an automatic competitive
disadvantage with breweries in other states. Maybe the politicians just hate
breweries. Maybe they don't want to see Texas breweries succeed."

"They're putting us on an unlevel playing field with those people who can have a
retail establishment locally and sell their product to other locations," said
NXNW's owner, Davis Tucker.

Metzger says if the law were changed to allow him to sell in stores, he'd add a
bottling operation and another 50 jobs tomorrow. We're talking about more
variety and choice for the consumer, more jobs, more tax revenue for the state.

And let's not forget that craft and micros are the only growing segment of the
beer industry these days. Sales overall, dominated by the behemoths such as
Anheuser-Busch and MillerCoors, have been more or less flat for a while.

So who wins by maintaining the status quo?

"That's a good question," said Jim Houchins of Artisanal Imports and a former
distributor himself. "I guess the big distributors would be the primary winners.
Most of them are not all that keen on the smaller breweries anyway. Keeping them
out doesn't hurt them."

But who knows? Maybe the Legislature can make this one little change to put
small brewers on the same playing field as small wineries. If you have an
opinion, contact your state representative. A compromise measure that would
allow breweries to sell admission to tours, and for admission to include a beer
sale, had a hearing before the House Committee on Licensing and Administrative
Procedures last week, and Rick Donley, president of the Beer Alliance of Texas,
testified in its favor.

"We had worked real hard with Rep. Farrar to craft some kind of legislation that
would allow (brewers) to do some of the things they want to do without
disrupting the three-tier system," Donely said. "You're not going to walk up and
buy beer without taking the tour."

As for some brewers' gripe that distributors have disproportionate pull at the
statehouse, Donley said: "I wish we had a tenth of the influence they think we
have. The fact is the three-tier system has served the state well for many
decades."

Lights, camera, Dogfish Head.

Sam Calagione, the head of everybody's favorite brewery in Delaware, returns to
the Alamo Lake Creek for what's become an annual event: The Dogfish Head
Off-Centered Film Festival at 8 p.m. April 3 and 4. Friday night will have
Calagione guiding the crowd through 13 (!) samples, including the mind-stealing
120 and a couple that you can only get in this market - for now - when Calagione
brings them. Cheese pairings from Grape Vine Market. Tickets are $45 Friday, $10
Saturday, swag included, and there's more at drafthouse.com/lakecreek. Friday
will be drinking, talking and eating; the short film screenings with be
Saturday.

The event comes not long after a fantastic beer dinner with Allagash founder Rob
Tod. I'm still dreaming about those green chile and crab corn fritters.

Last year's fest was the subject of my inaugural column, meaning I've been
drinking on the job for a year now and haven't been fired yet. Cheers!

pbeach@statesman.com; 445-3603

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 18, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Speed up shift to sun and wind, power utility says

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 808 words


Austin should add more renewable energy faster by replacing coal with wind and
solar power, according to a much-anticipated report from the city's electric
utility.

Austin Energy planners say the city should triple its supply of solar and wind
energy by 2020 - a more aggressive target than the city's already ambitious
Climate Protection Plan , a nationally noted effort championed by former Mayor
Will Wynn. Austin Energy also recommends that the city invest more heavily in
energy conservation measures.

If its recommendations are adopted, the utility expects bills to increase 2
percent a year. By 2020, the average Austin home would see $21 a month added to
the current monthly electric bill of $93.35 , according to a 43-page memorandum
delivered Monday to the City Council .

"I don't know of another city with a more aggressive goal" than what's being
proposed, said Roger Duncan , the general manager of Austin Energy.

The utility had considered numerous versions of the plan. Less costly options
left Austin reliant on greenhouse-gas emitting fuels, which contribute to global
warming and could soon be taxed by the federal government, Duncan said.

Duncan declined to speculate on how specific customers will respond to the plan
- many large companies have complained that Austin's renewable energy goals will
cost them millions - but he said Austin Energy had incorporated feedback from
the community.

"While it most assuredly will not please every point of view, (the recommended
plan) has certainly benefited from the committed engagement of hundreds of
Austin residents and stakeholders," the Austin Energy memo said.

The new recommendations follow more than a year of community meetings and will
be debated over the next two months before the City Council decides whether to
adopt them.

"I am very encouraged by the new Austin Energy recommendation," Mayor Lee
Leffingwell said.

"We have a clear mandate from our community to add wind and solar," Council
Member Mike Martinez said, "but we have to find other fuel sources that are as
reliable as coal in meeting our base load demand." He cited "waste heat capture"
as a possibility. Capture uses the energy released when certain manufacturing
byproducts are burned.

Council Member Chris Riley said he was pleased with Austin Energy's plan to
scale back electrical production at the Fayette Power Plant, which burns coal.
It is now one of Austin's cheapest energy sources and provides 32 percent of
Austin's electricity. It also emits about 70 percent of Austin Energy's
greenhouse gases.

By 2020 , the plan would cut back production at the Fayette plant by a third.

"We intend to ramp down the plant's production as a first step toward closing it
or selling off our share," Duncan said.

The city's Climate Protection Plan calls for increasing by 2020 the portion of
renewable energy the city uses to 30 percent from its current 12 percent.

Duncan is recommending the city raise that goal to at least 35 percent . He said
Austin Energy arrived at that target by calculating how much the city could save
through more efficient use of electricity, how much renewable energy will be
available to Austin in the future and what Austin would need to do to meet
anticipated federal limits on carbon emissions.

The memo also recommends Austin maintain ownership in the South Texas Project
nuclear plant and consider buying nuclear power from private providers. But the
recommendations focus on wind and solar. Austin would double its wind portfolio
under Duncan's proposal to more than 1,000 megawatts. It would also double its
goal of 100 megawatts of solar by 2020.

But Duncan is also recommending that the city come up with a long-term plan to
"harvest all rooftop solar energy potential in our city," one that takes into
account the cost of widespread solar installation, as well as technical
challenges and the potential to create jobs.

Duncan said a recent study funded by the federal Department of Energy showed
that Austin could generate between 3,000 and 4,000 megawatts of solar power if
it used available rooftop and ground sites.

"We couldn't run the city tonight," because there is no way to store large
amounts of power for later use, "but this afternoon we could run the whole city
on solar," Duncan said.

"That's probably beyond 20 years away," he said, "but with that amount of power
available, even if it takes 40 years, it's something we need to start pursuing."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

Austin Energy
fuel mix
 As of Monday:
 Coal: 32 percent
 Nuclear: 25 percent
 Open market: 15 percent
 Wind: 12 percent
 Natural gas: 11 percent
 Purchase-power agreements: 4 percent
 Miscellaneous: 1 percent
 Solar: negligible
 New proposal
for 2020
 Wind: 26 percent
 Coal: 23 percent
 Nuclear: 22 percent
 Natural gas: 10 percent
 Open market: 9 percent
 Wood waste: 7 percent
 Solar: 3 percent
 Source: Austin Energy



LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Tea parties roll on, but destination is unclear

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 836 words


WACO - A showy caravan called the Tea Party Express rolled into Texas this week,
pausing Thursday for a boisterous musical rally in a downtown park where Mae
Tiller of Austin milled among sign-holding crowd members both upset at Democrats
in Washington and unresolved about what should happen down the road.

Tiller, 61, said she decided to join others venting their discontent after
hearing that customers of Austin-based Whole Foods Market Inc. were boycotting
the chain because its CEO called for alternatives to Democratic-steered
proposals for universal health coverage.

Tiller said: "I'll tell you what, I'm not insured. But I don't want somebody
else telling me who to choose (for medical care), what doctors I can see."

Another tea party rally is scheduled for today at the Capitol, the latest of
many held nationally since April.

Though organizers express pride in raising doubts sure to affect Congress,
there's also uncertainty about where the run of tea-party events will lead - or
whether they'll fade in significance as surely as seasons change.

For her part, Tiller said, "I don't really know where it's going to go."

Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael Williams, who got an ovation at the rally,
said afterward that energy stirred by the tea parties needs to be channeled into
defeating or passing specific legislation - a challenge, he said, because
Republicans are in the minority in Congress.

Williams, a U.S. Senate hopeful, said that by speaking out, tea-party
participants already have slowed action on climate change and health care
legislation.

Speakers and costumed singers at the rally stressed the health care debate;
several said any plan should include federal tort reform, permission for
customers to buy insurance across state lines and more room for health savings
accounts.

Bert Lindsey, 74, of Richland Chambers Lake near Corsicana, said he'll vote for
Republicans or independents next year: "What's the other choice? The tea party
is waiting for anybody to stick their head up for this country."

National organizers said the Waco stop drew their biggest crowd to date -
estimates range from 1,500 to 3,000 people - since a Sacramento kickoff rally
Aug. 28.

Sal Russo , chief strategist for the Our Country Deserves Better PAC , the
conservative group managing the caravan, said the tea party phenomenon could
wither unless it segues into electing responsive leaders. "You can't just
protest," Russo said. "You have to have an action item. " Good people somehow
think that if you just protest, the politicians will change. The reality is, you
have to change the politicians."

Russo likened tea party activity to excitement in the 1990s about independent
presidential aspirant Ross Perot.

Russell Verney of Dallas, a senior adviser to Perot in 1992 and his campaign
manager in 1996, agreed there are similarities now to the hubbub that built
around Perot. "The public sentiment toward government is 1992 on steroids,"
Verney said, much of it tied to unease about the economy and the national debt.
"What they're lacking is a credible leader and the organization to make them a
coherent force."

Though no single leader has surfaced, planners of today's Stand Up for Texas
rally at the Capitol, expected to draw activists from around the state, are
taking a different tack.

They're publicizing a new Web site titled Contract From America. Visitors to the
site will be encouraged to pitch in ideas and vote on ideas submitted by others.
After several months, the ideas will be winnowed by about 20 tea party leaders
from around the country before online balloting finalizes the contract to spell
out up to a dozen agreed-upon "ideas of the people," said an instigator, Houston
lawyer Ryan Hecker . The site, www.contractfromamerica.com, was up by Friday.

Felicia Cravens of the Houston Tea Party Society said she senses a divide among
activists over whether the movement should fold into the Republican Party or
not. Cravens, a part-time drama teacher who said she's worked as a GOP precinct
chair, said: "I want the Republicans (in Congress) as worried as the Democrats
about their jobs because both of them got us into this."

The advantage for participants who steer clear of partisan commitments, Cravens
said, is "no one can say they've bought us."

Among the speakers in Waco, Deborah Johns urged the crowd to "continue to meet
like this every month."

Toby Marie Walker , president of the Waco Tea Party group, chuckled at Johns'
suggestion. Walker noted that the rally was the first public show hosted by the
group, in contrast to events such as targeted protests, training opportunities
and a picnic.

Walker said: "I look at our tea party as a springboard to activism in other
venues, whether you choose a political party, activist group, whatever it is."

wgselby@statesman.com; 445-3644

Stand Up for Texas rally
 When: 1 to 4 p.m. today
 Where: South side of Texas Capitol
 Keynote speaker: Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, known as Joe the Plumber
 Parking: Free at One Texas Center garage, 505 Barton Springs Road


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

City solar rebates are likely to drop

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 888 words


As sunlight streamed through the stained-glass window at the front of St. Luke
United Methodist Church, Marianne Dorman spoke Friday, with a hint of
disappointment, about how close the church has come to harnessing that resource.

Church leaders have spent months planning how to put solar panels on their
1950s-era Clarksville building in Central Austin. They want to be
environmentally conscientious, said Dorman, the parishioner coordinating the
project, but also found that it makes financial sense.

The church was hoping to take advantage of an Austin Energy rebate program,
among the state's most generous, that typically covers about two-thirds of the
cost of solar installations and is intended to kick-start the industry locally.

But Austin Energy could be a victim of its own success. The solar-rebate program
has received so many applications, officials said this week, that if it accepts
them all, it will deplete its entire $4 million budget for the 2009-10 fiscal
year. Next week, the utility might scale back how much is offered to each
applicant, and that reduction could be applied retroactively to proposals
submitted since Sept. 1.

Solar advocates say that the burgeoning local solar industry will rely on Austin
Energy subsidies for years, and they accuse the utility of short-circuiting
Austin's long-term vision - as well as projects such as St. Luke's.

"Last week, we got finished and got a contract signed" with a contractor for the
$96,000 project, Dorman said. "But if they make the change we've been told
about, we will not be able to do our project."

Austin Energy officials said they are listening to those concerns.

But Karl Rabago, a vice president of Austin Energy, said an unpopular change is
inevitable. The program was created in 2004 to spur the market, not carry it,
and was intended to gradually be phased out as solar power gained popularity and
dropped in price.

"That's exactly what we're seeing," Rabago said. "And with this type of program,
there are growing pains to deal with."

Austin Energy is promoting rooftop solar in part to test the benefits of
splitting the cost of electrical generation with homeowners. At some point,
utility officials say, it could be cheaper to help homeowners pay for solar
arrays than to build new power plants, which typically come with price tags in
the billions. Austin Energy is proposing that solar generate 3 percent of
Austin's electricity by 2020, some of that coming from rooftop solar.

But widespread rooftop solar is years, maybe decades, away, utility officials
say. There are now about 800 rooftop solar arrays in Austin generating a
negligible amount of the city's total electricity.

Rabago said Austin Energy isn't sure at what point solar subsidies become more
cost-effective than new power plants and has instead viewed the solar rebates as
a short-term market stimulator.

Jim Sylvana, owner of Celestial Power , an Austin-based solar contractor with 12
employees, said the price of solar panels has dropped from $4.10 per watt to
$2.40 since December. The panels are only part of the cost, which includes labor
and other equipment. Rabago said such price drops make rebates less necessary.

In March, Austin Energy lowered its rebate. It currently pays $3.75 per watt in
most cases, which works out to about two-thirds of the cost of an average-size
home array. A new federal subsidy could reduce a homeowner's portion to less
than a quarter of the cost.

That math appealed to residents in the Mueller neighborhood, a development on
the former Robert Mueller Municipal Airport. About 20 households there have
banded together to negotiate better deals on solar.

Tal Tversky, who moved to Mueller a year ago, decided to sign on when he heard
the cost could be mde up in about seven years of energy savings.

"But as soon as they drop (the subsidy) from $3.75 per watt to $3," as Austin
Energy has floated, "it takes 12 years to pay off," Tversky said. "At that point
it's not worth it."

He and other solar advocates are upset for other reasons.

Austin Energy met with Austin contractors Thursday to inform them that they may
apply the lower rebate to all applications filed after Sept. 1 - leaving many of
the contractors stunned .

"It can take four months of working with a customer before we file an
application," Sylvana said. "It really hurts us in customers' eyes if you change
the expectations during that process, especially if we have no warning it's
going to happen. The rebate has been too high," he said, "but what they're doing
about it creates an unstable business climate."

At Thursday's meeting, Rabago also said Austin Energy wants to suspend the
rebates for commercial and nonprofit organizations.

Meridian Solar , the contractor handling St. Luke's project, filed the rebate
application with Austin Energy this week. The 15.75-kilowatt system would
generate about half the amount of energy St. Luke uses, Meridian said.

But under the proposed change, the nonprofit church would get none of the
$68,000 it was counting on under the rebate program. The church is also not
eligible for federal solar tax rebates, said Brooke Ferguson, the Meridian
employee handling the project.

Dorman said five months of meetings, planning and effort are now likely for
nought.

"We could pay $28,000," she said. "We can't pay $96,000."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 20, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Air cleanup plan includes rebates, grants, tougher standards

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 386 words


Lawmakers got their first look Thursday at a wide-ranging proposal intended to
tamp down air pollution across the state.

The plan includes $4,000 rebates for the purchase of plug-in hybrid vehicles,
grants for pollution-cutting equipment at power plants, higher energy efficiency
standards for appliances such as DVD players and pool pumps, and instructions to
several state agencies to participate in federal negotiations over how to track
greenhouse gases.

In recent years, the state has tried to cut emissions of smog-producing
pollutants to try to meet federal clean air standards. Those attempts have meant
special vehicle emissions tests in some counties, including Travis and
Williamson, and programs to pay low-income families to get older cars off the
road.

But the federal government recently announced plans to toughen air standards,
prompting lawmakers to look at ways to further improve air quality.

"We have to keep the pedal pushed down," said state Sen. Kip Averitt, R-Waco,
who proposed the measure and is chairman of the Senate Natural Resources
Committee.

But the proposal, which has widespread support from environmental interests, has
at least one potential sticking point.

A measure that would require the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality to
consider the cumulative effects of air pollution across the state when awarding
permits to power plants hit opposition from manufacturing, utility and business
interests.

"It puts all the burden of cumulative effects on one industry," said John
Fainter , president of the Association of Electrical Companies of Texas. A
similar measure failed last session.

Another part of the bill instructs the environmental commission, the Railroad
Commission and the Public Utility Commission to participate in the development
of federal greenhouse gas reporting requirements, which could come along with
climate change rules in Washington.

"Texas has so much to lose in that argument," Averitt said. "It's easy for
people in other states to point the finger and say you're the bad guys (on
carbon emissions), but they're buying petrochemicals and things our state
produces."

Larry Soward, commissioner at the environmental commission, said, "It's a good,
reasonable first step, albeit the minimum Texas should be doing at this point."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Global warming language angers environmentalists

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 312 words


The State Board of Education on Friday adopted standards on the teaching of
global warming that appear to both question its existence and prod students to
explore its implications.

Standards are used to guide textbook makers and teachers.

Language that instructed students to "analyze and evaluate different views on
the existence of global warming," which had been offered as an amendment and was
adopted unanimously in an initial vote Thursday, led to outrage among
environmental groups.

"In a last-minute assault on science and sensibility, the board appears to be
supporting its own ideological views rather than those of proven science," said
Ramon Alvarez , a senior scientist with Environmental Defense Fund.

The chairman of the state board, Don McLeroy , called the standards "perfectly
good."

"Conservatives like me think the evidence (for human contributions to global
warming) is a bunch of hooey," McLeroy said.

But the state board approved standards that engage some of the underlying causes
and effects of global warming, including one that calls on students to "analyze
the empirical relationship between the emissions of carbon dioxide, atmospheric
carbon dioxide levels, and the average global temperature trends over the past
150 years" and another to "describe the effect of pollution on global warming,
glacial and ice cap melting, greenhouse effect, ozone layer, and aquatic
viability."

The current standards, which were adopted about a decade ago, barely touch on
climate change.

"Asking students to independently discover the relationship between ice melting
and global warming is important," said James Canup , executive director of the
Texas League of Conservation Voters . "But the main message coming out of there
is that Texas is setting a bad standard by putting question marks next to global
warming in the textbooks."

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

EPA moves ahead on global warming

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN EDITORIAL AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 492 words


By now it's hardly news that Earth's climate is warming and that the evidence
points to human activity, particularly the burning of coal and oil, as the
primary reason for it. And it shouldn't be news that the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency says such warming could threaten public health.

But it was only last week that the EPA said that rising concentrations of carbon
dioxide and five other "greenhouse gases" indeed threaten human health and that
it officially began the long process of deciding what to do about it.

With Earth Day celebrations on Wednesday, the EPA's step toward facing facts is
overdue but welcome.

There's no question that grappling with greenhouse gases could raise the price
of energy, and that Texas, which produces more greenhouse gases than any other
state, could feel the effect. The higher costs, however, reflect the fact that
people around the world, not just Americans, have never had to reckon with the
full cost of energy - the cost not just of extracting useful work from natural
resources such as coal and oil, but the cost of doing it in a way that doesn't,
over time, damage the atmosphere.

On the other hand, many business interests wailed and gnashed their teeth in the
1960s and 1970s when clear water and clean air laws were passed, warning they
would be a burden to industry and consumers. Few today suggest repealing those
laws to lower costs.

The EPA ruling came after a two-year study that was begun under President George
W. Bush - but only after the U.S. Supreme Court forced the agency to grapple
with the danger of greenhouse gases in connection with automobile emission
regulations. The Bush administration largely tried to ignore the issue.

The EPA has a 60-day comment period on its official findings, which can be found
at its Web site (www.epa.gov), but EPA officials emphasize that they will not
rush to draft new regulations but will look to Congress to enact new
legislation.

In fact, it would be far better for Congress to enact legislation than to have
unelected regulators set the rules on this critical change to U.S. environmental
policy. President Barack Obama has proposed a "cap and trade" policy that would
limit greenhouse gas emissions but enable companies to buy and sell the rights
to make such emissions. The president, however, has left the details to
Congress, and that debate has begun.

Over the past decade, critics and doubters about global warming have steadily
retreated, from denying it exists, to questioning whether it is caused by
humans, to throwing up their hands and saying, well, there's not anything to be
done about it now, and it would be too expensive to try.

Among those doubters and critics has been Gov. Rick Perry. But they need to
understand: The argument is over, and science won. The United States is moving
toward limiting the emission of greenhouse gases, and the sooner Texas faces up
to the need to limit those gases, the more it can control its own fate.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              March 1, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Does UT really want a bookstore? Does UT really need a bookstore? SALAMON:
Follett's never was a place to linger

BYLINE: JEFF SALAMON AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. H05

LENGTH: 1677 words


The closing March 7 of the Follett's Intellectual Property bookstore on the Drag
is sure to depress the aspirations some people have for what sort of institution
the University of Texas should be.

After all, the store's 2006 opening was, in part, a response to the pressure the
academic community put on the university's administration. After the Barnes &
Noble on the Drag shut its doors in 2004, a letter campaign was started by a
handful of UT professors who were dismayed by the lack of a general interest
bookstore in the area. "We have now become the only major university in the
country without a bookstore," one version of the letter read. "This development
is deeply embarrassing for us as a center of intellectual excellence."

The university responded by signing a deal with Follett's, one of the country's
largest operators of college bookstores. In one sense, it was a sweetheart deal.
The University Co-Op, which holds a long-term lease on the property at 24th and
Guadalupe streets that had been vacated by Tower Records, gave Follett's a
$75,000 break on the rent for each year of a three-year sublease - a pretty good
running start. In another sense, though, Follett's was forced to operate with
one hand tied behind its back: It was forbidden to sell textbooks, a lucrative
gig that was reserved for the Co-Op.

Still, local academics were glad that their concerns had been addressed, and
optimistic that things would work out. At the time, I heard a fair number of
professors pledge to stop shopping at Amazon. Asked to name a university whose
bookstore could serve as a model for UT's, George Mitchell, president of the
Co-Op, mentioned Stanford.

The sharpest discouraging voice I heard was that of classics professor Thomas
Palaima, who said, "I'll just be frank: The intellectual climate at Stanford is
light years different than the intellectual climate at UT."

So, does the closing of Follett's prove him right?

It's tough to say. There's little doubt that Follett's didn't draw much
business. "Many times I went in and there was no traffic," Mitchell says. But
it's not clear what that tells us.

Michael Granof, chairman of the Co-Op, rejects the notion that Follett's failure
reveals something about the quality of UT's student body. He points, instead, to
the fact that bookstores are struggling across the board. Bookstop, a longtime
fixture in the Central Park strip mall, recently closed, and even downtown's
beloved BookPeople just eliminated 2.5 positions.

There were, though, problems specific to Follett's, some of them self-inflicted.
Parking in the area is notoriously difficult. History professor Tony Hopkins,
who was one of the people who organized the letter-writing campaign that led to
Follett's arrival, notes that the store seems to have never been listed in the
Yellow Pages and failed to take full advantage of its large display windows.
(Follett corporate headquarters in Illinois declined to comment on any specific
complaints abut the store, other than to note that the Yellow Pages are "not
part of our marketing mix," due to decreased usage of printed phone
directories.)

Follett's did a lousy job of marketing itself in even more profound ways. Part
of the store's deal with the Co-Op was that the two entities would cooperate on
events featuring UT professors discussing and signing their books. But despite
repeated offers on Mitchell's part to organize such events - he was willing to
come up with guest lists and send out invitations - Follett's took him up on his
offer only once, for Vijay Mahajan's "Africa Rising."

Hopkins also notes that the store failed to reach out to faculty and alert them
to upcoming events. (I can sympathize. Despite signing up for Follett's e-mail
newsletter twice and making repeated calls to the store asking them to let me
know about author readings in advance so I could publicize them in this
newspaper, I rarely heard from anyone there.) Other faculty, according to
Granof, complained about the store's book selection. Granof is skeptical of that
complaint, but does note that once, when he went in to buy a copy of Tom
Vanderbilt's best-selling "Traffic: Why We Drive the Way We Do," there was none
to be found. The store offered to order it for him, but that would have taken
days, so he just went home and had it overnighted by Amazon.

Each of these complaints has some legitimacy. But I also think there's something
slightly more ineffable at work here.

Though bookstores are in the business of selling books, their customers are in
the habit of doing more than buying books. The modern-day bookstore, festooned
with cafes, lounge chairs and Wi-Fi connections, has become a place where people
like to hang out, to see other people who are interested in books and be seen by
fellow book lovers. Though Follett's had some nice individualized design
touches, it never felt like much of a destination. The chain's decision to place
a multimedia store on the mezzanine level rather than a cafe seems like a signal
mistake - coffee and scones might have brought people through its doors who
would have bought the occasional book or the more than occasional magazine. It's
hard to imagine a couple of UT students making plans for a Thursday night
saying, "Hey! Let's meet at Follett's!"

Still, even if Follett's had installed hot and cold running coffee in its
bathrooms and offered free valet parking, it's not clear it would have made a
going concern of the store. After all, Barnes & Noble had a cafe and plenty of
comfy chairs and it couldn't turn a profit on the Drag. The Co-Op, which should
certainly know the local audience, lost money when it tried to sell trade books.

It's possible that a profitable bookstore in the campus area simply isn't
feasible. Amazon, with its substantial discounts and bottomless stock that no
brick-and-mortar store can match, has simply made it too easy and too cheap to
order a book online when the fancy strikes you at midnight. Bookstores are
closing left and right, and though certainly many will remain, we may be
surprised at the places where none do.

Neither Mitchell nor Granof expect a new bookstore to appear near campus anytime
soon. And though that's a shame, perhaps we have to accept that it's not the end
of the world. Many of us believe that bookstores are vital to our society's
intellectual health, but maybe they're not as essential to a university's
intellectual health as we think. Though many of us adrift in the 9-to-5 world
are desperate for intellectual engagement and companionship, UT's population is
swimming in it. (Thomas Palaima might argue I'm idealizing the situation.) After
all, students have access to a world-class library system, accomplished
professors and academic clubs where like-minded budding intellectuals can meet
one another. And those treasured books that can change a student's life - "On
the Road," "I Lost It at the Movies," "Civilization and Its Discontents" - can
be found as easily online as they ever were at your local bookstore.

I don't want to be blasé about this. Without a bookstore, students and faculty
are deprived of something wonderful: the pleasure of browsing through shelves of
books, gazing at cover art, reading jacket copy and stumbling across a great
book you've never heard of. Every serious reader knows that many profound
intellectual and aesthetic experiences are based on that sort of serendipity.

But not every pleasure necessarily establishes a corresponding business model.
And perhaps today's students are simply more likely to stumble across books on
the Web - in the reference notes at the bottom of a Wikipedia entry or amid
those obsessive lists of must reads that people post on Amazon. For me, that's
not the same as spending a leisurely hour lost in a bookstore. But, then, I'm 44
- I didn't grow up online.

Speaking of getting lost in a bookstore, a few years ago I visited the Seminary
Co-Op by the University of Chicago. It's a wonderful space, located in the
basement of, yes, a seminary. Even without refreshments or cushioned chairs, it
qualifies as a destination. It's a labyrinthine series of cubby hole-like
spaces, covered floor to ceiling with books, some of which, you suspect, have
sat there for decades. It's an easy place to get lost in, literally and
figuratively. If Charlie Kaufman set a movie inside Susan Sontag's brain, he'd
film it here.

It's an unusual place (as is the University of Chicago), and it has an unusual
back story: It was founded 48 years ago by a group of 17 readers who each
invested $10. Which is to say, it grew organically, over the course of many
years, out of the community's intellectual aspirations.

If a critical mass of UT's faculty and students thinks that a bookstore is an
essential part of the educational experience, perhaps they should look to the
long-term picture: Form a group. Hold some fundraisers, featuring prominent UT
professors reading from their works or reciting "Jabberwocky" from memory. Apply
for a grant. Then, perhaps, open a small cafe with beat-up old lounge chairs
that hosts talks and book signings by UT professors and visiting academics.
Maybe the cafe would be staffed by volunteers, and offer special deals to people
who pay to become members.

Tony Hopkins notes that one thing he'll miss about Follett's is the excellent
selection of magazines and journals - an impulse buy that Amazon really can't
compete on; he hopes the Co-Op installs a first-rate magazine rack in its store.
But perhaps our imagined cafe could do so. It might lose money on the
periodicals, but perhaps not enough to sink the entire enterprise. And perhaps,
over the course of a few years, the cafe/magazine store would nurture the sort
of community that would support - no, hunger for - a bookstore. And perhaps the
cafe would add an annex filled with books. And maybe, over the course of years,
that annex would grow.

A pipe dream? Probably. But after the failures of Barnes & Noble and Follett's,
so is expecting UT's administration to swoop down and install another bookstore
on the Drag.

jsalamon@statesman.com; 445-3610

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 3, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

CLARIFICATION

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 43 words


A story on Page A4 in some editions April 24 about the Global Climate Coalition
should have said that a later version of a paper distributed by that industry
group in 1998 acknowledged the scientific consensus that greenhouse gases could
contribute to warming.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Will cleaner power hurt poor?

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 850 words


State Rep. Eddie Rodriguez is organizing a community energy forum to hash out
concerns raised by the Catholic Diocese of Austin that an Austin Energy plan to
increase the use of renewable sources could hurt the poor.

The forum Saturday will discuss plans to triple the portion of green energy used
by the utility.

Rodriguez and many of the city's environmental activists say the diocese raised
a worthwhile point - but also wrongly framed the issue as poor people versus
green energy.

"As an Austin Energy customer, as someone who cares about the environment, as a
Catholic, and as a state legislator who represents a largely low-income
constituency," Rodriguez wrote on his campaign Web site, "" the idea that we
must choose between having clean, affordable energy or protecting the poor is a
false dilemma - one that's especially disingenuous considering that the poor are
disproportionately affected by the impacts of dirty energy."

Rodriguez, a Democrat who represents parts of eastern, southern and southeastern
Travis County, said he hopes to attract an audience of churchgoers, officials
and activists.

Rodriguez and some of the city's environmental activists acknowledge that
transitioning to more wind and solar energy could result in higher short-term
electricity costs. But they also say the city could find ways to ensure the poor
aren't hurt by the change. Suggestions included shifting new costs toward
Austinites who use the most electricity and spending more utility revenue to
make homes energy efficient, thereby reducing bills.

In the meantime, they say, Austin Energy should not delay deciding on its
Resource and Climate Protection Plan , as Monsignor Michael Mulvey , head of the
Catholic Diocese of Austin, has called for. The plan would reduce Austin's
reliance on fossil fuels, which contribute to global warming.

"It's late in the day, and we're running out of time to make meaningful change,"
said Bee Moorhead , the executive director of Texas Impact , a statewide
advocacy organization representing 17,000 church congregations and individuals.
"The people who are most impacted by environmental degradation are
lower-income."

Austin Energy's plan calls for the city to get 35 percent of its electricity
from renewable sources, such as wind and solar power, by 2020 . Austin now gets
about 12 percent of its electricity from those sources.

The plan also calls for Austin Energy to take steps such as helping more
homeowners pay for weather stripping and better insulation, which utility
officials say would lower the city's demand for electricity.

The City Council, which serves as Austin Energy's board of directors, is
scheduled to vote on the plan late this year or early next year.

Diocese leaders began raising the alarm about the plan in mid-September. The
sentiments were immediately echoed by Meals on Wheels, which delivers meals to
low-income people.

Mulvey wrote in a widely circulated letter that data he had gathered - data that
some environmental activists say are incomplete and unreliable - showed
electricity bills rising as much as 50 percent over the next five years.

Ron Walker , chancellor for the diocese, said its leaders have since held
productive discussions with environmental-advocacy groups and Austin Energy
officials.

But Walker said the energy plan should still be postponed until as late as 2012
. He said that would give Austin Energy time to restructure its rates and
determine the effects of proposed federal legislation on the cost of coal and
natural gas.

"We definitely want to slow the conversation," Walker said. "But it sounds like,
at this point, even if the plan goes through, we can get some planks in to
address our concerns."

Most industry analysts say it's a safe bet that energy prices will go up in the
coming years. Worldwide demand is rising, and many expect the federal government
to enact some sort of cap on carbon-emitting fuels, such as coal, which
contribute to global warming.

Austin Energy estimates that the plan to add more renewable energy would raise
bills for the average household 22 percent by 2020 under current rates.

"Our motto is to provide clean, reliable, affordable electricity," said Roger
Duncan , the utility's general manager, who announced last week that he will
retire next spring. "We think what we've proposed is the best balance of those
three things."

Jim Marston , head of the Texas chapter of the Environmental Defense Fund , said
the diocese's bill predictions are too high. He also noted that Austin Energy
was recently awarded a $5.8 million federal stimulus grant to make low-income
homes more energy efficient, and already has a robust energy-efficiency program
that has spent millions in low-income grants and loans.

"We share the church's concerns about low-income folks," Marston said. "If we're
worried about their bills, we should also lower their rates."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

Green forum
 State Rep. Eddie Rodriguez and Texas Impact will host a forum, 'Shifting
Toward Green Energy, Affordably,' from 10 a.m. to noon Saturday at Cristo Rey
Catholic Church parish center, 2215 E. Second St.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday
                               Austin360 Edition

a360blast: arts

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: AUSTIN360; Pg. T19

LENGTH: 245 words


Sunday

Miró Quartet. Austin's fab four - the string quartet in residence at the
University of Texas' Butler School of Music - offers an afternoon gig at the
Blanton Museum. On the program is Haydn's Quartet in E-flat major, also known as
'The Joke,' along with Beethoven's Quartet in A minor. 2 p.m. Sunday. Blanton
Museum of Art, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Congress Avenue. $3-$7.
www.blantonmuseum.org.

Tuesday and Wednesday

Compagnie Julie Dossavi. Julie Dossavi is a French gymnast, dancer and
choreographer of West African descent who injects her live performances with
modern dance, contemporary street culture moves and traditional African dance.
In 'P.I. (Pays) or Presentations Intimes,' electronic dance music and pounding
percussion provide the soundscape to Dossavi's athletically explosive yet
graceful dance. 8 p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday. Rollins Studio Theatre, Long
Center, 701 W. Riverside Drive. $15-$21. www.danceumbrella.com.

Wednesday

'Trey McIntyre Project's "The Sun Road." ' Former choreographer for the Houston
Ballet Trey McIntyre has his own explosive, edgy style of contemporary ballet.
For his multimedia performance 'The Sun Road,' McIntyre considers Glacier
National Park, celebrating its grandeur but also examining the threat posed to
its beauty by a changing global climate. 8 p.m. Bass Concert Hall, University of
Texas campus, 23rd Street and Robert Dedman Drive. $26-$36. www.texasperforming
arts.com.

­... Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Reusable bag company rings success bell

BYLINE: Kaitlin Ballard AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 801 words


We all have a special way of celebrating, of taking a second to realize
achievements. For the women behind Blue Avocado, a line of eco-friendly grocery
bags launched a year ago, that special way is in the form of a bell, like the
kind you ring when supper's ready.

Founders Paige Davis, Melissa Nathan and Amy George recently purchased one for
their East Austin office to take note of small successes, such as getting good
sales news or securing another retailer.

"We've rung it like five times," George said four (working) days after the
purchase.

"Now we're a little crazy with it," said Nathan.

Despite meeting for coffee at different times (George and Nathan at Whole Foods
and Davis at Progress Cafe), they share similar sentiments about the growth of
their company and the reception among retailers and consumers. Davis and Nathan
are sisters, and George and Nathan went to the McCombs School of Business
together.

Blue Avocado started as a response to plastic bag ban initiatives across U.S.
cities, with San Francisco at the forefront in early 2007. Davis was living
there at the time and relayed the news to her sister, who admits she used nearly
50 plastic bags per week for her young family.

"We started thinking " what would it take for me and people like myself to kick
the plastic bag habit?" said Nathan.

After several online surveys and product tests, where users journaled their
likes and dislikes for two weeks, the first line of Gro-Pak reusable grocery
bags was born. They found that while the bags needed to be functional, they also
needed to be stylish, not to mention collapsible and machine washable.

The Gro-Pak bags are designed to work together and can be purchased in a kit or
separately (kits start at $29.99). With names like Pak, Gro, Veg, Pod and Chil,
each have a specific function. For instance, the Veg is a ventilated mesh bag
and is kept in a side pouch on the Pak bag labeled "Veg here"; the Chil can keep
items hot or cold for up to three hours, and the Pod is an all-purpose bag that
clips to the pak. They fold up to a clutch-size kit that can be taken anywhere.

It's been labeled "the diaper bag for grocery shopping," said Davis.

A year after the launch, the bags are sold in more than 40 states and Canada at
stores such as Sprouts, Whole Foods, H-E-B and Kroger. The company has received
national press in Real Simple, InStyle, Parade and "Good Morning America."

The goal was to "start the green journey" for people, and that journey has
crossed into nearly every aspect of their lives, too. Nathan downsized her car,
and George's 3- and 5-year-old use "reduce, reuse, recycle" in everyday
conversation.

Blue Avocado has different connotations for each of the founders, though "the
avocado is very clear. It's the green inside," said Nathan. For her, the blue is
about style. "For Amy it was very much about the environment, and for Paige it
definitely had style, but it has more of a community around it."

The recent launch of a holiday kit and two new bag colors has brought upgrades.
Blue Avocado wanted to trace the recycled materials in their bags, but quickly
realized few companies provide such a service. They found Repreve, a company
based in North Carolina that turns recycled plastic into reusable fibers and is
the material used in the bags. The manufacturing company also happens to be
women-run, a pleasant surprise when they toured the plant.

Then there's Schlumpy, a giant ball of plastic bags. He was created with the
help of their advertising partner, TKO Advertising, as a way to catch people's
attention and raise awareness.

They created the Billion Bag Pledge, a movement to get people to pledge to stop
using plastic bags. So far, they've reached almost 1.4 million pledges and
Schlumpy plans to go on tour next year. He's already been to Chicago, L.A.,
Atlanta and Nashville and was seen here at the Austin City Limits Music
Festival.

Schlumpy's not the only one gaining recognition. Davis recently returned from
Scotland after attending the British American Project annual conference as a
newly nominated delegate to represent the U.S. This year's theme was "From
Abundance to Scarcity" and focused on issues of food, water, climate change and
energy. The result of the weeklong event is a formal letter to the president and
the prime minister.

"The whole purpose is to encourage a trans-Atlantic debate and dialogue," said
Davis. "It's a macro-level organization and very much about policy and systemic
change."

Just as the BAP hopes to respond to problems, so does Blue Avocado. After all
that's how this all began and they continue to achieve their goals despite
launching in the middle of a recession.

And they have their eye on Earth Day, when they plan to reveal a new product.
They're optimistic there will be plenty more chances to ring their bell.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 6627 words


Donald Rick

Donald Rick, 80 of Bastrop, passed away on Wednesday, July 1, 2009. He was born
on August 7, 1928 in Detroit, Michigan.

Major Rick's achievements in life included a 27 year career in the USMC/U.S.
Army, retiring in1973; following with 5 years of service as a Colonel in the
State Guard; during his military service he served in the Korean War and Vietnam
War.

Donald is preceded in death by his parents, Chester Joseph and Roselyn Rick;
first wife of 34 years, Catherine Anne; infant son and step-son, Jarvis Angeley.

Cherishing his memory are his loving wife of 25 years Gaye Rick; his children,
Chester and wife Rebecca, Deborah and husband William Kuhn, Cheri Duvall, and
Sandy Angeley; 13 grandchildren, 5 great-grandchildren.

Visitation on Sunday, July 5, 2009, at Marrs-Jones-Newby F.H. from 5:00 p.m.
until 8:00 p.m. The funeral service will be held on Monday, July 6, 2009, at
10:00 a.m., at the Ascension Catholic Church. Interment Thursday, July 9, 2009,
at 2:30 p.m., at Ft. Bliss National Cemetery, El Paso, TX.

James H. McPhail

James Hendrick McPhail, age 84, of Austin, Texas, died on July 2, 2009. He was
born on October 5, 1924 to John Hendrick and Lilia Myrteil Towns McPhail in
Trinity, Texas.

James was a veteran of World War II, serving in the US Army Air Corps. He was
employed in the financial industry working as a stockbroker.

James is survived by his wife, Maria Pappas McPhail; his sister, Myrteil Murray;
his children, Janie Fetterman, Mike McPhail and Nancy Litzau; grandchildren,
David Litzau, Marlena Sprouse, Elise Roosevelt, Christopher Fetterman, Michael
Fetterman and MacKenzie McPhail; as well as nieces, nephews and three great-
grandsons. He was predeceased by his parents and his brother, Joe McPhail.

The family will receive friends from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. on Monday, July 6, 2009
at Weed- Corley-Fish Funeral Home, North Lamar location.

Graveside Services will be held at 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, July 7, 2009 at Austin
Memorial Park.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Ulysses Simpson Grant, Jr.

On July 1, 2009, Ulysses S. Grant, Jr. began his journey home after a brief
illness. He lived his life his way - with integrity and honor. His family motto
is "Stand Fast" and he did...standing his ground in the face of reversals and
adversity. He walked this earth with pride and dignity.

He served his country with honor and for 22 years continued to serve the Air
Force until his retirement on disability. During his tenure with the Air Force
he earned many awards including, The Curtis Lemay Award; The Good Conduct Medal;
The National Defense Medal; and the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award.

His family came first and he leaves behind to mourn him and remember him, his
wife of 55 years, Monique; his children, Jacques David Grant of Austin, Cherie
Monique Kuhne of Dallas and Denise Anne Grant-Trice of Lubbock. He also leaves
six grandchildren whom he loved dearly, Andy Shakespeare of Lubbock, Mallory
Anne Trice of Nashville, Sabrina Marie Trice of Lubbock, and Christopher Grant,
Paul Grant and Andrew Grant of Austin.

He was preceded in death by his father, U.S. Grant, mother Hazel Carter Grant,
and brothers, David and William Grant and his own son, William Daniel Grant.

He will be interred with military honors at Ft. Sam Houston National Cemetery in
San Antonio, following a private family service.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

William King (Will) Brown

Will Brown, 75, died early June 28, 2009 as a result of a head injury suffered
in a fall earlier this year. Born in Radford, Virginia, he graduated with a
master's degree from the Medical College of Virginia, School of Hospital
Administration. As a Captain in the Navy and Ex Marine he served in the Korean
War. During Operation Desert Storm he was recalled to duty and was stationed at
Andrews Air Force Base where he coordinated the return and care of our injured
troops.

In 1971 Will relocated his family to Austin where he was the Administrator of
Brackenridge Hospital for seven years. He later worked for the State of Texas
and retired in 2002. Service to his community was of great importance and he
volunteered his time generously to the American Red Cross, AARP, APD Volunteer
Policing, RSVP and many others.

Will is survived by his wife of 52 years, Lakki. He also leaves behind daughters
Valerie and Laura, and grandsons Christopher, Cameron and Ethan; and brother,
Ray Brown and his family.

Services will be held at 2:00 p.m., Tuesday, July 7, at St. Matthew's Episcopal
Church, 8134 Mesa Drive, Austin. In lieu of flowers, the family requests
donations be made to the Endowment Fund at St. Matthew's Episcopal Church.

Gilbert Lee Bielss

Nov. 6, 1949 - July 2, 2009

Gilbert Lee Bielss, beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend, passed away
Thursday night at the age of 59. Born in Georgetown, TX he attended McCallum
High School and the University of Texas at Austin. He and Jo Nell Martin were
married on February 17, 1973 in Austin, TX. He retired in 2007 as a Command
Sergeant Major after serving 33 years for the Texas Army National Guard. Gilbert
passionately loved his volunteer work for the Town and Country Optimist Club for
many, many years.

Survived by his wife of 35 years, Jo Nell Bielss, son Justin Blaine Bielss,
daughter and son-in-law Tamra Bielss Marbibi and Vince Marbibi, granddaughters
Hailey Grace Marbibi and Lauren Faith Marbibi, his mother Leatrice Schneider
Bielss, sister-in-law Katherine Parks, nephew Clayton Parks, and countless other
friends whose lives he touched.

"As water reflects a face, so a man's heart reflects the man." Proverbs 27:19.

Visitation will be held on Monday July 6, 2009 from 5:00 PM to 7:00PM and a
celebration of his life will be held on Tuesday July 7, 2009 at 1:00 PM at
Cook-Walden/ Capital Parks Funeral Home in Pflugerville, TX. Interment will
follow at Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Cemetery.

In Loving Memory of

Murray Wykes, USN

Dec. 06, 1907 - June 08, 1993

Jim Wykes, USN

April 12, 1935 - Jan. 14, 2000

David Wykes, USN. Ret.

July 11, 1957 - April 16, 2009

WE ARE FREE BECAUSE

OF THE BRAVE.

Mary Loretta Aaronson

"Mom"

Mary Loretta "Mom" Aaronson entered Eternal Rest July 1, 2009 at the age of 74.
Mary was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee, April 1, 1935, and married her only
love, "Jack" Aaronson at a very young age of 16. Jack stole her heart while on
leave in the military in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and their marriage endured 54
years of life's struggles until Jack passed away in 2004. Mary was resourceful
as a mother in raising her four children and making a life for them while
traveling the world as a "Military Wife". To Mary, her life was her children.
There was nothing she would not do for her family, even when they became adults.
Mary put her vocation of mother before anything including her own needs. The
legacy she leaves to her children is how to love and how to live their life for
another as she did for her kids. Mary, after her children were grown, worked at
the Art Institute of Houston and then retired and took care of Jack because he
became ill. Mary was a faithful Catholic who attended the St. Vincent de Paul
Catholic Church in Houston. After Jack passed, Mary was never the same. She
isfinally at rest with her only love Jack, in heaven.

Mary Aaronson is preceded in death by her father, Elbert Beene, her mother,
TabithaCannon, and her husband Ret. SFC John "Jack" Aaronson.

Mary is survived by her children, Theresa Aaronson, John Aaronson, Deacon
Michael Aaronson and Dolly Fernandez. Grandchildren, Robbie, Jason, Mike,
Amanda, Kevin, Chrissy, Diana, Julie and Becky. Great- grandchildren, Jeremy and
Destiny. "Mom" will be greatly missed by her family.

Visitation will be from 6:00 to 7:00 p.m., with a Vigil and Rosary recited from
7:00 to 8:00 p.m., Sunday, July 5th, at Earthman Bellaire Funeral Home, 6700
Ferris Street. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 10:30 a.m.,
Monday, July 6th, at the St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church, 6800 Buffalo
Speedway. Reverend Adam Martinez will be the Celebrant. The Rite of Committal
will follow at Houston National Cemetery.

Earthman Bellaire Funeral Home, 6700 Ferris St., Bellaire,TX 77401

Katherine Patton Carssow

Katherine Patton Carssow, selfless wife, mother, teacher, counselor, and
community leader died Monday June 29, 2009. She was 89.

Katherine was born January 11, 1920 in Decatur, Georgia, to Dr. James Godfrey
Patton and Katherine Jones Patton. The daughter of a Presbyterian minister, she
and her three younger brothers were raised in Abington, Virginia. Katherine
returned to Decatur to attend Agnes Scott College, graduating in 1940 as a
member of Mortar Board National College Senior Honor Society.

After college, she served as Director of Religious Education at First
Presbyterian Church in Shreveport, Louisiana. While there, she met US Army Air
Corps officer William Benton Carssow on October 18, 1942. They were married June
11, 1943 in Waynesboro, Virginia.

She and Bill settled in Austin after World War II. Bill, a former state
representative and the first Executive Director of the State Bar of Texas,
founded the law firm of Alvis & Carssow, while Katherine raised their four young
children. She was active in the community and her children's lives, as a leader
in PTAs at Wooldridge Elementary, University Junior High, and Austin High School
in the 1950s and 1960s, and a volunteer in Brownie Scouts, Cub Scouts, and the
Austin Aquatic Club.

After her children reached school age, Katherine began her career in education
as a teacher at Lamar Junior High School and later earned a master's degree and
school counselor certification at the University of Texas. She started as a
counselor at Lanier High School when it opened in 1961. Her patience and caring
had a profound effect on the students and the school until her retirement in
1978. She remained an active member of Delta Kappa Gamma, a women's education
organization, long after her retirement.

Katherine was a devoted Christian, deeply involved in her church community. She
was an elder and high school youth leader at University Presbyterian Church, and
later was a charter member, elder, and Stephen Minister at Hope Presbyterian
Church. She made the Walk to Emmaus in the mid 1990s and served on an Emmaus
team in 2004.

She and Bill built their retirement home on their 1890 Ranch in Cedar Park,
Texas, moving there in 1980. The Ranch was the center of countless family
gatherings, including three weddings. They also hosted church and community
events for decades.

Katherine devoted time as a volunteer with the Northwest Caregivers and Meals on
Wheels, providing friendship and regular visits to senior citizens. She and Bill
were also active travelers, square dancers, and season ticket holders of
University of Texas baseball.

She will be remembered for her optimism, her loving kindness, and her genuine
interest in and affection for people from all walks of life.

Katherine is survived by her children, Tim Carssow and his wife, Karen; Jim
Carssow, Lynn Carssow Adams, and Ben Carssow and his wife, Nancy
Lehmann-Carssow; her grandchildren, Ryan Carssow and his wife, Kristina, Kevin
Carssow, US Army Capt. Graham Carssow, Katie Carssow, Amy Adams, Sophie Carssow,
and Henry Carssow; and her great-grandchildren, Abigail Carssow and Jack
Carssow.

She is preceded in death by Bill, her husband of 65 years, her parents James and
Katherine Patton, and her three brothers Sam Patton, Jim Patton, and Claude
"Red" Patton.

A memorial service will be held at 2:00 p.m., Sunday July 5, at Hope
Presbyterian Church, 11512 Olson Drive in Austin.

In lieu of flowers the family requests donations be made to the Generation to
Generation fund at Hope Presbyterian Church.

David Crump

On July 2, 2009, David Crump of Austin, Texas, beloved husband, father,
grandfather, brother and friend, was lovingly placed in the arms of God, Our
Father after a year long battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 55.

David was born in Salem, New Jersey to Richard M. and Sally Ann Crump where his
father was an engineer for Dupont. There would be many years of moves ahead
which would include, Woodstown, New Jersey, Concord and Chico, California,
Mexico City and Coatzacoalcos, Mexico before making Texas his home. Although he
was not born in Texas, you would have never know it. In his heart he was a pure
Texan.

David graduated from Concord High School, Concord California.

After moving to Corpus Christi, Texas, David started working in the oilfield.
Dedicating over 25 years to the oilfield, he worked for Marine Drilling in
Corpus Chr isti, Global Marine Drilli ng in Houston and finally Diamond Offshore
Drilling, also in Houston where he was an engineer. The oilfield truly became a
huge part of his life his life.

David will always be remembered for his fierce loyalty to family and friends,
his steadfast views on politics and religion, his love of hunting, fishing, the
outdoors, Nascar and his dedication to his dogs and his birds. For those who
listened he was the ultimate teacher. His knowledge of everything from guns to
history were truly astounding!

David was proceeded in death by his father and mother, Richard M. Crump and
Sally Ann Crump of Harlingen, Texas and his brother Rick Crump of Concord,
California.

He is survived by his loving wife, Dianne. Children, Brandy and son-in-law
Johnny, Brent and his girlfriend Tina. David's adored grandchildren, Aubree,
Noah, Mia and baby Brooke Leigh due in October. David's brothers Mike Crump
(sons John and Brian) and Stephen Crump both of Durham, California and by many
aunts, cousins and very close friends.

David's family would like to extend very special thanks to George and Linda
Marchese of Belle Chasse, Lou isiana for their undying love and friendship
through this very difficult year, a couple that make you believe there are
angels walking amongst us. To David's Ocean Confidence family, whose continued
support and generosity to our family will never be forgotten. And to Dianne's
friends and coworkers at Giddens Elementary, Sandy Headley, and the nurses of
Leander ISD, thank you for your unwavering and continual support.

Tenetivly a Memorial Service has been planned for Thursday July 9th at 11:00 am
at Palm Valley Lutheran Church 2500 E. Palm Valley Blvd. Round Rock, Texas with
Reverend Peggy Adams officiating.

David expressed his wish that in lieu of flowers, gifts could be made in his
name to any of the of the following:

Victory Junction Gang. Donate online @ www.victoryjunction.org or mail to
Victory Junction Gang 4500 Adam's Way, Randleman, N.C. 27317

Gladys Porter Zoo- Free Flight Aviary. Donate online @ www.gpz.org or mail to
Gladys Porter Zoo 500 Ringgold Street, Brownsville, Texas 78520

Caringbridge. Donate online @ www.caringbridge.org

Pancan. Donate online @ www.pancan.org

Betty June Poole Faber

Betty June Poole Faber, age 73, of Pflugerville, Tex., passed away Thursday,
July 2, 2009, at the St. David's North Austin Medical Center in Austin, Texas.

Mrs. Faber was born on October 14, 1935, in Princeton, IL, the daughter of
Harvey and Mary (George) Poole. She attended Van Orin schools. She was united in
marriage to Norman Faber on June 14, 1953. They were married for 31 years. She
was a devoted wife and mother, and a long-time member of First Baptist Church of
Princeton. She moved to Texas in 1985, where she lived in Austin, Dallas and San
Antonio, Texas. She retired in 1998.

She is survived by two sons, David (Deb) Faber, and Richard (Tammy) Faber of
Princeton, IL; five daughters, Debora (Gary) Cartwright of Princeton, IL, Cheryl
Moseley of Pflugerville, Tex., Barbara (Nils) Larson of Austin, Tex., Colleen
(Bill) Nash of Herriman, UT, and Patricia (Doug) White of Round Rock, Tex.; 12
grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren. She is preceded in death by her
parents.

A visitation will be held Sunday, July 5, 2009, from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. A
service celebrating her life will be conducted on Monday at 1:00 p.m. All
services will be located at Cook-Walden Capital Parks Funeral Home in
Pflugerville, Texas. Pastor David Walther will officiate. Interment will be at
Cook-Walden Capital Parks Cemetery. Memorial should be directed to the American
Cancer Society in her name.

Wynona Parker Fallwell

Wynona Parker Fallwell beloved wife, mother, sister, grandmother and
great-grandmother passed away Friday, July 3, 2009 at the age of 85.

Wynona loved cake decorating, needlepoint, volunteering, Sundays at KLCC,
friends and family. Wynona lived her entire life in the Austin area and
witnessed the many changes in her community from the boys going to war and
returning, to the renaming of Town Lake in honor of one her favorite heroes,
Ladybird. She also spent many hours in the Del Valle area teaching and mentoring
kids.

Wynona is preceded in death by her husband, Lyle Fallwell, her parents and her
sister, Mary Rejent.

She is survived by her son Michael Fallwell and wife Jennifer; daughter Michele
Hawthorne and husband Dudley; grandchildren, Jessica Istre and husband John,
Brian Hawthorne and Erin Hawthorne; great-grandchild, Nathan Istre and sister;
June Miller and husband Ret. Lt. Col Al Miller, and several loving nieces and
nephews.

The family would like to thank the numerous loving people who touched Wynona's
life over the years, especially her dear friend, Pauline, and those in her KLCC
family.

Visitation will be Monday, July 6, 2009, from 6:00 - 8:00 p.m at
Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home, 2620 S. Congress, Austin, Texas 78704.

Funeral services will be held Tuesday, July 7, 2009, at 10:00 a.m. at the Koenig
Lane Christian Church (KLCC) with Pastor Dan Owen officiating.

Graveside Service will be held Wednesday, July 8, 2009, at 10:15 a.m., at Ft.
Sam Houston National Cemetery, San Antonio, Texas.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made in memory of Wynona
Parker Fallwell, to Koenig Lane Christian Church, 908 Old Koenig Lane, Austin,
Texas 78756.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Matthew Ryan Frazee

Matthew Ryan Frazee, 26, lost his courageous battle with leukemia on June 30,
2009. He was born April 9, 1983, in Houston, Texas, to Douglas Alan Frazee and
Renee Elizabeth Frazee Wright. On May 28, 2005, Matthew was united in marriage
with the love of his life, Kali Joe Fischer, in Austin, Texas.

Matthew was a 2001 graduate of Katy High School, where he was a proud member of
the 2000 Texas State Division II Champion Katy Tiger Football team. He received
his Bachelor of Science in Political Science with a minor in Philosophy from Sam
Houston State University in 2006. Matthew was accepted to the South Texas School
of Law for the fall semester, 2008, but his attendance was deferred due to his
leukemia diagnosis.

For the past year, Matthew bravely struggled through numerous chemotherapy
treatments, clinic visits, hospital admissions and a bone marrow transplant in
his determination to be cured of acute myelogenous leukemia. With all he
endured, Matthew never complained and never gave up despite overwhelming odds
and continuous setbacks. Throughout his illness, his only concern was for the
hardship his illness placed on his wife and family. In his passing no one could
say that Matthew was anything less than a true hero.

Matthew is survived by his loving wife, Kali Joe Frazee, father Douglas Alan
Frazee, mother and stepfather Renee and Mitchell Wright, sister Erin Christine
Frazee, brother Joshua Alan Frazee, in-laws Keven and Cindy Fischer,
grandparents Richard and Shirley Foley, grandmother Jo Frazee, aunts Monica
Farina, Leslie (David) Gipson and Karen Frazee, uncles David (Barbara) Frazee
and Duncan (Cindy) Frazee, and cousins Jessica (Clint) Cooley, Steven (Amber)
Frazee, Nicholas Foley, William Farina, and Kirby Gipson. He was preceded in
death by his grandfather, Bruce K. Frazee.

A memorial service celebrating Matthew's life will be held on Monday, July 6,
2009 at 2:00 pm at Pines Presbyterian Church, 12751 Kimberley, Houston, Texas
77024.

The Matthew Frazee Memorial Fund has been established at Compass Bank, 3500 West
Davis, Suite 100, Conroe, TX 77304. Over the next few weeks the family will
determine how funds can best be used to provide a significant and measurable
benefit to others, while serving as a lasting and meaningful tribute to
Matthew's life. Alternatively, Matthew would have been pleased by a donation to
any charity of your choice in his memory.

Isobel S. Hanover

Isobel Sayers Hanover was born December 17, 1928 in Houston and died June 19,
2009 in Austin. She is survived by her children Tommy (Sylvia) Hanover, Dianne
(Mark) Puckett and Yvonne (Larry) Boatner. Her grandchildren: Christie, Greg,
Cody, Trey, J. Grady and Tinsey Hanover, Bryan Puckett, Lisa Davenport and Logan
Boatner. And her great-grandchildren: Kayla, Cuatro, Jeremy and Kendall Hanover,
Allie and Brady Puckett and McKenzie and Benjamin Davenport. She was preceded in
death by a son, Billy Jim Hanover.

Isobel attended the University of Texas, Southwestern University and returned to
St. Edward's well into her 60's. While at UT she fell in love with Austin.

She was the owner of a dress shop "Isobel's Sportswear" during the last 50's and
60's and was the co-owner of Hanover Building Materials for many years. She was
active in many organizations including The Austin Assn. of Home Builders
Auxiliary, the VFW Auxiliary, The NW Austin Republican Women but none meant more
to her than her special group of friends the Ya-ya's.

Isobel was a special lady that touched the lives of many people. She had many
good friends that she treasured. Her grandchildren were her pride and joy. She
was able to stay in her home and have her beloved yard till the end. She still
enjoyed playing bridge, following Logan's golf, keeping the books for Paper
Trends and was an avid reader. Mom loved dogs, traveling and her family has many
fond memories of time spent with her in Port Aransas.

Memorials may be made in Isobel's honor to the Williamson County Humane Society
or the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center.

A memorial celebrating Isobel's life will be held Saturday, July 11th at 1:30 PM
at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Velma Lou LeBlanc Lequeux

March 20, 1924 - June 29, 2009

and

Malcolm Francis Lequeux

January 4, 1919 - June 5, 2009

Velma Lou LeBlanc Lequeux, 85, passed away on June 29, 2009, in Austin, TX. She
was born to Julius Clersay LeBlanc and Stella Viator LeBlanc on March 20, 1924,
in Port Arthur, TX. Lou married Malcolm Francis Lequeux on June 25, 1944, in
Port Arthur. She was preceded in death by her parents and her husband, Malcolm,
who passed away June 5, 2009.

Survivors include her sister, Trilby LeBlanc Arceneaux; children, Blayne Lequeux
and wife Barbara, Diane Lequeux Van Kempen and husband Jay, Lydia Lequeux
Dombrowski and ex- husband Donald, and Julie Lequeux Ewald and husband John;
grandchildren, Karen Lequeux Pfeifer and husband Daren, David Lequeux and wife
Elizabeth Foo, Suzanne Lequeux, Tracey Van Kempen, Katherine Dombrowski and
husband George McCullough, Elizabeth Dombrowski, John Ewald and wife Brigid
Spackman, and Jennifer Ewald Green and husband Matthew; and
great-granddaughters, Beth and Sarah Green.

Lou grew up in Erath, LA. She was the first in her family to receive a high
school diploma, graduating from Erath High School in 1940 at the age of 16. In
1943, she earned a BA from Southwestern Louisiana Institute (now University of
Louisiana, Lafayette), and in 1965, she received a Master's of Education from
Lamar University.

Lou left a legacy of learning and a passion for music. She was proud that all of
her children and grandchildren earned college degrees. She encouraged and
patiently endured her children's many hours practicing piano and band
instruments. She was her children's greatest cheerleader!

For 23 years, Lou was a dedicated music, P.E. and classroom teacher in the Port
Arthur Independent School District. Velma Lou and Malcolm were active members of
St. Theresa Catholic Church and Bible Study Fellowship in Austin. Lou remained
involved in the Delta Kappa Gamma honorary teaching fraternity, and in both the
Texas and the Austin Retired Teachers Associations. The Texas Secretary of State
recognized her work as an active member of Project Vote (1991-1994). She served
both as legislative chair and president of the Austin chapter of the American
Association of Retired Persons (AARP).

Lou was an avid photographer and dancer. Beginning with her first Kodak Brownie
camera, Lou "recorded the moment," sending annotated prints to everyone in her
photos. Lou and Mac attended monthly Sunday jazz sessions of the Austin
Traditional Jazz Society, of which she was named "official photographer" and
life member. She also participated in Line Dancing, "Gayla's Gals," and
Jazzercise for over 30 years. Her philosophy was "If you can dance, you can have
fun everywhere." She continued to dance and move with the music throughout her
life.

The family offers their deepest appreciation for the warm care provided to Velma
Lou by the many doctors, nurses and caregivers from Westminster Manor Health
Care Center, The Medical Team, DaVita Dialysis Center, Seton Hospital, and Heart
to Heart Hospice. We are particularly indebted to Melwyn Cypress, who was
devoted to both Velma Lou and Malcolm for three years.

A memorial mass for Lou and Malcolm will be held on August 1, 2009, at Our Lady
of Lourdes Catholic Church, in Erath, LA. They will be interred in the church
cemetery.

In lieu of flowers, the family suggests donations be made in Velma Lou's name to
the Kidney Foundation, 30 E. 33rd St. New York, NY 10016, www.kidney.org/
support/makegift/index.cfm, or to the charity of your choice.

Obituary and guestbook available online @ www.wcfish.com

Regina Gayle Madani

Regina Madani, age 62, left this world peacefully and ascended to heaven,
without pain and with loved ones at her bedside on Wednesday, July 1, 2009.
Regina was born on August 23, 1946 in Austin, Texas, graduated from Sidney
Lanier high school in 1963 and completed her Bachelor's Degree from St. Edward's
University. Among other things she was a painter, a poet, a restauranteur, a
mother, a father and a civil servant. Regina was a proud member of Round Rock
Chapter #316, Order of the Eastern Star for more than twenty years, including
her service as Past Worthy Matron.

Gayle is survived by her mother and Past Worthy Matron Lillian J. Warren, son
Jon Madani and wife Nancy, son Omar Madani and wife Shari, six grandchildren and
one great-grandchild. She was preceded in death by her father Melvin C. Warren
and her sister Wynona K. Warren.

The family will receive friends Monday, July 6th at 2:00 p.m. for a memorial
service to celebrate Regina's life, at St. Augustine's Anglican Catholic Church,
100 East Wilbarger Street in Pflugerville, Texas. Arrangements are under the
direction of Beck Funeral Home in Pflugerville, 251-3500. She will be laid to
rest in a private ceremony next to family members in Liberty Hill, Texas.

The family wishes to thank the compassionate professionals at North Austin
Medical Center, Cornerstone Rehabilitation Hospital and Hospice of Austin.

Dorothy Nell Matthews

Feb. 22, 1936 -June 30, 2009

On Tuesday, June 30, 2009 our beautiful wife, loving mother, wonderful
grandmother, and dear friend went to heaven to be with her Lord. She will be met
in Glory by her parents, 2 sisters, 2 brothers, and many friends. Her husband of
56 years, Deacon Samuel Matthews, 2 children, 2 grand children, 1 sister, 1
brother, and many who loved her will keep Dorothy's memory alive.

Services will be on Tuesday, July 7, 2009 at 11:00 a.m. at St. James Baptist
Church. The burial will follow at Cook-Walden Capital Parks in Pflugerville,
Texas. Viewing will be held on Monday from 11:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. at King-
Tears Mortuary. Dorothy has moved on to Glory, but will forever be in our
hearts. (Services entrusted to King-Tears Mortuary, Inc., 1300 east 12th Street,
Austin, TX).

Wanda Pool

Wanda Perillia Kelley was born on December 2, 1929 in Coleman County, Texas, the
second of six children to Hazel and Timothy Kelley. Wanda passed into the arms
of our Lord on July 3, 2009. She was preceded in death by her parents and five
brothers; Ed, Bobby, Sonny, Skeeter and Pat. Wanda and her older brothers grew
up during the depression in the "Four Corners" area of 2222 while their father
worked on the Mansfield Dam, later farming and working together in the Manor
area.

Love, devotion and creativity defined Mother's life. At the age of 14 she met
Thomas Brady Pool, the young man who was to become the love of her life. Upon
Brady's return from the service in World II, they were married and thus began
the beautiful, romantic and supportive relationship that defined both of their
lives for more than 62 years. To this union was born four children, William
Lewis, Kathy, Tom and Rebekah. The love and devotion that Wanda and Brady gave
each other was shared by and was an inspiration to their children,
grandchildren; John Guentzel, Melissa Pool, Jolie Kristen, Michelle Breehl,
Philip Pool, Sarah Pool Barrows, Tommy Pool, Billy Pool, Amy Chovanec and Jacob
Boesch; ten great-grandchildren and many others.

Mother loved to dance with her beloved husband especially at the Broken Spoke.
She nurtured family and flowers, loved Elgin sausage and barbequed ribs. Mother
was multi-talented; a seamstress, fantastic cook, architectural designer for
homes her Fire Chief husband built. Mother is best remembered for her love and
compassion. As our beautiful, loving wife, mother and grandmother lay on her
hospital bed in her last moment in life, she was surrounded by her grandchildren
who held hands and shared love and beautiful memories of MeMaw. They, as well as
everyone else whose life she touched, know she was the sweetest person who ever
lived.

The family will receive friends at Harrell Funeral Home on Monday from 2:00
until 3:00 p.m. Funeral services will follow. Burial will be at Live Oak
Cemetery.

Dr. Andy Shepherd

Dr. Andy Shepherd, 70, of Lago Vista, Tex., and Vail, CO, died June 29, 2009,
after battling leukemia. Born September 13, 1938, in Clinton, Iowa, to Dr. I.A.
Shepherd and Dr. Christine Shepherd, he lived most of his youth in lowa and
Illinois. Graduating from the University of Texas and then Palmer College of
Chiropractic, he followed both parents and his brother into the chiropractic
profession. He practiced NUCCA chiropractic for forty years at the same location
in Austin, Texas. Patients knew him for his dedication to perfection and
uncompromising preciseness in the work in which he so fervently believed.

Above all else, Andy was a devoted family man. His family was his great joy and
he was always there for support and guidance. Beloved in return, there was
always at least one daughter constantly at his side during all the long hours
and weeks that he was hospitalized fighting AML.

He is survived by his loving wife, Harriet, and their four daughters, Susan
(Shep) Landy and husband Mike Landy of Plano, Tex.; Jennifer Amerkhail and
husband Rahim Amerkhail of Washington, DC; Amanda Shepherd of Washington, DC;
and Kristin Shepherd of Vail, CO. He is also survived by his brother, Dr. Irv
Shepherd and wife Catherine of Kingsland, Tex., and one nephew, Dr. Dean
Shepherd and wife Stacy of Plano, Texas.

All his life, Andy had a great love for nature and the outdoors. He liked to
swim, canoe and windsurf on Lake Travis and he thrived on the beautiful
surroundings in Vail, CO, where he and his wife spent their summers hiking,
golfing and watching the multitude of wildlife. His ashes will be scattered in
these mountains that he grew to love so much.

A memorial service will be held on Thursday, July 9, 2009, at 2:00 p.m., at
Cook-Walden Funeral Home, 6100 North Lamar, Austin, TX, 512-454-5611.

The family appreciates the outpourings of love and support from patients and
friends. They also wish to thank the staff at Lighthouse Hospice, located in
Round Rock, Tex., for their outstanding service during his stay there.

In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Lighthouse Hospice, 2913
Williams Dr., Suite 320, Georgetown, TX 78628; or to the National Upper Cervical
Chiropractic Association Foundation, http://www.ucrf.org/donate/donate-now

James J. Shope, Jr.

On Thursday July 2, 2009, James J. Shope, Jr., known to family and friends as
"Jim," lost his three year battle with Mesothelioma. Jim was born on February 5,
1953 in Borger, Texas and after living overseas as a child and teenager,
graduated from UT at Austin with a bachelor's degree in Political Science in
1979. He was a lifelong fan of the Texas Longhorns as well as the Houston
Astros. He was passionate about politics, a fiercely competitive table tennis
player, and always lived life to the fullest.

He was preceded in death by his parents, James J. Shope, Sr. and Marjorie Shope
Wootton. He is survived by his wife Jan Collins Shope; son, James J. Shope III
and partner Sondra Throop; son, Cory Austin Shope and partner Victoria Platt;
step-daughter, Joelle Brochtrup; step-son, Jacob Brochtrup; brother, Bill Shope;
sister, Michelle Francis and husband Pat; nephews, Bill Shope Jr. and Ricky
Francis; along with many, many friends. We are grateful that his love will be
with us always.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Mesothelioma Applied Research
Foundation (www.curemeso.org). A tribute to his life will be held at his home in
Spicewood, TX at 4:00 p.m., Sunday, July 12, 2009.

Yvonne Jumel Simms

Dec. 2, 1912 - June 20, 2009

Yvonne J. Simms, a native of New Orleans, LA, died peacefully of natural causes
in her 97th year after a long and happy life. Yvonne received her BA Degree from
Newcomb College at Tulane University in 1934. Following graduation, Yvonne was
Curator of the Medical Museum at Louisiana State University Medical School.

She married her late husband, Dr. Benjamin F. Simms, on April 16, 1943. In 1951,
they and their daughters, Cicily and Shelley, moved to Austin, TX. While there,
Yvonne was President of Seton Hospital Auxiliary and the Medical Auxiliary,
taught Sunday school at Good Shepherd Episcopal Church and served as a Girl
Scout Leader.

In the late 1950s, she and her husband discovered Carmel and the Monterey
Peninsula, which they began to visit regularly. In the late 1960s, the family
began to spend every August in Carmel and, in 1977, their dream came true when
they moved permanently to Carmel.

Yvonne and Ben volunteered with Meals on Wheels and enjoyed their membership at
Rancho Canada playing golf almost daily until 1999. They had many friends in
Carmel and entertained and traveled with their Peninsula friends and neighbors.
Yvonne was President of the Carmel Women's Club and was a member of the Carmel
Foundation and the Church in the Forest.

Yvonne's family wishes to thank her wonderful helpers, Paul Waters, Linda
Tillett, Aloma Cutkelvin and, more recently, Angela Hudson and Janet Barlese.
Their care enabled her to remain in her home and lead a full and happy life.
They also thank Dr. Craig Christensen and his nurse, Pat Nickerson, Dr.
Alejandro Centurion and Hospice of the Central Coast.

Yvonne's beloved Ben preceded her in death in 2007. She is survived by her
daughters, Cicily (Paul Balmuth) Simms of Austin and Shelley Simms of
Washington, DC; her sister, Mignon Jumel of New Orleans; her sister-in-law,
Marie Jumel of Metairie, LA, her grandson, Benjamin Lance Corsbie of San
Francisco and his siblings, Christopher (Brandi) Corsbie, Justin (Allison)
Corsbie, Amber (Jim Strupp) Brand, Geoffrey Guynn and Mercedes (Chris) Gray. Her
brothers, Bidwell and Allen Jumel, also predeceased her.

A Celebration of Her Life will take place at Church in the Forest in Pebble
Beach on Saturday, August 1. Contributions are suggested to the church at 3152
Forest Lake Rd., Pebble Beach, 93953 or to the Carmel Foundation, PO Box 1050,
Carmel, 93921. Please visit www.thepaulmortuary.com to sign Yvonne's guest book
and leave condolences for her family.

Matthew Irvin Taylor

Matthew Irvin Taylor, age 39 passed away in his beloved Family Home Thursday,
June 4, 2009 in Austin.

Matthew was born March 25, 1970 in Austin, Texas, a deeply adored son of Glenn
Estes Taylor and Martha Elaine Davis Taylor; and the baby brother of Michael D.
Fain and Douglas Wilson Fain Jr.

Matthew was preceded in death by Mother Martha Elaine Davis Taylor; Father Glenn
Estes Taylor; and Brother Douglas Wilson Fain Jr.

Matthew is survived by his Son Kristian Avery Taylor Chambers ('Noah') of
Austin, Texas; wife Renee; his Brother and sister in-law Michael and Patti Fain
of Sarita, Texas; and his other loving relatives of East Texas, Austin, Sarita
and Louisiana.

Graveside services will be in Jena, Louisiana on Saturday, June 11, 2009 at the
Coon Family Cemetery. Condolences at Legacy.com

David Lee Thorson

Memorial services for David Lee Thorson, 68, of Lincoln, Texas, are scheduled
for 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, July 9, 2009, at the First Presbyterian Church in
Giddings, with Rev. Chris Harrison officiating.

Mr. Thorson passed away Wednesday, July 1, 2009, at Warm Springs Rehabilitation
Center in Luling, Texas, following an extended illness.

David Lee Thorson was born December 20, 1940, in Beloit, Wisconsin, to Louis and
Hazel (Hanson) Thorson. On December 20, 1958 he married Virginia Fields. He was
retired from LCRA where he had been employed as a machinist. He currently
enjoyed ranching.

Mr. Thorson was preceded in death by his parents, Louis and Helen Thorson; his
brothers, Donald Thorson and Richard Thorson and his sisters, Dorothy Thorson
and Barbara Neilsen.

He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Virginia Thorson of Lincoln, Tex.; his
children, Charles Thomas Thorson of Austin, Tex., and Kristin Smith and husband
Glenn of Lincoln, Tex.; brother, Bill Thorson and wife Elona of Beloit,
Wisconsin; sisters, Delores Williams and husbnd Tom of Keller, Tex., Betty
Lampher and husband Sonny of South Beloit, Illinois, and Nancy Mellen of Beloit,
Wisconsin; grandchildren: Myles Smith, Colby Smith, Bailee Smith and Charlisse
Thorson; foster brother, Bill Nelson and wife Wilma of Lakewood, Ohio, as well
as numerous nieces and nephews also survive.

The family is requesting that memorial donations be made to First Presbyterian
Church, Giddings, Texas.

Arrangements entrusted to Phillips & Luckey, Giddings, Texas,
www.phillipsandluckeygiddings.com

In Loving Memory of

Jose Angel Cruz

July 6, 1979 - June 14, 2007

Happy Birthday from your family. Darn, Bro, it's been two years since you've
gone and yet it feels as if it was only yesterday. Can't forget the picture of
seeing you getting laid down in the ground. I miss you big Brother and I know
Mom, Mya, and Blanca Angel miss you too. I never gave up on you. Wish you were
here. One day we will meet up again and it will be me and you all over again.
ëTil that time comes, keep watching over me and your family.

Your little brother, Michael

In Loving Memory

Olivia Cortez Rivera

Nov. 13, 1925 - July 5, 2008

If Tears Could Build A Staircase

And Heartache Build A Lane

We'd Walk the Path To Heaven

And Bring You Back Again

Love Grandpa, The Hidrogos

and Families

In Loving Memory of

Addie V. Perryman

April 13, 1936 - July 5, 2004

Wife, mother, grandmother and friend. On this day God had taken you home. With
broken hearts, we love you and miss you.

Husband, family and friends

In Loving Memory of

George Guerra

Feb. 23, 1948 - July 5, 2007

We miss you everyday!

We still talk about you often.

We see so much of you in your

grandchildren, it makes us

smile. We will not forget the

memories.

Hit a hole in one today!

We love you very much!

Creekmore Fath

1916 - 2009

Memorial services will be held at 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, July 9, 2009, at
Weed-Corley-Fish North Lamar.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 4, 2009 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Political climate finally might make bipartisan commission welcome

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 361 words


Maybe this is the year. For 15 years, state Sen. Jeff Wentworth, R-San Antonio,
has been trying to get the Legislature to end the partisan bloodshed over
redistricting by creating a bipartisan commission to do the job.

Each year he gets a little closer. In 2005, his bill got through the Senate but
too late for House action. In 2007, the bill passed the Senate by a 2-1 margin,
and Wentworth's poll showed it would survive the House. But it died in committee
without a vote.

"It's important to note," Wentworth explained, "that from 1994 to 2007, every
witness who testified has been in favor of it."

Recent events makes Wentworth hopeful that the bill will finally get to the
governor, who has said he supports such a commission. Foremost is the lingering
resentment from the 2003 redistricting debacle that ate up the regular session
and three special sessions, saw Democratic lawmakers flee the state twice and
cost $2.3 billion in legal bills.

Also, last year's voting showed an electorate fed up with bitter partisan
bickering. Wentworth's bill, prefiled as SB 315, would be tangible evidence of
both sides reaching across the aisle to effect positive change.

Under the bill, a nine-member commission would consist of two members appointed
by the House majority, two by the House minority party, two by the Senate
majority party and two by the Senate minority. The ninth member, appointed by
the other eight, would preside but not vote.

None of the commission members could hold elective or party office or actively
participate in party or electoral politics while on the commission.

Their primary duty would be to draw congressional districts after the 2010
census. Wentworth said the commission couldn't draw state legislative districts
because that is in the state Constitution and would require approval of 100
House members.

"I can't get 100 votes out of the House," he said. "I would be pleased to get 76
votes out of the House for congressional redistricting."

Wentworth has a lot of support for his bill. So maybe this is the year that
Texas joins six other states and creates a bipartisan commission to do the
thankless work of drawing up congressional districts.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 5, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THE TWO MINUTE DRILL

BYLINE: Art Moore

SECTION: GAMEDAY; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 534 words


FIESTA 101

In an age when anyone with a big enough check can get a bowl game, it's hard to
fathom how much work went into getting the Fiesta Bowl started.

The game's roots go back to 1968, when Phoenix civic leaders, frustrated that
Arizona State was being bypassed by bowls, decided to get a game of their own.
The NCAA had approved only one bowl during the 1960s - the Peach Bowl - and had
rejected several other bids.

To strengthen their case, the bowl backers secured a tie-in with the Western
Athletic Conference (of which ASU was then a member) and pledged to make their
game a charitable venture. But in April 1970, the NCAA Council rejected the
Fiesta and five other bowl bids.

The Fiesta's presentation, though, impressed enough folks that a year later, the
NCAA gave its approval. ASU beat Florida State 45-38 in the inaugural game in
1971. The payout: $168,237 per team.

The Fiesta has seldom stood still. The game has been played on Christmas Day,
then later New Year's Day (which required another wrangle with the NCAA). It
scored a coup with the Miami-Penn State national championship matchup in 1986,
won by Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions 14-10. It absorbed control of the Insight
Bowl. It gained enough stature that it became part of the Bowl Coalition, which
begat the Bowl Alliance, which led to the BCS.

And you can credit (or blame) the Fiesta for starting the corporate sponsorship
that permeates every bowl game now. In 1985, it struck a deal with Sunkist
Growers and began calling itself the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl.

BOWLED OVER

With 31 games down and only three more to go, we offer a few observations on
bowl season. And no, we didn't watch every game, or all of the games we did tune
in, because we love the wife and kids and want them to stick around.

* Teams from cold weather areas love bowls since most of them are played in
warmer climates. So how did Florida Atlantic feel about going from Boca Raton to
Detroit? Just fine, apparently, since the Owls beat Central Michigan.

* There's nothing quite like watching all the ads for game sponsors that you'll
never see otherwise. While we won't be doing business with the San Diego County
Credit Union, we duly noted their community spirit. Then there are the ads for
local tourism boards. Orlando, Las Vegas, South Florida and San Diego all look
good to us. No visit to Shreveport, La., or Birmingham, Ala., planned anytime
soon, though.

* At first we thought those lush green playing fields were a result of a
long-overdue upgrade to a high-def TV. Then we noticed the numerous uniform
stains. This offseason, we're going to try to corner the market on grass paint.

* The replay review process needs to be sped up. How about a 90-second time
limit: if you can't figure out if a call is right or wrong in that time, it's
seems to us there isn't enough evidence to change it.

* Those of you who love to bash the Pac-10 can stop now. The West Coast boys
went 5-0 in bowls and played some pretty good defense. QB Mark Sanchez, below,
and Southern Cal dominated Penn State, Oregon laid some hits on Oklahoma State
and Arizona contained BYU's ballyhooed QB Max Hall. Yeah, that 3-0 Sun Bowl win
by Oregon State was ugly, but it still counts.

- Art Moore

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 27, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 216 words


SOFTWARE

Hyper9 adds industry veteran Maples to board

Hyper9 Inc. said Thursday that tech industry veteran Mike Maples Sr. will join
its board of directors.

Maples is a former Microsoft Corp. executive who lives in Austin. He has also
held senior positions at IBM Corp. and NetIQ Corp., among other companies.

Three-year-old Hyper9 makes software to manage virtualization systems.

The company has raised $16.5 million in two investment rounds, including $8
million in its most recent round of that it plans to use to launch and market
its product.

Hyper9's backers include Venrock, Matrix Partners, Silverton Partners and Maples
Investments, which is run by a Maples son, Mike Maples Jr.

Borland sees quarterly loss double, revenue dip

Austin-based Borland Software Corp. said its fourth-quarter loss more than
doubled from a year earlier, as revenue fell 11 percent.

Acting CEO Erik Prusch said the "difficult economic climate" will affect the
company this year.

Borland said it would provide limited guidance for the first quarter, with
revenue in the range of $29 million to $34 million.

In the fourth quarter, the company lost $80.1 million, or $1.10 per share, on
revenue of $39.8 million.

A year earlier, it lost $39.5 million, or 54 cents per share, on revenue of
$44.6 million.

Compiled from staff reports

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Austin area can't sidestep recession's deep job cuts

BYLINE: Lori Hawkins AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1598 words


Two years ago, when chip design engineer Matt Genovese created a Web site called
door64.com to help Austin high-tech professionals network and share job leads,
he had no idea that one day he would need it himself.

But in February, Genovese was laid off from Freescale Semiconductor Inc., where
he had worked for 11 years. And now door64, which has 4,000 members, has become
a tool in his own job search.

"This is the first time I've been laid off, and I'm using all my networking
abilities to find a new job," says Genovese, 34. "There are a lot of engineers
out there who are looking right now. It's tough."

With its tech-heavy economy, Austin has become accustomed to booms and busts.

Semiconductor manufacturers have always hired, fired and rehired based on
business cycles. It took years for the region to recover from the tech crash
early in the decade, which wiped out a crop of Internet startups and left a wave
of unemployed tech workers in its wake.

But this downturn, which is in its 17th month, has had a far broader reach when
it comes to job cuts.

Layoffs have pounded a wide range of jobs, from top-level engineering positions
once considered golden to financial services, real estate and advertising.

Nationally, Microsoft Corp. is cutting jobs for the first time in its 22-year
history; the U.S. Postal Service is shedding workers, too. Retailers cut 500,000
jobs last year and have announced 100,000 more layoffs this year.

The unemployment rate in the construction industry is almost 21 percent, as home
builders continue to pull back and commercial construction stalls.

In Austin, many workers such as Genovese - who was recruited here in 1997 by
Motorola Inc. after earning a computer engineering degree from the Rochester
Institute of Technology - are navigating the unemployment maze for the first
time.

"There's a feeling that nobody is safe, and that's different than in the past,"
says Kathy Lansford, who is an employment specialist with WorkSource, a regional
job search agency, and runs a networking group, the Launch Pad Job Club.

"We're seeing a lot of layoffs from IBM and semiconductor companies, and also
architects, attorneys, executive-level managers and a large number of sales and
marketing folks. People who have never been through this before, people who
thought their jobs were secure," Lansford says.

The numbers tell the story: 54,500 workers in Central Texas were out of work in
March, compared with 32,900 a year ago, according to the Texas Workforce
Commission.

But despite the job hemorrhaging, there are signs that unemployment levels in
Central Texas could be leveling off.

The region had a 6.2 percent jobless rate in March, still near a five-year high
but down slightly from February. And Austin remains one of the few major metro
areas that are still adding jobs: 3,300, mostly in services, were added from
March 2008 to March 2009, according to the Workforce Commission. That's also up
slightly from the month before.

Some executive recruiters, including Ted Balistreri , executive vice president
and managing director of DHR International in Austin, say they see signs that
Austin's employment landscape may be changing, if ever so slightly. There
appears to be a slowdown in mass layoffs, they say, and a scattering of
companies are putting out hiring feelers.

"I'm just a little more hopeful," Balistreri says. "At the end of last year, I
would have said things were very dark. Now there's a glimmer of hope. It's a
small one, but it's there."

Slow rebound

In previous downturns, Austin - with its enviable combination of technology
employers, state government and the University of Texas - has bounced back with
minimal scarring. This time is different, says economic development consultant
Angelos Angelou.

"This recession is unlike any other we have had in recent memory, because it's
far deeper and it cuts across all sectors," Angelou says. "I don't see any
recovery into well into 2010, and it will be slow, and it will be jobless."

Angelou believes growth this year will be limited to health care, education and
government, with all other sectors seeing declines. Most of the new jobs, he
says, will be lower-paying services positions.

"I usually consider myself to be very optimistic, and we all want to be
optimistic, but I don't think we've hit bottom yet," he says, citing a rocky
commercial real estate market and expectations of further shakeout in the tech
industry. "Even when we do, we could stay there a while, because companies will
be very reluctant to ramp back up."

Austin startup Pixys Technology Inc. is an example of the reluctance.

The company, which sells software tools used by advanced chip designers, raised
$3 million in venture capital this month but has no immediate plans to expand
its 20-person staff. After cutting its work force by a quarter last year, CEO
Phil Bishop says, Pixys is focused on conserving cash.

"Once you've gone through a downsizing, you really don't want to go through that
again. In this market, everybody's got to generate a return. That means
stretching what you can do with your existing head count," he says.

Bishop says the decision has been difficult because he is hearing from highly
skilled engineers he would love to bring on.

"We're getting résumés from brilliant people, fantastic people that we would die
to hire," he says. "What I'm seeing is a massive unemployment of specialists
right now: engineers who have worked over the course of their careers on a
semiconductor design specialty, and now that specialty is gone.

"These were really good jobs that were $100,000 on the low end to $175,000 on
the high end. It's the kind of extremely high-quality talent we worked to
attract to Austin, and now nobody's expanding, and in some cases, those jobs are
gone permanently."

As employers resist filling high-paying jobs that include full benefits, many
workers are accepting part-time work or turning to consulting.

"The people we see just can't wait on the sidelines for a full-time offer," says
Allison Jenkins of Senior Work Solutions, which assists workers 45 and older to
find temporary work. "We encourage them to just get in the door and prove what
you can do. That's the best path to eventually landing on the payroll. Right
now, in many cases, it's the only path."

Networking resources

Lansford, the leader of the Launch Pad Job Club, is part cheerleader, part
counselor, part motivational speaker.

"We're seeing people who had really great jobs who never thought they would be
out of work, much less that they'd need some help finding a job," says Lansford,
who started the group in 2001 after she moved to Austin and couldn't find
employment.

When the free Friday morning meetings at an office off Interstate 35 North began
attracting more than 200 people for a room fit for 150, Launch Pad recently
added an afternoon gathering.

"My message is, this is too scary to do by yourself. You need to latch onto a
team. Just like if you were training for a marathon - you don't do it yourself.
On days it's rainy and cold and you don't want to get out of bed, you have to
get out there for your team," she says.

Lansford ticks off a list of networking opportunities, workshops, job fairs and
Web sites aimed at job seekers.

"Austin has so many more resources today than during the last bust, but you've
got to make an effort, or they won't do you any good," she says.

That's what Susan Philpot is trying to do.

Philpot, 59, lost her job as chief operating officer at a design company when
her division was closed in October, and she's been looking for work in human
resources or administrative management ever since.

"I'm going to job clubs and networking groups and calling people I've done
business with before and saying, 'Here's where I am, in a job transition. Do you
know of anything?'"

Still, there have been few leads. In recent months, she says she has drastically
cut personal expenses and moved in with a friend to save money. And the profile
of the job she wants has had to change.

"I've had to become very flexible and do temp work that's way below my range to
try to get some different experiences under my belt and see what might be in the
shadows that I'm not seeing," says Philpot, who has turned to Senior Work
Solutions for help finding temporary work.

"But I'll be honest that it's been exhausting and kind of depressing. I have a
lot of business experience I would love to use, and when no one wants it, you
start to question your value," she says.

For Genovese, the laid-off chip worker, losing his job is putting his belief in
the power of networking to the test.

"The reason I started door64 was to help engineers and tech folks build out
their professional networks. They don't usually have a good network of their
peers; it's likely to be just the people they work with. When it comes time to
find a job, all of a sudden, they're at a loss," he says.

His door64.com site includes testimonials from tech workers who have found jobs
through the site and its networking events, which are free. Now Genovese is
hoping for the same results.

"After working hard to build my own network, now I need it," says Genovese, who
is hoping to land another chip design job but is also considering consulting. "I
don't know what the future holds, but I feel optimistic."

lhawkins@statesman.com; 912-5955

A BROAD REACH
5.1 million
 Jobs lost nationwide since the recession began
663,000
U.S. jobs lost in March
8.5%
U.S. unemployment rate
6.2%
 Central Texas unemployment rate, almost a five-year high
3,300
 Jobs created in Central Texas from March 2008
to March 2009, down from 22,400 in the previous 12 months



LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Austin's got soul with local discs as different as whiskey and wine Headline 36
pt goes here plea in three lings

BYLINE: Patrick Caldwell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. H12

LENGTH: 1532 words


Nakia

'Water to Wine'

(Self)

HHHII

Black Joe Lewis & the Honeybears

'Tell 'Em What Your Name Is!'

(Lost Highway)

HHHHI

As any good bartender will attest, the secret to a good cocktail is the perfect
mix of sweet and strong, smooth and harsh. Good soul music is no different - the
most memorable soul artists blend the sweetly positive humanity of gospel with
the harsh kick of furious rhythm and blues.

To judge by that rubric, Austin's woefully underappreciated soul scene is in
good shape. The last month has seen debut full-lengths by two of the city's most
highly regarded up-and-comers: Nakia, the Alabama-raised crooner with the
full-throated voice, and Black Joe Lewis & the Honeybears, the garage soul octet
that delivers gritty garage soul with machine gun urgency. And though Black Joe
Lewis offers up the more compelling debut, both albums herald the emergence of
two major talents.

Thousands of Austinites might best recognize Nakia as the unassuming fellow
pulled on-stage for a dance with soul diva Sharon Jones at the Austin City
Limits Music Festival 2008. She's not the first genre devotee to see something
special in Nakia. His clean, authentic stylings also attracted the attention of
veteran local singer-songwriter Michael Fracasso, who co-wrote "Water to Wine."
Seasoned pro and shining newcomer complement each other nicely - Fracasso's keys
and roots rock sensibility are a perfect fit for Nakia's sugary Southern soul.

Punchy opener "Choose Your Poison" establishes the album's modus operandi:
catchy but not overpowering guitar riffs, Nakia's rich voice and lyrics that lay
bare the record's themes of discrimination, love, loss and spirituality. "On the
Bus" features an Otis Redding whistle, while "There Goes the Neighborhood" is a
dizzyingly brilliant array of instrumentation and insightful lyricism. The
slightly bitter "Elizabeth Lee" and "Outta My Head," meanwhile, are frustrated
odes to a lost love in the best tradition of Southern blues.

But the album's glossy, clean production occasionally overpowers its passion, as
on the antiseptic, biblical title track. Nakia's assembled a talented band and
might be Austin's most soulful singer this side of Malford Milligan, but a
handful of the tracks are oddly limp on the recording.

Black Joe Lewis' "Tell 'Em What Your Name Is!" provides an interesting contrast,
visceral and gritty as it is. If Nakia's album is a glass of wine, Black Joe
Lewis' debut is a shot of cheap whiskey - harsh, short-lived, edgy and entirely
intoxicating.

The album kicks off with the aptly titled "Gunpowder," an explosive homage to
the best of '70s Stax. Lewis follows with the call-and-response blues rocker
"Sugarfoot." The lyrics deal with familiar themes for soul: love, poverty and
debauchery. Lewis' cleverest song, "Get Yo (Expletive)," is an
unbelievable-sounding tale that begins with him forgetting his girlfriend's name
and closes with him evading the Austin Police Department. It's probably true.

But it's the cutting vocals, delivered with razor-sharp intensity and augmented
by the Honeybears' tight, riotous horns and guitar that make "Tell 'Em What Your
Name Is!" truly special. Despite its release on Lost Highway - reliable
purveyors of American roots - and production from Spoon's Jim Eno, it's an
infinitely rougher-sounding album than Nakia's "Water to Wine." Listen to it on
vinyl, with pops and hisses intact, and the album could easily be mistaken for a
time-lost refugee from soul's '70s heyday, a contemporary of James Brown or Baby
Huey. It's not a deep or terribly adventurous album, but it is reliably fun.

Nakia plays a CD release show at 8 p.m. Saturday at Jovita's, 1619 S. First St.
$8. 447-7825; nakia.net.

Willie Nile

'House of A Thousand Guitars'

(River House)

HHHHI

With "House of A Thousand Guitars," Willie Nile takes the next step on the
comeback journey that began with 2007's triumphant "Streets of New York." There
are no major stylistic departures or head-turning innovations in evidence,
however. Rather, the album's 12 tracks play to the singer-songwriter's longtime
strengths; meat-and-potatoes barroom rock, shot through with stylistic tips of
the hat to Springsteen, the Ramones, the Stones and Dylan, along with a mix of
close-to-the-vest personal portraits and big, sweeping anthems.

That it all sounds as cohesive as it does is a minor-league miracle. Nile pulled
together a six-pack of co-producers and utilized two distinctly different
musical ensembles in the creation of the album. Usually that many collaborators
signals insecurity on the part of an artist, but Nile seems to have kept
everybody pointed in the same direction.

The album opens with a bristling trio of rockers: the title track, which gives a
shout out to an entire Valhalla of guitar heroes; the headlong "Run," with its
echoes of "River"-era Springsteen, and the atmospheric "Doomsday Dance," which
wouldn't sound out of place in a Rolling Stones set list.

From there, the tracks diverge, from the bitterly pastoral chronicle of war's
toll in "Now That the War Is Over" to the call to arms of "Give Me Tomorrow" and
"Little Light" to the good-natured love-'em-and-lose-'em rockers, "Magdalena"
and "The Midnight Rose."

There are some flabby spots (does the world need more songs that compare love to
a runaway train or falling rain?), but overall "House of A Thousand Guitars" is
a mature and confident statement by a guy who, in the best sense of the phrase,
seems to be hitting his stride.

Recommended tracks: "House of A Thousand Guitars," "Give Me Tomorrow,"
"Magdalena"

- John T. Davis

Jadakiss

'The Last Kiss'

(Def Jam)

HHIII

Jadakiss first made a name for himself when his rap group LOX released a moving
tribute to their label mate Biggie Smalls. But in the decade since, rap has
increasingly shifted away from the New York mix-tape scene and its emphasis on
hardcore street rhymes. Or as Jadakiss tells it "rappers is more commercially
successful now but the heart's a lot weaker."

So how can one of Biggie's contemporaries remain relevant in 2009? The first
single "By My Side" features a hook from Ne-Yo and an appearance from Lil'
Wayne. But Ne-Yo and Wayne fans aren't going to remember a rapper who hasn't had
a new album in five years.

The previous Jadakiss album (2004's "Kiss of Death") was carried by the
unexpected success of "Why," an eclectic collection of rhetorical questions. So
he tries to catch lightning in a bottle twice with "What If," a duet with Nas
where they ponder Maya prophecies, Michael Vick and Hurricane Katrina.

Rather than actual songs, both singles are more like freestyles,
stream-of-consciousness raps where an artist is given license to ramble as long
as they produce the occasional witty line. There's a similarity to his years of
work on the mix-tape scene, where his raspy baritone made him a legend. But ask
him to carry an idea for four minutes and you're in trouble.

Most of "The Last Kiss" revolves around aimless tough talk and idle boasting
without any coherent song structure. So when Jadakiss does attempt something
different ("every good woman needs a thug") it's so out of place it seems
contrived. It's the same fundamental problem that ruined his previous two solo
albums, which even he admitted were uninspired. And in this climate, "The Last
Kiss" is probably his last chance.

Recommended tracks: "Grind Hard," "What If"

- Jonathan Tjarks

Death Cab for Cutie

'Open Door'

(Atlantic)

HHHII

We might not get another release like the "Open Door" from Death Cab for Cutie
for a while.

"All my friends are forward-thinking/Getting hitched and quitting drinking,"
frontman Ben Gibbard sings over an ocean of fuzzy bass on the standout "I Was
Once a Loyal Lover."

But given his recent engagement to actress Zooey Deschanel, it seems Gibbard has
joined his friends in the time since these tracks were written for last year's
full-length "Narrow Stairs." Soon he might not have a reason to vent over
ripples of melancholic clean guitar about the "bridges engulfed in flames"
behind him.

Forward-thinking aside, "Open Door" definitely feels connected to its
full-length counterpart. Its songs are musically upbeat yet lyrically
unsettling, and they have the same explosive quality that the live-tracked
"Narrow Stairs" sessions yielded.

And yet they justify their existence as a separate release. "Little Bribes" and
"A Diamond and a Tether" jaunt through a subtle twang that could fly in a
country dance hall, save the experimental undertones of the delayed guitar solo
in the latter. "My Mirror Speaks," meanwhile, marches through the kind of
melodic minor-chord sensibility evident on 2005's "Plans" in "Someday You Will
Be Loved."

Even Gibbard's solo ukulele rendition of "Talking Bird" contrasts starkly with
the "Narrow Stairs" version. The tempo remains slow, but the new version loses
the distinct smoky ambience created by the bass-driven drag of the album cut.

But while listening to "Open Door," you get a sense that you're not hearing
anything too groundbreaking. So maybe Gibbard's lyrical focus will shift, or
maybe the mood of the music will take an unexpected turn. But whatever the case,
it will most likely be a welcome change.

Recommended track: "I Was Once a Loyal Lover"

- Alex Daniel

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Chisum finds middle ground on environment

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1497 words


The sole rule at meetings of the carbon management caucus, organized by state
Rep. Warren Chisum, is that none of the 40 or so members may talk about global
warming.

"If we did," he said, "it'd consume all our time."

That rule gets at the political savvy of Chisum, a Panhandle Republican who was
stripped of his power as a budget writer but re-emerged as a pivotal player in
the future of Texas' energy economy.

With ever more likely federal rules limiting emissions of carbon dioxide, which
have been associated with global warming, Chisum has teamed up with Democrats
and some Republicans to make business-friendly proposals that would give
subsidies to companies that capture greenhouse gas emissions.

Chisum, in short, has sought out engagement with the federal government over
carbon dioxide rules even as some leading Republicans have taken a more
confrontational posture.

Gov. Rick Perry, for one, has warned against an activist Environmental
Protection Agency and said the greenhouse gas rules could derail the economy in
a state that is the nation's largest emitter of carbon dioxide.

But Chisum has avoided the politically divisive rhetoric of global warming,
which most Texas Republican leaders are unwilling to connect to emissions from
the state's power plants and manufacturing facilities.

Instead, he has focused on modest goals aimed at tamping down the state's carbon
emissions by dishing out tax breaks and other incentives to industries. The
proposals could save utilities and other industries money, depending on how
expensive carbon emissions become under federal limits, and could earn Texas
political credit as those limits are shaped.

"There's not much sympathy for Texas" in Washington, said Chisum, who said the
state should try to influence the shape of federal law. "We should try to get a
legitimate seat in any rule-making that the federal government is involved in
sooner rather than later."

On the face of it, Chisum, 70, came into the session a diminished figure. Under
former Speaker Tom Craddick he had controlled the state's purse strings as the
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. But this session, he was
assigned by Speaker Joe Straus to be vice chairman of the Environmental
Regulation Committee, which he chaired in the 1990s.

In that role he has served as a consigliere to state Rep. Byron Cook,
R-Corsicana, a key Straus supporter who, by his own admission, knew little about
the everyday issues that come before the committee.

Cook said that Chisum has "absolutely" served as an important counsel because he
"has a tremendous amount of institutional knowledge."

Those two lawmakers and the four Democrats now serving on the nine-member
committee have largely changed the panel from one that last session acted as a
roadblock to most proposals aimed at tightening environmental regulation to one
more likely to pass out such legislation, especially pieces of policy that come
out of the caucus.

That "was not the way to run an environmental committee," Chisum said. "We need
to listen to everyone and work with everyone."

Chisum and Cook have been polite and fair, said Jim Marston, head of the Austin
office of the Environmental Defense Fund. But he said the committee had yet to
act on a range of air quality bills that will test whether the politics of the
committee have shifted.

Chisum himself is the House sponsor of a measure by state Sen. Kirk Watson,
D-Austin, that would instruct the state to come up with ways to cut greenhouse
gas emissions that would save individuals and businesses money. The proposal,
which Watson calls a "no regrets" bill, passed out of the committee unanimously.

"He gets into the cubic feet of stuff," Watson said of Chisum's attention to
details.

Still, Chisum seems an unlikely champion of carbon legislation. He is a Southern
Baptist who in previous sessions has made controversial proposals such as a ban
on heterosexual sodomy and a mandate that married couples with children get
counseling before a divorce.

He has a mixed record from environmentalists' perspective, winning an award in
1999 from the Sierra Club for his efforts to thwart a radioactive waste landfill
but getting failing marks in 2007 from the Texas League of Conservation Voters .

"We've had a pretty good personal relationship with Chisum, but that doesn't
mean we've agreed on everything," said Ken Kramer, director of the Lone Star
Chapter of the Sierra Club.

In 2008, Chisum got $71,000, or 18 percent of total campaign contributions he
received, from energy companies, businesses and manufacturers opposed to
legislation addressing climate change - more than twice as much as anyone else
on the House Environmental Regulation Committee, according to an April report by
the National Institute on Money in State Politics.

But the oil-pumping and power plant interests in the Panhandle, which he has
represented since 1988, could be vulnerable to a federal crackdown on carbon
emissions. So Chisum began the carbon management caucus in January 2008 to come
up with ways to encourage the companies to capture their carbon dioxide and pump
it underground. The carbon dioxide can then be used to loosen and extract
hard-to-reach oil deposits. Such work has been done in the Permian Basin for
three decades.

"The whole purpose is to educate members about what carbon dioxide is, how it
works, how it's used for recovery of oil, and what we need to do as a state to
get ready for the lower-carbon society that the feds are going to push down on
us," he said.

Chisum, who has made his money as an oil and gas producer and rancher, said
proposals pushed by him and the caucus do not promote any single company and
said the bills would not enrich him personally.

He said the measures primarily affect utilities, since their coal-burning power
plants are among the major emitters of carbon dioxide.

Chisum said the caucus aims to get rules in place at the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, the Railroad Commission and the General Land Office for
carbon capture and sequestration, even if incentives rolled out by Chisum and
his allies are too low right now to get companies to invest in the capital
costs, given that oil is selling relatively cheaply.

One proposal by Chisum, for example, requires the land commissioner to work with
the University of Texas to study state-owned sections of the Gulf of Mexico
seafloor to identify locations for a carbon dioxide repository. The state
environmental agency would develop standards and rules for putting the carbon
dioxide underground. That proposal, which the Legislative Budget Board estimates
would cost $2.6 million over the next two years, passed unanimously out of the
Environmental Regulation Committee.

Caucus members get occasional briefings from environmentalists, scientists and
free-market think tanks.

They have capitalized on a peculiar political alliance of industries hoping for
subsidies fat enough to capture carbon dioxide and environmental groups
desperate to limit greenhouse gases.

"It's a strange alliance," Chisum said. "Oil companies are interested in a tax
advantage to do it, and environmental groups are learning that you can't wave a
magic wand and not have carbon emissions."

That alliance has led to pragmatism trumping ideology. For example, Rep. Phil
King, R-Weatherford, who disputes that carbon emissions have anything to do with
global warming, has filed a proposal to provide state incentives for underground
sequestration of carbon dioxide.

"I'm a pragmatist," said King, who has given a presentation to the caucus but
doesn't count himself as a member. "To bring down electric prices, we need to
build more coal and nuclear plants, and we can't build any more coal plants
unless we deal with carbon dioxide."

Yet unlike Chisum, King said Texas should fight proposals in Washington to limit
carbon dioxide emissions. The federal proposals amount to "a tax on energy" that
would "devastate the Texas economy, kill jobs and raise electricity prices," he
said.

Chisum has allies in the state Senate who also count themselves as pragmatists,
such as Kip Averitt, R-Waco, who chairs the Senate Natural Resources Committee.
He has filed a proposal that calls for Texas to tally its greenhouse gases and
has said Texas should negotiate federal carbon limits.

And Republican Reps. David Swinford and Wayne Christian have surfaced as leaders
of modest initiatives to develop alternative power sources, even as they stay
mum on global warming.

What gets passed by session's end might to a large degree depend on what Chisum
pushes through.

"He's one of the shrewdest members at working the legislative process," said
Rep. Mark Strama, D-Austin, a member of the carbon management caucus. "What's
impressed me is the way Warren is doing this to get at truth without politics or
ideology."

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Regional meets too expensive, many believe

BYLINE: Randy Riggs American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 893 words


Thirty-four Longhorns men and women begin competing today in an NCAA regional
track meet that many coaches hope soon will be extinct.

The Longhorns will join about 800 other athletes at the Midwest Regional in
Norman, Okla. It's one of four regions around the country that will determine
the field for the NCAA outdoor championships in mid-June.

After years of debate, the NCAA implemented the regional concept in 2003 to
replace the qualifying standards for the national meet that were previously
used.

Many coaches, primarily from larger programs with many athletes in contention
for nationals, howled.

"It's going to destroy this sport," Texas women's coach Bev Kearney said at the
time, in 2003. "There is absolutely no justification for it."

So, with the benefit of six years of hindsight, has Kearney changed her mind?

"Nope," she said earlier this week as her 14 athletes prepared for the meet. "I
still believe the regionals have not benefit ed the sport at all."

The regionals were initiated with the idea that they would provide an additional
spotlight on a sport that usually basks in the public limelight only during
Olympic years. Supporters also believed it would provide an NCAA-type
championship experience for athletes at smaller Division I schools who might not
otherwise receive it.

Coaches at many large programs argued that the extra meet was problematic on two
basic fronts - first, it created the possibility of injuries in a stressful
all-or-nothing quest, and second, it was a huge financial hit to provide room
and board for athletes for an additional two weeks, not to mention the travel
costs.

On the latter front, coaches now have a formidable ally that was missing in
2003. College administrators, in a strong cost-containment mode created by the
current economic crisis, are looking at numerous ways to pinch their pennies.

The regional concept cost - large programs like Texas and Texas A&M can spend
approximately between $60,000 and $90,000 - now has the attention of many
administrators.

"It's not just a track issue anymore," said A&M coach Pat Henry, president of
the national coaches association. "It's now a cost-containment issue, and that
will override anything we coaches think."

Henry strongly opposes the regional concept

"It's failed," he said. "Proponents said you can promote it, possibly televise
it, and get people to come out and watch it. Wrong. It hasn't happened."

The NCAA has called for the number of regional meets next season to be reduced
from four to two, divided into the east and west regions of the country. Texas
has put in a bid to host the West Regional, providing the regionals still exist.

"I don't think saying this kind of (economic) climate will be the cause for
doing away with regionals," Texas men's coach Bubba Thornton said. "But it gives
us an opportunity to make a change. It can be driven by cost-containment."

The Big 12, Atlantic Coast Conference and Pac-10 have formally urged the NCAA to
eliminate regionals for financial reasons.

"We already have our track championships and have the times and our kids
qualified," Big 12 commissioner Dan Beebe said recently at the league's spring
meetings. "And then we have to run off and spend thousands of more dollars
sending kids who are going to be in a regional situation, just so less qualified
youngsters get a chance to run against them."

Wake Forest coach Annie Schweitzer Bennett, the ACC representative to the NCAA's
Division I track and field committee, said the group's feelings about the
regionals are "a mixed bag."

"Some (committee) members like (regionals), some don't," said Schweitzer
Bennett, an NCAA champion distance runner at Texas in the mid-1980s who believes
the concept has worked well for Wake Forest. "But if I was at a different
university, would I like it the same? Maybe not."

Kearney said the tide for regional support is "most definitely" changing.

"Too few have benefit ed and too many have felt penalized by it," she said.
"Everybody's looking for ways to cut costs and maintain their sports without
cutting sports. Here we are adding a huge expense to the schedule, and for what?

"I just don't know why we're doing what we're doing," Kearney added. "I can't
figure us out, and I'm in the sport."

rriggs@statesman.com; 445-3957

Midwest regional
 What: NCAA track and field regional
 When: Today-Saturday
 Where: Norman, Okla.
 Texas entries: Men - Trevante Rhodes (100), Danzell Fortson (400), Tevan
Everett (800*), Jacob Hernandez (800), Tevas Everett (800), Mike Carmody (800),
 Kyle Miller (1,500), Patrick Todd (1,500), Jake Morse (steeplechase*), Rob
Wetzel (steeplechase), Victor Gras (5,000), Elliott O'Hare (110 hurdles),
Raymond Harris (high jump), Devon Bond (high jump, triple jump), Maston Wallace
 (pole vault), Will Paine (pole vault), Doug Moppert (long jump), Brandon
Drenon (shot put, discus), Jacob Thormaehlen (shot put), Dustin Bynum
(javelin), 400 relay, 1,600 relay
 Women - Alexandria Anderson (100*, 200), Stacey-Ann Smith (400), Judy Nwosu
(400), Mia Behm (5,000), Destiny Lumas (100 hurdles), Ashley Starks (100
hurdles), Angele Cooper (400 hurdles), Destinee Hooker (high jump*), Victoria
Lucas (high jump), Jordyn Brown (shot put), Amanda Van Dyke (shot put), Chantel
 Malone (long jump, triple jump), Kelly Heinbaugh (javelin), LaKeidra Stewart
(1,600 relay), 1,600 relay*
* region leader heading into the meet



LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

American clipping wings of its 'Nerd Bird'

BYLINE: Shonda Novak AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 489 words


The "Nerd Bird" is being grounded.

Effective Aug. 25, American Airlines Inc. plans to cease its two daily nonstop
flights between Austin and San Jose, which have been part of high-tech life in
Austin since 1992.

American spokesman Tim Smith said Friday that the airline was canceling the
flights because the overall economic recession and business conditions have hurt
business travel, including on the Nerd Bird.

The flights earned the name because they're typically packed with high-tech
workers clicking away on their laptops.

Austin travelers will have other ways to get to San Jose, including taking a
connecting American flight through Dallas-Fort Worth airport, or flying nonstop
to San Francisco via United Airlines or JetBlue Airways Corp. and driving the
rest of the way.

But it won't be the same without the Nerd Bird for hundreds of Austin tech
workers.

"It's very unfortunate," said Steve Taylor, corporate public affairs manager for
Applied Materials Inc., one of many companies that relied on the flights to
shuttle employees efficiently between Austin and San Jose. "It really has helped
make Austin the Silicon Valley of Texas."

But, he said, "everybody's in a cost-cutting mode," including Applied, which is
spending less on travel.

Taylor said losing the flight would make it more difficuly for Applied to do
business, because many of its customers are in Asia: "If they want to come talk
to us in Austin, they already have to fly across the Pacific Ocean, and now
we're going to have to have them stop in Dallas or someplace else before getting
here, and that will be a deterrent."

Taylor said some employees remarked that the flights seemed to be fairly full.

However, Smith said the issue wasn't just about the number of passengers but
also about the fares they pay.

Because of the recession, the flights are carrying fewer business passengers,
who tend to make travel arrangements later and thus pay higher fares than
leisure travelers do.

Smith said average fares on the route have declined to the point where overall
revenue was not enough to cover operating costs.

The cancellation is part of a number of steps American's parent, Fort
Worth-based AMR Corp., is taking to confront slowing air travel demand. The
changes include cutting some routes, reducing the frequency of flights on others
and switching to smaller planes.

Smith said the route might return, "but we're not in a position to promise it."

In 1996, Fast Company magazine surveyed passengers on one Nerd Bird flight and
found that 75 percent carried a laptop, 56 percent carried a pager, 52 percent
carried a cell phone and 12 percent carried a personal digital assistant.
Thirty-five percent said they took the flight at least once every two weeks, and
58 percent had a favorite seat.

Asked about the most fun they'd had on the Nerd Bird, one replied: "I finished
coding a completely dynamically generated, data-driven Web site."

snovak@statesman.com; 445-3856

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 4, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 915 words


Government health care

Re: July 1 letters "Health care concerns.'

The letter that made reference to the Veterans Affairs hospital needs to be
corrected.

VA care is not government care. It is Congress care. Government care included
excellent military hospitals from World War II, like Wakeman General and
Convalescent Hospital, a 2,000-bed plastic surgery hospital in Indiana;
Fitzsimons Army Hospital in Colorado, where President Dwight Eisenhower was
taken when he had a heart attack; and Brooke Army Medical Center, which has the
world's best burn unit and takes in even civilian burn patients; and the Air
Force's Wilford Hall Medical Center in San Antonio.

Congress has financially choked the VA, possibly because there are so few
living, voting veterans in each congressional district that Congress doesn't
have to buy their votes by providing the health services they had been promised.

Don't confuse Congress VA health care with the proposed government health care.

Dr. Bob Ellzey

Austin

The GOP comprehensive plan

When it comes to health care, I want the same care my Republican congressman
gets, which is mostly paid by taxpayers. Ask your Republican representative why
it's OK for him to have some of the best health care in the world but you can't.

Just more Republican hypocrisy.

Dave Easterwood

Austin

Champions of liberalism?

They who bravely call for the prosecution of President George W. Bush and other
administration officials must surely feel the Iranian leadership should be held
to their same lofty standards, too.

Where are their outright condemnations, their calls for public condemnation and
a world court to investigate and prosecute? If the brutal suppressions in Iran
are not cause enough for them to speak out, I wonder where their true ideology
and loyalties lie. Maybe it's just not convenient or politically correct to call
out the true tyrants of the world.

God bless Neda Agha Soltan and the brave patriots of Iran.

John Ferguson

Austin

Puppets of 'the great Satan'

It is totally appropriate for Congress to pass a resolution condemning the
crackdown on protesters in Iran.

It does no harm as no one outside the United States pays attention to anything
Congress does. But the sniping from the right wing complaining that President
Barack Obama should publicly support the Iranian opposition demonstrators is
incredibly naïve.

First, Mir Hossein Mousavi is an original leader of the 1979 revolution, and
there is no indication dealing with him would be any better than the current
Iranian government. Second, if we want to ensure the opposition uprising fails,
all we need to do is endorse it. The last thing the protesters need is to be
painted as puppets of the "great Satan," as we are affectionately referred to in
Iran.

Obama is playing it exactly correct, as every foreign policy expert has stated.

Ed Mears

Mountain City

Perry steers voter to Kay

I am a yellow dog Democrat, but Gov. Rick Perry has convinced me to vote for
U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison in the March Republican primary.

Perry vetoed a measure to improve pre-K standards for the neediest Texas
families but let House Bill 770 pass, allowing Rep. Wayne Christian, R-Center,
to rebuild his Bolivar Peninsula beach house.

Michael O'Niell

Red Rock

Anti-smoking

Re: June 18 letters "Smoking is assault."

I am not a whiner. I have always been allergic to smoke, and now that I am
pregnant I get nauseated when I smell smoke.

I do not go out of my way to breathe people's smoke. I have to avoid walking in
parks, going to concerts, walking down the street, driving my car or doing
anything public to avoid people who smoke.

To make things worse, my father-in-law just lost a painful battle with lung
cancer after he quit smoking and will never see his only grandchild. This is a
tragedy, not a whine.

Laura Smith

Austin

Car washes and bake sales

Re: June 19 article "Youth sports could get hit by city budget cuts."

The article states, "Several privately owned youth sports facilities might lose
financial support (in the form of utilities subsidies) from the City of Austin
next year under the proposed budget cuts."

The Balcones Youth Association says it might not survive if these cuts are
passed.

Balcones is well-established and well-supported, as are the other sports clubs
(Lonestar Soccer Club, Oak Hill Sports Association and the West Austin Youth
Association) facing the same budget cut. How do you survive? You have more
fundraisers; you cut out all non-essential budget items.

You can survive because all of the other youth baseball and soccer clubs have
done it for years without support from the city.

If these cuts save firefighter and police jobs and level the playing field for
all of the youth sports clubs in Austin in the process, is there any doubt what
must be done?

Dan McIntyre

Austin

Scrub up for dinner

Although the House recently passed the climate change bill that will impose the
largest tax ever on the American taxpayer and industry, I modestly submit that
they did not go far enough.

First, Congress needs to require any house with a fireplace to install a CO2
scrubber. Next, it should ban all outdoor grilling. The tons of charcoal used
during the Fourth of July release unfiltered greenhouse gas directly into the
atmosphere. Finally, large barbecue restaurants release an amount of CO2
equivalent to five tanks of diesel every day. They, too, should be required to
install CO2 scrubbers on every pit.

Sure, your plate of barbecue will now cost $50, but anything to save the planet.

Paul Oats

Pflugerville

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 1, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Report sheds light on feud at county department

BYLINE: Suzannah Gonzales American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1361 words


Travis County employees described a six-year history of threats, intimidation
and disrespectful behavior in the human resources department, where some
supervisors yelled at employees and slammed doors, according to a report by a
consultant the county hired last year .

Four-fifths of employees surveyed reported observing or experiencing harassing
behavior, and a "number of employees felt there was some favoritism or bias in
the awarding of pay raises and/or bonuses," according to the 22-page report,
dated Dec. 29.

The report identified a long-running feud between Alicia Perez , executive
manager of administrative operations, and Linda Moore Smith , human resources
director, that contributed to a negative work environment.

Smith and Perez continued to work in their positions until July 28 , when county
commissioners voted to suspend them with pay. Two weeks later, commissioners
placed them on unpaid suspensions . Today , commissioners are scheduled to
privately discuss the future employment of the two managers and possibly take
action.

County Judge Sam Biscoe has said that reinstating the two managers "was not an
option." Employee complaints about Smith date back to 2001, and Perez's
performance evaluations as early as 2000 raise concerns about the department,
county records show.

Biscoe said he first learned about the six-year discord between Perez and Smith
from the consultant's report. He said commissioners learned of employees'
complaints three years ago.

"I think we acted reasonably," Biscoe said, "and the more we found, the more we
acted."

"'Quickly' might not be the best adjective," Biscoe said, "but I believe we
acted appropriately based on the facts as we knew them."

Departmental strife

The county paid Southlake -based Employment Practices Solutions Inc. $54,500 to
investigate employee complaints against Smith that had been filed with the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as well as to conduct a climate
assessment of the human resources department .

The assessment consisted of 44 questions, and 25 employees were selected to be
interviewed.

Strife in the department manifested "in the high turnover of managers and
discrimination claims," the report said, and the department lacked goals,
objectives and performance measures.

"The poor working relationship between Ms. Perez and Ms. Smith was noted by a
number of employees. Several reported a 'trickle down' effect, suggesting Ms.
Perez's attitude toward Ms. Smith causes Ms. Smith to either 'go off' on HRMD
(Human Resources Management Department) employees or withdraw," the report said.

"Ms. Perez and Ms. Smith do not have routine meetings and have little day to day
contact. In addition, neither Ms. Perez nor Ms. Smith meet with their employees
on a routine or regular basis. This lack of collaboration has led to random,
idiosyncratic and ad hoc approaches to management within HRMD," it said.

Perez disputes much of the report and said she did not mistreat employees. "I
don't have that reputation. That's not the way I treat people."

"I don't know that you can call it a continual discord. There were differences,"
she said of her relationship with Smith. "We worked together; we got things
done, despite the differences."

Smith and her lawyer declined to comment about the consultant's report.

County officials then hired Leander-based CoachCentric LLC in March to improve
relations between Perez and Smith. The mediation failed, Biscoe said. Biscoe
said he had thought the investment of $12,900 in the mediator was reasonable for
longtime employees who he said had been productive for years.

Perez has worked at the county for more than 14 years and earns a yearly base
salary of $141,181 . Smith has worked there for nearly 12 years and earns
$118,598 , county records show.

Perez said: "The mediation was off point. It wasn't just a problem between me
and Linda. It was all the other things, EEOC charges, the complaints. I felt
like they wanted me to fix everything. They placed me in an untenable
situation."

Employee complaints

Five employee complaints against Smith since 2001 to the federal equal
employment commission allege discrimination, harassment and retaliation, among
other allegations.

"They worried me very much," Perez said. "They were the genesis of our
differences, because those have to do with management standards, principals and
expectations of good management in creating a productive work environment. The
more complaints from employees, it's telling."

Terry Davis , Smith's lawyer, said that the employment commission complaints
were investigated and that "on each and every one of them, they found they were
without merit."

The latest complaint against Smith came from Chuck Kelley , a former human
resources manager. Information regarding Kelley's allegations is the subject of
ongoing litigation, and the attorney general's office has permitted the county
to withhold the information under these circumstances, according to the county.

Kelley said that Smith retaliated against, harassed and was abusive toward him
after he disagreed with Smith on an evaluation of an employee he supervised who
also filed a complaint against Smith.

After bringing the department's problems to the attention of Perez and the
commissioners and filing his complaint, Kelley said he was placed on leave with
pay in August 2008. Kelley said he resigned more than two months later after
Perez asked him to return to the department, where he said no changes had been
made.

The work environment was so bad in human resources, Kelley said, that he and
others left before finding other jobs. He said every day he feared a
confrontation with Smith.

"I got out the bed, got on my knees, prayed for 30 minutes. 'God, give me
strength to get me through the day,'" Kelley said.

Eleven months before coming to work at Travis County, Smith left the Texas
Natural Resource Conservation Commission, now known as the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, where she worked for nearly three years as human
resources director, earning a monthly salary of $5,417 and a $1,000 "achievement
bonus" in 1995, according to commission documents.

In a performance appraisal for her first year and a half on the job , Smith
received a "superior performance" rating, the highest possible overall rating.
The documents indicate that Smith left the agency because of "reduction in
force."

County records also show that before working at the environmental commission,
Smith served as president and chief executive officer of the Austin Area Urban
League as well as personnel and staff development director and training
coordinator of the Texas Department of Agriculture .

Perez worked as assistant to the Corpus Christi city manager from 1982 to 1986
and later worked for Massachusetts state government and the City of Lawrence,
Mass. , according to county records .

From 1990 to 1993, Perez worked at the City of Austin, where she served as the
first and only Latina assistant city manager, a city spokesman said. Perez
resigned from the post to return to her hometown, Corpus Christi .

At the county, Perez oversaw the $38.9 million construction of the
Blackwell-Thurman Criminal Justice Center . When the county faced nearly two
years of delays and millions of dollars in cost increases in 1999, Perez
received a commissioners-approved 2.7 percent raise. Responding to criticism at
the time, she said she feared some were making her a scapegoat for problems at
the justice center.

Perez was praised in performance evaluations over the years for her hard work,
dedication to the county and her many accomplishments, including improving the
Travis County medical examiner's office and Travis County Exposition Center. But
former Commissioner Karen Sonleitner wrote in Perez's 2000 evaluation about "an
uncalled for verbal attack on me that smacked of insubordination. She pulled the
race card, then denied it. I had to seek the advice and protection of the County
Attorney's office."

By Perez's 2002 evaluation, however, Sonleitner wrote that she was pleased that
she and Perez had forged a new relationship, and in Perez's 2004 evaluation,
Sonleitner called Perez "a star."

sgonzales@statesman.com; 445-3616

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sisters of Mary follow God's call to Austin\

BYLINE: Joshunda Sanders AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 844 words


The eight Dominican Sisters of Mary arrived in Austin from Michigan on Aug. 10
wearing traditional white habits, their wooden rosaries swinging from their hips
as they walked. The women, all of them about the same height, were difficult to
tell apart. They ignored onlookers' stares as they accepted gifts from the
Austin Diocese staff - wicker baskets filled with bottles of H-E-B spring water
and bluebonnet seeds - then climbed into donated vehicles and headed to houses
in North Austin and Buda.

The eight women, whose average age is 26, came to Austin to teach and,
eventually, establish a convent. Not only are they adjusting to Austin's
progressive social climate, but they must do their work at a time when U.S. nuns
are facing scrutiny from above.

The Vatican has initiated a "quality of life" investigation into the more than
59,000 nuns in the United States to determine whether they have taken the
church's mandate to modernize too far by not wearing habits or working outside
of traditional teaching or hospital jobs. The number of women who have left
Catholic religious orders in recent decades is also of concern; the total number
of nuns in the U.S. has dropped from 179,954 in 1965 to 59,601 this year.

A recent Georgetown University study shows that the women who are entering
religious life are younger than ever and, like the Sisters of Mary, more
traditional than some might expect. The study found that modern nuns are more
likely to wear habits - many nuns have switched to plainclothes - and live among
themselves in community as opposed to living in a secular community.

The nuns from Michigan follow that trend. They will be in Austin at least for
another few years as they establish the convent that is expected to be able to
house as many as 100 nuns.

They are women like Sister Mary Regina, a 27-year-old from Austin, who said she
"fell in love with God" and entered the religious life in 2005.

"When God calls you, you see so many people in the life who have the newest
technology, but they're not satisfied," she said. "I think that's why so many
young people are giving their lives to Christ."

The local Sisters of Mary are pursuing a traditional mission for Catholic nuns:
teaching. Two sisters in North Austin teach at St. Dominic Savio Catholic High
School and Holy Family Catholic School . Two sisters in Buda teach at Santa Cruz
Catholic School.

The four other sisters are either working on the diocese's plan to establish the
convent or studying to become teachers in area schools. Christian Gonzalez, a
spokesman for the diocese, said he is not sure where the convent will be
established. He said that the convent will be the largest in Austin in recent
memory when it is completed, but the diocese is still in the planning stages.

In August, four of the sisters moved into a Catholic parishioner's home in Buda
a few miles from Santa Cruz Catholic Church. After they put down their bags and
gift baskets, they drove back into town and visited with school staff.

"How do y'all like the Texas heat?" asked JoAnna Rubio, who is in charge of
religious education at the school.

"So far, so good," Sister Mary David, 35, said.

"Pray for a cool breeze," Rubio responded, and the sisters laughed.

The group says their lives in Austin have been only slightly different from
their lives in Michigan. Sister Mary David said that the women wake up at 4:45
a.m. every day to pray, then eat breakfast while someone reads the day's
Catholic news aloud. Morning Masses at Santa Cruz have been changed to
accommodate the women, so they can attend church together, she said.

And there are more women joining the Sisters of Mary all the time. Sister Mary
David said that 17 women just entered the community in Ann Arbor, so more nuns
could be on the way to Austin.

Sister Mary David entered the religious order when she was 25. At the time, she
was living in Milwaukee and teaching while also working as a volunteer at a
pregnancy crisis clinic.

"I knew that something had to change," she said. "Nothing was clicking;
everything was very heavy."

Then her roommate, who was about to enter the religious life, invited her to a
retreat.

"I was just going to see where she would be," she said. "When I got there, I saw
the sisters and their joy about the love of Christ."

She said the women slept on the floor and worshipped almost nonstop for 24
hours. "It was no frills," she said, "but the Lord was there."

When women become nuns, they are given documents from the Second Vatican
Council, prayer books, a few articles of clothing. They say they learn that they
need little else.

Sister Mary David said that it generally takes a few years to get used to giving
up all the things that come with secular life. For women who become nuns, there
is no access to e-mail, for instance, for three years. That is phased in over
time, for business communication and maybe correspondence with family. "If
you're giving time to Christ," she said, "you need a separation from the world."

jsanders@statesman.com; 445-3630

On The Web
 The Dominican Sisters of Mary
www.sistersofmary.org



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Austin-area farmers sweat out the hot, dry summer

BYLINE: Addie Broyles American-StatEsman staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D12

LENGTH: 571 words


Farmers who provide fruits, vegetables and meats at the many area farmers'
markets have been bearing the brunt of one of Central Texas' hottest and driest
summers on record.

"It wasn't a total crop failure because farmers are careful," says Suzanne
Santos, market director for the Austin Farmers' Markets downtown and at the
Triangle. She says farmers plant a variety of crops at different times to try to
beat the heat, but even heat-loving crops were stunted about a month early by
the long stretch of triple-digit temperatures. However, a few crops, such as
olives, thrived in the above-average temperatures.

Santos says sales at the two markets haven't dropped because of the hot weather;
in fact, at the downtown market, sales are actually up over last year. But the
10-degree temperature drop in recent weeks is a welcome change for both farmers
and market shoppers, she says: Many farmers are getting a second crop of
tomatoes, peppers and squash, and customers stay longer at the markets when it
isn't so hot.

But the punishing drought, now nearly two years long, has tested even the
thickest-skinned farmers, among them Brenton Johnson, who has spent more than
$250,000 to upgrade the irrigation of his two farms east of Austin that provide
produce for hundreds of community-supported agriculture subscribers.

Even though he has several newly dug wells that provide water for both his
family and his crops, water is never guaranteed to flow from them. "Just last
week, our neighbor's well went dry," he says, a first in the decades that the
neighbor has lived there. "The nature of the farmer is to be positive," he says,
but using water effectively is just as important. "We try to use the amount of
water that crops require," says the former water conservation program manager,
and not a drop more.

Pati Jacobs, owner of Bastrop Cattle Co., says this dry weather pattern isn't
unexpected. "After a few years of rain, we get a few years of drought," she
says. "What we really need to be doing is identifying that this is a set cycle
and not be surprised when we drop into this drought."

Even though this summer's drought has reduced the number of cows she can raise
on her 235-acre ranch in Bastrop County, at least the animals have had grass to
eat all summer. "Last spring, we sprayed with compost tea and fish emulsion, and
our grass pretty much stayed green," she says. Rotating the animals between
pastures also plays a big part in weathering the dry summer.

Jacobs says there are several other things ranchers can do to beat the dry heat:
raise types of animals that do better in this climate, feed the soil, don't
exceed the carrying capacity of the land and clear out trees such as cedar and
mesquite that pull so much water out of the ground.

She says one good thing about the drought is that it's making farmers think
about other ways to use their land to make money. "We have to think about how we
can generate multiple revenue streams, which allows people to stay on the land
and still do agriculture," she says, like allowing beekeepers to set up beehives
or renting part of the land for renewable energy sources such as solar panels or
windmills. Another idea farmers like Jacobs are exploring is selling boutique
products such as charcuterie or preserves made from their animals or produce.
"We need to start getting a lot more creative," she says.

More rain wouldn't hurt, though.

abroyles@statesman.com; 912-2504

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Chance to fill leadership void

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 557 words


Fred Gilliam's tenure as president and CEO of Capital Metro will be remembered
mostly for what the agency did not do on his watch: open the agency's commuter
rail line on time and on budget.

Capital Metro's Red Line rail project already is more than a year behind
schedule, and earlier this week there was more bad news. Gilliam and the agency
announced that the beleaguered rail line probably would not open until sometime
in the first quarter of next year - two years behind original projections.

To be blunt, Gilliam's retirement later this month is welcome news. The agency
needs new leadership to meet its goal of providing effective bus and rail
service. Capital Metro has been a bus-centric agency that, under Gilliam, is
unable to get the trains running.

In June, we noted that the transit agency had a leadership void and repeatedly
urged Gilliam to fully explain the many delays in opening the rail line. The
first of Capital Metro executives to do that was Doug Allen, the agency's
executive vice president and chief development officer who likely will replace
Gilliam on an interim basis during the national search for a new CEO.

Gilliam finally answered questions about the delays in September. He told us
that Capital Metro set expectations it could not keep. It did not change the
schedule for opening the project when agency managers realized in 2006 that the
rail line required a computerized track control system.

Problems continue with malfunctioning crossing gates and control devices.

When completed, the 32-mile line will run round-trip from Leander to downtown
Austin.

Gilliam took over in 2002, steering the agency through a ballot initiative that
gave Capital Metro a green light to build the region's first commuter rail line.
Then, the public was told the project would cost about $90 million, but that has
since grown to about $105 million.

Delays and budget overruns are not atypical on major projects. But in this case,
they damaged the agency's credibility because they were symptoms of deeper
management problems.

Under Gilliam, the agency has seen its ridership, savings account and reputation
decline. Capital Metro's reserve fund was a robust $200 million-plus when
Gilliam took over. That has fallen to $3.8 million, below the $33 million
cushion of two months of operating costs that agency officials say would be a
prudent minimum.

Ridership declined slightly, though it spiked in the middle of his tenure,
higher than the 32.5 million boardings this past year.

On top of those problems were a series of rebukes from federal railroad
authorities that called into question the agency's competence implementing
commuter rail.

Despite the problems, Gillliam has notched some accomplishments. He is credited
for improving bus service, including logging fewer accidents than when he took
over. Gilliam also deserves credit for changing the fare system by requiring
those who use Capital Metro to bear more of its costs.

During his tenure, fares were raised for the first time in 20 years, no small
accomplishment given the economic climate and a governing board that often seems
more interested in scoring political points than running an efficient transit
system.

The transit system's board must find the best CEO for an agency in desperate
need of leadership and one who knows how to run a railroad as well as a bus
system.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 380 words


'The conversations have only just begun on this thing.'

JACK CASEY

Airline safety consultant and ex-pilot, on what he called the common practice of
pilots using personal electronic gadgets while cruising, despite bans by some
airlines. Two Northwest Airlines pilots lost their licenses last week after
saying they were on laptops when they flew past their destination, Minneapolis.

'I have to beat on them.'

BOB BLEDSOE

South Austin resident, telling Statesman Watch that the weed-covered median on
West Gate Boulevard gets cut only after he badgers the city parks department
about it. After his latest complaints, an agency official promised to do better
with routine trims.

White House sources 'say that when it comes to this decision about what to do in
Afghanistan, he is really agonizing, and I just think, thank goodness, you know,
that he's really agonizing.'

JANE MAYER

Staff writer for The New Yorker, on President Barack Obama's war strategy
deliberations.

'The notion that America will sacrifice its sovereignty and treasure - and dogs!
- to reduce warming by a fraction a century from now is absurd.'

JONAH GOLDBERG

Online editor for National Review, responding to the new book 'Time to Eat the
Dog?: The Real Guide to Sustainable Living' and to congressional proposals to
curb climate change.

'They control everything, from the sky to the ground.'

RIDAH MAHDI MOHAMMED

Iraqi, blaming Americans for security lapses that led to more than 150 deaths in
twin bomb blasts near government buildings in Baghdad.

'Talk show hosts having sex with subordinates, at least I understand the sex
drive. I don't understand this. You just don't talk about things that aren't
public.'

JERRY SANDERS

Co-founder of Advanced Micro Devices, and CEO before Hector Ruiz took over in
2002, on reports that Ruiz gave confidential information to a defendant in an
insider trading case. Ruiz, of Austin, now chairman of GlobalFoundries Inc., has
not been accused of a crime.

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES ON STATESMAN.COM

Sunday through Thursday:

1) Teacher arrested on child porn charges

2) Southwest launches $25 fare sale

3) Charges dismissed in yogurt shop case

4) Driftwood referendum would help fund Salt Lick owner's development

5) Man who says he was scammed wants lottery money

Compiled by American-Statesman staff

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 29, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled by American-Statesman staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 338 words


`Giving away money is about the best thing you can do with it.'

MARC WINKELMAN

Austin philanthropist and CEO of Calendar Club, who, with his wife, Suzanne, has
adopted a variety of causes, including St. David's Foundation, the Elie Wiesel
Foundation, Wildlife Rescue, KLRU, Texas Hillel and the Texas Book Festival.

`The cool thing is, we're not done yet.'

JIMMIE JOHNSON

NASCAR driver, on winning his fourth consecutive Sprint Cup season championship,
a feat unmatched in the history of he sport.

`Hey, Wyatt, I look just like Spider-Man.'

RANDOLPH BRESNIK

Space shuttle astronaut, hailing his 3½-year-old son as he clambered along the
outside of the International Space Station. Wyatt's new sister in Houston stole
most of the attention; Bresnik is the second U.S. astronaut to have a child born
while he was in space.

`Ultimately it's not just better leaders - we need better citizens.'

THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

New York Times columnist, arguing on the `Charlie Rose' show that it's not the
fault of politicians alone that the U.S. has failed to address its major
challenges.

`When you don't have any money, you don't have any money.'

MARK YUDOF

President of the University of California System, on a 32 percent cost increase
for undergraduates that sparked protests. Yudof, ex-chancellor of the University
of Texas System, said the state government's financial crisis left him no choice
but to charge students more.

`Wanna bet?'

IRWIN STELZER

Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, responding to a European diplomat's
assertion that `the world cannot wait on the Senate's timetable' for climate
change solutions. Stelzer's comment, referring to President Barack Obama's
resistance to any accord that won't win Senate approval, appeared in his blog at
weeklystandard.com.

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES ON STATESMAN.COM

Sunday through Thursday:

1. Austin artist designs road-going Viking vessel

2. Musician gets 32 years for murder

3. The Thirteenth Man

4. Officials: Bastrop escapee seen at Austin H-E-B

5. Police: Acorn-throwing led to shooting near Austin High

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 870 words


AUSTIN

394 graduating at St. Edward's

Diplomas will be conferred on 394 students during two ceremonies at St. Edward's
University today.

The ceremony for graduate and New College students will take place at 10 a.m.,
with Victoria Gutierrez delivering the keynote address. A graduate of the
university, Gutierrez is director of development at Southwest Key Programs, an
Austin-based nonprofit that provides care for unaccompanied immigrant children
and youths involved with the juvenile justice system. She is also a professional
auctioneer.

Ellie Ghaznavi-Salamat , also a St. Edward's graduate, will address traditional
undergraduates at a 2 p.m. ceremony. She is the owner of Los Angeles-based
Alliance International, which markets and distributes seismic sensors that shut
down gas and power systems during earthquakes.

El Niño effect has strengthened

The El Niño climate phenomena has strengthened and is expected to last into
spring, potentially affecting weather around the globe for the next few months,
the government said Thursday . El Niño is a periodic warming of the water in the
tropical Pacific Ocean accompanied by changes in air pressure and winds that can
influence weather worldwide.

Mark Murray, chief meteorologist for KVUE, said that El Niño typically means 30
percent more rainfall in Austin in the winter months. That increase in rainfall
will tail off toward the end of March, he said. Typically, he said, El Niño
peaks near Christmas.

"It's unclear how long this El Niño will last, but even if it lasts well into
2010, the impacts here in Austin won't be as great as we get into the spring."

TAYLOR

Teacher accused of sex assault

A Taylor school district substitute teacher has been arrested and accused of
sexual assault of a child. According to police, Gabriel Luis Sanchez, 24, is
accused of sexually assaulting a 15-year-old student on the Taylor High School
campus after 4 p.m. Tuesday. The student reported the incident Wednesday, and
the district notified police. Sanchez was arrested Thursday at his home in
Taylor. Bail was set at $100,000, and Sanchez remained in jail Friday night.

TRAVIS COUNTY

Hazing suit settlement reached

The parents of an 18-year-old University of Texas fraternity pledge who fell to
his death from the balcony of an off-campus dormitory in 2006 have reached a
partly confidential settlement in their wrongful death lawsuit against the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity, the family's lawyer said Friday.

Don and Debra Cross had argued in their lawsuit that in the days before their
son Tyler Cross died, he was subjected to hazing that included being beaten with
large sticks of bamboo and paddles, being forced to drink large amounts of
alcohol, being deprived of sleep and "other acts of assault or battery."

The family's lawyer, Robby Alden of Austin, said he could not release the
financial terms of the settlement because of a confidentiality agreement.

Alden issued a news release that said that under the settlement agreement, the
national fraternity "will implement a comprehensive educational program,
including a video with input from the Crosses throughout its chapters" that
shows the dangers of hazing.

Last year, four former members of the fraternity were convicted in Travis County
of hazing-related misdemeanor charges.

Man sentenced for child assault

A man who prosecutors say sexually assaulted a 5-year-old girl in a playground
tunnel in 2006 was sentenced by a Travis County jury Thursday to 60 years in
prison. Frank Calderon, 29, had been found guilty of aggravated sexual assault
of a child earlier in day in the 427th District Court, said Assistant District
Attorney Kelsey McKay .

Calderon lived near the girl's mother in Oak Crest, a mobile home community in
eastern Travis County, McKay said. He followed her to a playground in the
community and assaulted her inside a 9-foot-long tunnel in the spring of 2006,
McKay said.

"He would give her a ring and a necklace and tell her they were married and that
they were boyfriend and girlfriend," McKay said. "He told her not to tell or he
would go to jail."

ROUND ROCK

Student charged in stabbing

An 18-year-old student from Stony Point High School was arrested Friday in
connection with the stabbing of another student at the school. Dylan Marschall
was charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, according to the Round
Rock Police Department.

A 16-year-old student, whose name was not released, was stabbed in the back with
a pocketknife, Round Rock police spokesman Eric Poteet said. He was taken to a
hospital, but his wounds were not considered life-threatening, Poteet said.

ROLLINGWOOD

Power knocked out briefly Thursday

A capacitor bank failure at a substation serving Rollingwood knocked out power
for as much as 47 minutes Thursday night for about 3,800 Austin Energy
customers, spokesman Ed Clark said Friday morning. An Austin Energy crew already
working in the area was able to limit the outage's duration, Clark said.

Power went out at 10:54 p.m. in an area generally bounded by Redbud Trail to the
north, Bee Cave Road to the south and west, and MoPac Boulevard (Loop 1) on the
east, Clark said. Power was restored to customers in stages, and by 11:41 p.m.,
the area was back at full power, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2009



CORRECTION: In the Central Texas Digest on Saturday's Page B2, a photo supplied
by the Austin Police Department and identified by police as being of Frank
Calderon was incorrect. Calderon, who was sentenced to 60 years in prison for
aggravated sexual assault of a child, is shown at right.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 3029 words


In Loving Memory

Beloved Father

John Alfred Sifuentes

1956 - 1989

We love you and miss you more than you will ever know. Love, Rosalee, Sandy,
John, Roy and Dee Dee

Sondi Pettit Ross

Sondi Pettit Ross, age 36, of Lakeway, Texas passed away on Monday, January 19,
2009.

Sondi attended and loved Thomas Jefferson High School in Port Arthur, Texas. She
was a gifted artist and was loved by all who knew her.

Sondi was mother to Max, Alex and Holden; sister to Joe; and beloved daughter of
Mike and Glenda Reid.

A service celebrating her life will be held at her home, 313 Crane Street,
Lakeway, Texas on Thursday, January 22, 2009 from 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Essie Gayle Richey

Essie Gayle Richey, 95, passed away Tuesday, December 30, 2008, in Lakeway,
Texas.

Born January 23, 1913, in Guy's Store, Leon County, Texas, to Francis Alexander
Gayle and Essie Leathers Gayle, she lived most of her early years in Edna,
Texas, moving to Houston in 1924 when she was in the fifth grade. She graduated
from Sam Houston High School in 1930 and attended Texas A and I (Texas A and M,
Kingsville). In 1939 she married Warren Norris Richey, with whom she remained
happily united 66 years until his death in 2005.

Essie was a homemaker in the fullest and best sense of the word, raising four
children, contributing countless hours to community, church, and school
activities, and, above all, providing a warm and loving presence in the lives of
her family and all who knew her. She was especially active in the United
Methodist Church, participating in Woman's Society of Christian Service and
volunteering in the church library. She was a beloved and dedicated member of
the Houston Emmaus Community. Essie never met a stranger. She was blessed with a
dynamic personality and made friends wherever she went. She and Warren traveled
for pleasure all over the world, and, as part of Warren's work as a consulting
engineer, they lived abroad for short stints in Hawaii and London and in Buenos
Aires, Argentina for two years. Essie and Warren acted as dinner hosts for
international visitors to Houston as part of the Institute for International
Education, and Essie kept in touch with many of her international friends.

Both sides of her family were early settlers in Texas, and Essie shared many a
tale of Texas history and her experiences growing up in Houston. In fact,
several years ago she appeared in the KUHT television series "Houston, I
Remember When". She lived life to the fullest, salsa dancing with one of her
granddaughters to celebrate New Year's just a few years ago. Always optimistic
and enthusiastic, she touched many lives. She will be dearly missed.

Essie is survived by her two sons, Frank Richey and his wife Karen of Lake
Jackson, Texas, John Richey and his wife Betty of Houston; her two daughters,
Jean Richey Zidd and her husband Peter of Roseburg, Oregon, and Beverly Richey
Gould and her husband Virgil of Lakeway, Texas; and nine grandchildren and nine
great-grandchildren.

The family would like to give special thanks to the caregivers and staff at
Vista Oaks Assisted Living of Lakeway, Hill Country Care Providers, Misty Meyer
of Austin Odyssey Hospice, and Carla of the Summit at Lakeway.

A celebration of Essie's life will be Saturday, January 24, at 11:00 a.m. in the
chapel of St. Luke's United Methodist Church, in Houston.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests memorial contributions to Wedgwood
Academy (Library Fund), 3721 Wedgworth Rd. South, Ft. Worth, TX 76133, Lake
Travis Community Library Building Fund, 2300 Lohman's Spur, Suite 100, Austin,
TX 78734, an Emmaus Scholarship Fund, or to the charity of your choice.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Helen Maurine Ray

Helen Maurine Ray of Cedar Park, TX, died on January 16, 2009. She was born on
October 3, 1925, in Rogers, TX to Lena Crow Price and William Price.

Ms. Ray retired from Texas Parks and Wildlife in 1986. She spent most of her
working life as a legal secretary. She had particularly fond memories and
wonderful stories about the years she worked as a secretary to Governor John
Connally.

Ms. Ray is survived by her son, Ronny Ray and wife Elizabeth; grandsons, Jeffery
Leland Ray and Ross Brookshire; and her aunt, Gladys Mae Barchenger; as well as
many other relatives and friends. She is predeceased by her sister, Billie Marie
Price, and brother W.G. Price.

At Ms. Ray's request, there will not be a funeral service. She will be missed by
all those who loved her.

Brianna Rose Plehn

Brianna Rose Plehn was born June 4, 1997 in Austin, Texas. She tragically passed
from this life on Monday, January 19, 2009 in Spicewood, Texas. She was a
student at Bee Caves Elementary School where she excelled and was loved by all.
What an endearing joy for life she possessed as she danced and sang. With a
kindred spirit with all living things, she was quite at home with dogs or
snakes, but she had a special affinity for horses. She loved the outdoors and
all the beauty it held.

She is survived by her parents, Karl Plehn and Pinky Garza of Austin; brothers,
Blake Rowden of Dallas and Jagger Rowden of Austin, Dylan Plehn of Austin;
step-brothers, Robert Bayless of Houston, Dustin Knight of Austin; step-sister,
Megan Turney of Austin; maternal grandparents, Robert and Margaret Garza of San
Antonio; paternal grandparents, Karl and Marcine Plehn of Barberton, Ohio; aunts
and uncles, Bernice Hines of Conroe, Robert Garza, Jr. of Las Vegas, Nevada,
Shirley Wickery of San Antonio, Jerry Garza of Norfolk, Virginia, Stephanie
Garza of Las Vegas, Nevada, Dana Toth of Barberton, Ohio. Lastly, she is
survived by her horse "Spur".

Visitation will be held Thursday, January 21, 2009 from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
at Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home South Congress, with Recitation of the Holy
Rosary to follow at 7:00 p.m. Mass of the Christian Burial will be celebrated
10:00 a.m. Friday, January 23, 2009 at Emmaus Catholic Church in Lakeway, Texas.
Interment will follow at Forest Oaks Memorial Park in Austin.

Serving as pallbearers will be Blake Rowden, Jagger Rowden, Jason Wickery, Bryan
Hines, Greg Hines, Robert Garza, Jerry Garza, and Robert Bayless.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Philip Christian Ortiz

June 12, 1995 - Jan. 19, 2009

Our beloved son, brother, grandson, Philip Christian Ortiz, age 13, resident of
Austin, passed away on Monday, January 19, 2009.

He is survived by his father, Michael A. Ortiz; his mother, Liza Hernandez;
step-mother, Gina Ortiz; grandparents, Salvador and MaryAnn Ortiz, Thomas and
Sarah Hernandez; siblings, Eric, Michael, Kaleigh, Brandon and Sophia.

The family would like to give special thanks to the Dell Children's Hospital for
all their help.

Prayer Service 6:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m., Wednesday at the Mission Funeral Home
Serenity Chapel 6204 South First Street (South).

Recitation of Holy Rosary 7:00 p.m., Wednesday at the Mission Funeral Home
Serenity Chapel.

Mass of Christian Burial 10:00 a.m., Thursday at San Jose Catholic Church 2435
Oak Crest.

Interment to follow at Cook-Walden Capital Parks Cemetery 14501 North IH 35
(Pflugerville).

Pallbearers will be his father Michael Anthony Ortiz, Eric Ortiz, Michael Ortiz,
Sergio Ortiz, Anthony M. Bandera and Matthew Bandera.

To view memorial on-line, visit www.missionmemorials.com
<http://www.missionmemorials.com>

Diana Marie Knight

Diana Marie Knight, 49 passed away on January 19, 2009 after a courageous 4-year
battle with breast cancer.

Born in Santa Monica, California, she arrived in San Antonio, Texas in 1966. She
has lived in Round Rock, Texas for 10 years.

She was preceded in death by brother Charles Blankmeyer, Jr. in 1993.

Diana is survived by her husband, JW Hubbell; and daughter, Shelby Knight of
Round Rock, Texas; parents, Bonnie and Charles Blankmeyer of San Antonio, Texas;
sister-in-law, Laurel Sung; and nieces, Andrea and Isabelle Blankmeyer of Deer,
Arkansas; and many other relatives, long time friends and colleagues.

Diana graduated from the Ursuline Academy in San Antonio and went on to have a
23-year career with Capstone Real Estate Management where she held the position
of Regional Vice President. There will be an empty place left in the heart of
everyone, of her family, co-workers and numerous friends she has touched in her
lifetime.

A memorial service is pending. If you wish to honor Diana, please make a
donation to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation.

Maurine Vera Bearden

Freeman

Maurine Vera Bearden Freeman passed away peacefully at her home on January 19,
2009. She was preceded in death by her parents, Amy and Edgar Bearden, her
husband, Marvin H. Freeman, and her beloved son, Joe Bailey Freeman.

Maurine was born in Austin, Texas. She lived in Houston for a short while before
returning to Austin, but her favorite place to spend time was with her family at
their ranch in Round Rock, Texas.

Special thanks go to her caretakers who took such loving care of her for so many
years, Carmen Nesbitt, Benita Flores, Monica Santoy, and Mary Medina.

A celebration of Maurine's life will be held at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, January
21, 2009, at Covenant Presbyterian Church, 3003 Northland.

Interment will follow at Austin Memorial Park.

In lieu of flowers, you may donate to a charity of your choice.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Monsignor Edward J. Dokupil

Monsignor Edward J. Dokupil, 72, of Bastrop went to be with his Lord on Sunday,
January 18, 2009. He was predeceased by his parents, Willie Frank and Angela
Dokupil.

He is survived by his sister, RosaLee Wilkerson and husband George of Temple,
Tex.; four brothers, Tom Dokupil and wife Debbie of Seaton, Tex., Bob Dokupil
and wife Grace of B.C., Canada, Charles Dokupil and wife Ann of Irving, Tex.,
William Dokupil and wife Mildred of West, Tex.; eight (8) nieces; four (4)
nephews; and many, many friends.

The Rosary for Msgr. Dokupil will be held at the Ascension Catholic Church on
Thursday, January 22, 2009, at 7:00 in the evening, following at 7:30 in the
evening there will be a Vigil Mass held at the Ascension Catholic Church. The
Funeral Mass will be held on Friday, January 23, 2009, at 11:30 in the Morning.
The Rite of Committal will be held at Fairview Cemetery following the Mass.

CWO-4 Arthur F. Curtis

Arthur F. Curtis of Austin, Texas passed away on January 18, 2009 at the age of
85. Born September 19, 1923, to Arthur J. Curtis and Margaret Primmer Curtis in
Clinton, Illinois. Upon graduation from high school in 1942, he enlisted in the
U.S. Navy. In 1946, at the end of WWII, he was discharged from the Navy. He then
re-enlisted in the U.S. Air Force in 1947. He also served in the Korean War and
Vietnam conflicts. During WWII, he participated in the invasion of North Africa,
the Philippian Liberation, Guam, Siapan and Okinawa. In September of 1945 he
arrived in Japan with the Occupation Forces. He received numerous awards and
decorations during his military career which ended with his retirement on
December 1, 1972.

Arthur later began a career with the Austin Police Department and was assigned
to the Austin Airport. He was selected in the first group of airport policemen
in 1973. He retired in 1983 as a Captain and Chief of the Austin Airport Police.

Arthur was a member of VFW Post 856, a 32nd Degree Mason with the fraternity of
Hill City Lodge 456 AF&AM, the Austin Valley of the Scottish Rite, ANSON Jones
Chapter #507 of the National Sojourners, the Retired Officers Association, and
the DAV Austin Chapter 173.

He married his high school sweetheart and the love of his life, Barbara. They
were married for 63 years and shared a wonderful life together full of love,
laughter, and devotion. Their many trips together traveling in their motor home
hold fond and lasting family memories.

He enjoyed life to the fullest and will be remembered fondly by both family and
friends. He had a compassionate and generous spirit and always met a challenge
with courage. He loved deeply, gave generously, and served proudly.

Arthur was preceded in death by his parents and one brother, Edward D. Curtis.
He is survived by his beloved wife, Barbara; his children, Joseph L. Curtis,
Barbara D. Anderson, and Cheryle A. Curtis; his grandchildren, Brian Young,
Kristie Young, Sara Curtis, and David Curtis; his sister, Evelyn Cummings; his
brother, Carl Curtis; and his nieces and nephews.

Visitation will be 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m., Wednesday, January 21, 2008 at
Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Funeral Home in Pflugerville.

Funeral services will be held at St. Mark United Methodist Church in Austin at
2:00 p.m., Thursday, January 22, 2009. Interment will follow with military
honors at Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Cemetery.

In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to St. Mark United Methodist
Church, 601 West Braker Lane, Austin, TX 78753; or the Texas Baptist Children's
Home, 1101 N Mays St, Round Rock, TX 78664.

Visit Mr. Curtis' memorial page at www.MeM.com where you can share thoughts and
fond memories with his family.

Frank F. Castruita Sr.

Frank Castruita, Sr., age 100 of Austin, peacefully passed away at home on
Sunday, January 18, 2009. He was born in Torreon Coahuila, Mexico to Andres and
Juanita Castruita.

He was preceded in death by his wife, Basilia R. Castruita, in 1998.

We recently held a 100th birthday reception in his honor at Serrano's downtown.

He is survived by his daughter, Sylvia C. Flores; granddaughter, Toni M. Flores;
sons, Frank Castruita Jr. and wife Bennie, Richard J. Castruita, Roland
Castruita and wife Dora, Grabiel Castruita and wife Peggie; sisters, Julia
Torres, Trinity Casarez and Pauline Guerrero. He is also survived by numerous
grandchildren, great- grandchildren and great-great- grandchildren.

Recitation of the Holy Rosary and Funeral services will be held at 11:00 a.m. on
Wednesday, January 21, 2009, at Weed-Corley-Fish South Funeral Home, with
interment to follow at Assumption Cemetery.

Serving as pallbearers will be Kirk McCormick, Gerard J. Castruita, Sean Paul
Castruita, Stephen Melendrez, Zachary Castro and Matthew Castro.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Lisa P. Carlson

Lisa P. Carlson passed away on January 17, 2009, from complications associated
with a brain aneurysm. She was 54.

The Houston, Texas native and Shell executive is survived by three children, son
Trei Brundrett, his wife, Danielle and their two sons, Aedan and Joseph, all of
Alexandria, Virginia, daughter Caitlin Carlson of Austin, Texas; and son
Christian Carlson of The Woodlands, Texas. Also a brother, Miles Purdom of
Austin, Texas; and a sister-in-law, Lori Purdom, and niece, Kaylyn Purdom, both
of Bandera, Texas.

Lisa is also survived by step-mother Joan Purdom of Conroe Texas; an aunt, Cine
Latham and cousin Beau Latham, both of Tucson, Arizona; step-brother John
Strasburger, wife Pam and children Samantha and Jack, of Houston and numerous
second cousins residing in Texas and Arizona. She was preceded in death by her
father and mother, Don and Billie Purdom of Conroe Texas, and her brother, Rob
Purdom of Santa Ynez, California.

Lisa P. Carlson was born Lisa Jan Purdom on September 8, 1954 in San Angelo,
Texas. She was the second of three children and moved with her family to the
Spring Branch area of Houston as a young girl. The family then moved from
Houston to Cut-n-Shoot, Texas where Lisa attended and graduated from Conroe High
School. She enrolled in Texas A&M University where she majored in business and
she graduated from The University of Texas in San Antonio with a degree in
Marketing.

Lisa held various positions in marketing and consulting with Royal Dutch Shell
since 1997. She was most recently Global Director of Marketing for Shell Fast
Lubes. One highlight of Lisa's career life came while in San Antonio, where she
was Director of Marketing for the 1776 Inc. restaurant company. Not only was she
a key leader in the growth and development of this innovative organization, she
also presided over the San Antonio chapter of the American Marketing
Association. At the time of her passing, she had been serving as a Board
Director for the UTSA Alumni Association.

A celebration service for Lisa's life will be held on Saturday, January 24,
2009, at 3:00 p.m., at First Presbyterian Church, 2727 North Loop 336 West,
Conroe, Texas, with the Pastor Larry Cotton officiating.

Memorials can be made to the American Heart Association at
http://amha.convio.net/goto/lcarlson or via phone at 1-800- AHA-USA1. The family
invites friends, colleagues and family to share their stories about Lisa for
collection in a book on the website www.lisastory.com <http://www.lisastory.com>

Berniece Lunday Boyd

Berniece Lunday Boyd, 80, of Austin, passed away at her home on January 19,
2009. She was born to Alfred and Mary Wolf New in Henrietta County, TX on
January 31, 1928. Berniece was Christian by faith, serving her Lord as a
longtime active member of Crestview Baptist Church.

Berniece is preceded in death by her son, Mark Lunday; brother, Robert New;
husband, Buford Curtis Lunday; husband, Charles Boyd; and her son-in-law, Bill
Genzer.

She is survived by her loving family including; her brothers, Wilburn New and
wife, Pat; Luther New, and Howard New; sister, Beatrice Plant and husband,
Billy; sons: Clay and Jeanie Lunday; Clary and Norma Lunday; Jon and Kim Lunday;
daughters: Gwen Imhoff and husband, Dennis; Suzette Genzer; Ginger Jacobs, Jill
Helmcamp and husband, Todd; 14 grandchildren: Amanda Imhoff Ross, Lisa Lunday
Hargraves, Forrest Lunday, Monika Genzer Jordan, William C. Genzer, James
Stanley, Mark Lunday, Travis Lunday, April Lunday, Blake Wetsel, Beck Helmcamp,
Luke Helmcamp, Kade Helmcamp and Courtney Lunday; 13 great-grandchildren and a
host of special loved ones and friends.

The family will receive guests at the Funeral Home on Thursday, January 22, 2009
from 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. Graveside Services will follow at Live Oak Cemetery, on
Friday, January 23, 2009 at 1:00 p.m. in Manchaca, TX.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the Commission
of Every Nation, C/O Amanda & Derek Ross, Berneice's granddaughter and
grandson-in-law who are proudly serving as missionaries in the Philippines; PO
Box 291307; Kerrville, TX 78029.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Plenty to be geeked about

BYLINE: Omar L. Gallaga AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. H01

LENGTH: 1273 words


The geeks came, in large numbers.

But they didn't really look much like geeks.

As the South by Southwest Interactive Festival took over Austin (along with the
concurrent Film Conference and Festival), it became clear that not only was the
Twittering, Facebook-friending crowd large this year, it was " different.

The Interactive festival had about 25 percent growth over 2008's event, said
fest director Hugh Forrest, a stunning feat in a poor economy. The number of
people with access was more than 11,200. That increase was obvious in some
over-full panels, long lines at parties and the overall sense that the telltale
orange badges had overrun downtown Austin.

But except for the badges, you couldn't tell the difference between Interactive
and Film Fest attendees, as the American-Statesman's Out & About blogger Michael
Barnes pointed out in a festival column. It was a telltale sign that
"convergence," a buzzword that went out of vogue many festivals ago, happened
when no one was looking.

Filmmakers and TV producers, like the ones on the "Comedy on Television and the
Web" panel featuring B.J. Novak of NBC's "The Office," are trying to figure out
making money on the Web, just like the brainiacs and venture capitalists in the
tech world.

And as social media has become the hot tech trend, the Interactive audience has
swelled to include marketers-turned-online-media-experts, one-person startup
companies pitching cell phone apps that piggyback on sites like Twitter and
Facebook, and Web celebrities with hundreds of thousands of online fans. A surge
of late registrations led to the addition of early badge pickup, a sign that
something about the fest had suddenly become very attractive to a large number
of new attendees.

Did we mention Twitter? The microblogging site, which had its public coming-out
party at 2007's festival, has now been the dominant tool for festgoers three
years running. There wasn't a party, panel or Convention Center corner where
someone wasn't tapping out a "tweet" through an iPhone or laptop.

"It was a Twitterfest," Forrest said, "It still seems like the breakthrough
technology at South by Southwest that it was two years ago."

Keynotes

Other talk of the fest included the cold, rainy weather that marred the first
two days of the festival, cell-phone issues that plagued iPhone and BlackBerry
users on AT&T's network and the opening remarks keynote by the head of
Zappos.com.

Tony Hsieh, CEO of the Las Vegas-based company, delivered a speech about his
company's focus on good customers service and his interest in the "science of
happiness." It was an inspiring talk, even if it wasn't surprising to those
who've followed the Zappos story for the past few years, and got the conference
off to a positive start.

Nate Silver, who gained fame last year for on-track predictions during the
election season on his Web site, fivethirtyeight.com, had a less successful
keynote. What should have been an easy home run was hobbled by questions asked
by BusinessWeek reporter Stephen Baker. They fell flat, and the much-anticipated
session lacked energy. After a disastrous keynote last year featuring Facebook
founder Mark Zuckerberg and BusinessWeek writer Sarah Lacy, organizers must be
asked: Is there some sort of South by Southwest BusinessWeek curse?

Much better was the final keynote, featuring Wired magazine editor Chris
Anderson and venture capitalist Guy Kawasaki on Web businesses trying to make
money from giving away free or "Freemium" content. Kawasaki made light of last
year's Lacy/Zuckerberg debacle and asked funny, disarming questions, going as
far as to demand that Anderson give away copies of his forthcoming book, "Free,"
to everyone in the room.

Interactive at night

Though the daytime programming was as diverse as ever, with more than 300
wide-ranging panels - about Web business, gaming, online culture, design and
more - many festivalgoers this year seemed less interested in content management
systems than they were in getting to the roof of Six Lounge on West Fourth
Street to get pictures taken with social media heartthrob Pete Cashmore of
Mashable.com.

Parties hosted by Mashable, Facebook, Google and other tech companies were
mobile-phone photographed, Twittered about, blogged and live-streamed online.
Partying has always been a big part of the festival, but this year the most
popular parties downtown suffered from especially long lines and crowded
conditions. At moments, with Web companies shooting dollar bills from cannons
with their company logos on them and open bars lubricating the conversation, it
felt like the late-'90s dot-com boom all over again. Only this time, the entire
economy's bubble has already burst and the rebirth of the tech industry via
smaller, agile startup companies has already begun.

Interactive attendees seemed upbeat against the outside global gloom. There were
panels about biking, fitness widgets, dating, food blogging and dating amid the
more political and business fare. It seemed at times like Interactive 2009 had
already moved beyond layoffs, consolidation and failure and was already looking
ahead.

At the American-Statesman Texas Social Media Awards, overall winner Michelle
Greer urged others named in the awards to use their influence with others in
their industries to solve the multiple messes the country finds itself cleaning
up. "Solve problems together " don't drink too much because you have a lot to
learn," Greer said.

As far as actual technology, some of the most buzzed-about new tools at the fest
were Poken, a tiny, cute USB device to exchange files and Foursquare, a social
networking add-on looking to help cell-phone users find their friends and
turning it into an interactive game.

Some panels attracted crowds by featuring online celebrities such as wine
blogger Gary Vaynerchuk or "Dr. Horrible" actress Felicia Day and geeks who've
become incredibly popular online but who've maintained their ardent geek street
cred.

There was an impending sense that technology has become so pervasive and
mainstream that it might not mean much to be a techie these days. Celebrities
Twitter. Oprah has a Facebook page. How cool is your tech obsession if it's
featured on daytime TV?

As Chris Tolles, the CEO of news site Topix said during a panel, "I heard Diddy
talking to Ellen about Twitter and I thought the end times were nigh."

ogallaga@statesman.com; 445-3672

5 things loved
at SXSW Interactive
* Zappos CEO Tony Hsieh's Opening Remarks - Warm fuzzies for choosing customer
loyalty over more revenue.
* Guy Kawasaki, keynote interviewer - Just give him a yearly festival slot like
 author Bruce Sterling.
* Moo.com cards - The tiny business cards, usually featuring cute photography,
are still popular.
* International attendees - Maybe it was the cheap airfares, but we saw more
people from England, Australia and other countries than usual.
* Cupcakes - The moist, delicious unofficial food of the fest and star of
several meet-ups. (Runners-up: breakfast tacos, barbecue, anything from
Moonshine Patio Bar & Grill.)
5 things hated
at SXSW Interactive
* Cold, rainy weather - Austinites found themselves apologizing and saying, 'It
 was 85 degrees last week!' Nobody believed them.
* AT&T's network - Too little bandwidth for too much of the fest for iPhone
owners.
* One-in, one-out lines at the more popular parties - It's SXSW Interactive,
not Studio 54.
* Online marketers - Much grumbling from hard-core techies about the invasion
of PR people who've transformed themselves into 'Twitter mavens.'
* Quadruple-booking - Multiple panels of interest to similar crowds scheduled
against one another. Nobody said choosing would be easy.



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 1, 2009 Friday
                            Special Section Edition

Fly into summer with a sense of style that takes inspiration from faraway lands

BYLINE: Marques G. Harper AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: GLOSSY; Pg. Y04

LENGTH: 388 words


How are you spending your summer?

Now is the perfect time to dream about it. Warm-weather days boating at Lake
Travis. Taking in art in Marfa.

Consider donning a tuxedo and hitting the casinos James Bond-style in Monte
Carlo.

Fantasize about seeing breathtaking architecture in Dubai.

And what about falling in love under the Eiffel Tower?

Whether you're here, there or someplace in between, you certainly can add
flights of fancy to your lifestyle.

One way to do so is to include global influences in your wardrobe with, say,
African Asian kaftans, über-luxurious African-inspired shoes, European designer
frocks - the list goes on. Or let your imagination soar with whimsical shoes and
jewelry. If you're traveling, make sure to pack it all in a stylish, understated
bag.

With thoughts of summer travel in our heads, we jetted off to Austin-Bergstrom
International Airport a few weeks ago for our photo shoot.

As we set up backdrops and worked with American-Statesman photographer Rodolfo
Gonzalez, passenger jetliners, hundreds of feet away, taxied from the Barbara
Jordan Passenger Terminal to destinations unknown to us. That allowed our minds
to wander and wonder - and fantasize - as we turned the literal airport runway
into our fashion runway.

The new season belongs to you. Get your private plane ready, and let your
imagination take flight. The runway - fashion or otherwise - is yours.

- Marques G. Harper

Necklace by Kendra Scott, $250, at Eliza Page.
Ring by Marcia Moran, $165, at Eliza Page.
Handbag by Chanel, $2,950, at Neiman Marcus.
Bag by Property Of ..., $260, at Spartan. Suitcase by Mandarina Duck, $295, at
Spartan.
Necklace by Gerard Yosca, $220, at Eliza Page.
Earrings by Kendra Scott, $150, at Eliza Page.
Shoes by Dries Van Noten, $920, at By George.
Shoes by Colleen Cordero, $478, at By George.


STORES:
 By George
524 N. Lamar Blvd.
472-5951
1400 S. Congress Ave.
441-8600
bygeorgeaustin.com
 Eliza Page
229 W. Second St.
474-6500
www.elizapage.com
 Neiman Marcus
3400 Palm Way Drive
719-1200
www.neimanmarcus.com
 Spartan
215 S. Lamar Blvd.
579-0303
www.spartan-shop.com


Photography: Rodolfo Gonzalez
 Styling: Marques G. Harper
 Art direction: Dale Roe
 Models: Kory Wilson for Webber Productions
 Christy May for Webber Productions
 Hair styling: Shawna Parvin
 Makeup styling: Adrienne Pitkin
 Location: Austin-Bergstrom International Airport


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Haze in the air is from far afield

BYLINE: Joshunda Sanders AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 195 words


It's secondhand smoke on a global scale.

The haze veiling Austin is from agricultural fires on the Yucatán Peninsula and
in Central America. The fires send a smoky haze into Austin annually at the end
of the southern region's dry season, from late April to mid-May, said Bryan
Lambeth, a senior meteorologist with the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality.

The severity of smoke from burned crops, forest and jungle varies from year to
year, he said. The haze from the smoke is measured as particulate matter, which
can pose a health risk for people with respiratory problems.

But conditions this year are far from what's considered hazardous, weather data
show.

The environmental commission started monitoring the smoke in 1998, which was the
worst year on record for air pollution from the fires.

Because of wind patterns, the smoky haze in South and Central Texas has grown
more concentrated over the past couple of weeks, Lambeth said. Forecasters say
the Austin area is due for more warm and humid conditions, which won't help the
haze, in the coming week.

The smoke is expected to taper off by the end of May and to be gone by June.

joshundasanders@statesman.com; 445-3630

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 133 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Summer books '09

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 2980 words


Though a few economic indicators are looking up and our president radiates an
indomitable optimism, there's no getting around the fact that times are tough.
If you haven't lost your job or your house or your marbles, chances are you know
somebody who has.

Fortunately, the publishing industry - which, to be sure, is going through its
own struggles - has a balm for what ails you: the annual flood of summer books.
In times good or bad, publishers push scads of books - mostly novels, mostly
mysteries, thrillers, space operas, chick-lit sequels and even the occasional
spot of classy literature - that might, for a few hours or so, take your mind
off your troubles.

Below, our enthusiastic staff of summer book connoisseurs weighs in on 20 books
that have crossed our desk in recent weeks. Some are already in stores;
scheduled release dates are listed with those due out in the next month or two.

- Jeff Salamon

At 83, Elmore Leonard has written so much about cops and robbers that when he
titles his latest book 'Road Dogs' (William Morrow, $26.99) he's not just
talking about prison buddies Jack Foley (whom you'll remember from "Out of
Sight") and Cundo Rey (from "LaBrava"). Leonard's employing some of his own road
dogs in this warm-and-fuzzy (but with all due violence) romp, which also revives
scammer Dawn Navarro from "Riding the Rap." Road dogs are supposed to have each
other's back, but in this story we're never sure who has whose back and who
might wind up back in the slammer. In the end, we're all Leonard's road dogs,
lapping it up.

- Helen Anders

Fourteen years have passed since Pat Conroy's last work of fiction (the
sprawling "Beach Music"), but he's still mining the same sun-drenched territory
of his beloved South Carolina. In true Conroy style, 'South of Broad'
(Doubleday, $29.95; Aug. 11), named for the prestigious area of Charleston,
packs it all in: family tragedies beyond comprehension, suicide, lost children,
sunsets, football and over-the-top drama, all wrapped in passionate prose that
will have you thinking in an exaggerated Southern accent.

This time, Conroy brings us Leopold Bloom King, a teenager in the 1960s who in
the span of one day meets the friends who will shape his life. What follows is
an improbable story line spanning two decades - including high school
desegregation in the '60s and the AIDS nightmare in late '80s San Francisco -
but Conroy's gorgeous writing has you walking along Charleston's historic
Battery, peeking into hidden gardens and smelling the salty air in a city like
none other.

- Kathy Blackwell

Jeremy Duns is being touted as the new John Le Carré. Don't believe it; Le Carré
is uncloneable. However, Duns does make an honorable run through Cold War
territory in his retro-thriller 'Free Agent' (Viking, $25.95; June 25). Set in
1969, the plot combines two issues of the time: the paranoia about Soviet double
agents that swept over the British secret services and the almost forgotten
Nigerian civil war, in which the U.K. backed Nigeria against secessionist
Biafra.

Our narrator is a Soviet plant named Paul Dark, who has to scramble to avoid
discovery when a Soviet defector tells an MI6 agent in Lagos that there is a
Soviet spy in the agency. He steals a march on his MI6 rival, Henry Pritchard,
by going to Lagos himself to deal with the defector. Duns, who worked the Africa
beat for the British press, obviously knows his Nigerian nightclubs and
hinterland. On the negative side, Dark's tradecraft is often so sloppy that
sometimes he seems more Inspector Clouseau than James Bond.

Still, as the plot lurches forward, Dark becomes more focused. The deductive
fireworks at the end resolve Dark's problems in the best way possible for a
thriller series - Dark confronts a new set of problems produced by his solutions
to the old ones, the consequences of which will doubtless propel the next novel.

- Roger Gathman

You think you have problems. Judy, the heroine of Texas author A. Lee Martinez's
'Monster' (Orbit Books, $19.99), is stuck in a dead-end job as a night clerk at
a grocery store, where yeti are eating all the ice cream. Monster, the community
college-educated cryptobiological containment specialist sent to help her, isn't
much better off - his girlfriend is a succubus, his job isn't always profitable
and his closest work associate is made of paper. The universe keeps throwing
Monster and Judy together to deal with all manner of mythical creatures gone
wild. Can they save the world from a crazy cat lady who's older than time? Will
humanity become, well, felinity? You won't want to put this absurd novel down
until you find out.

­- Etienne Lepine

Bad dye jobs, first love, oil field disasters: No matter what tragedies befall a
girl growing up in the honeysuckle-scented small town of La Luna, it's nothing
the nurturing force of the Moon Lady can't calm.

Rebecca Wells, whose "Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood" put sweet tea and
crawfish-flavored books firmly on the best-seller list, introduces a new cast of
Southern charmers in 'The Crowning Glory of Calla Lily Ponder' (HarperCollins,
$25.99; July 7). We meet Calla Lily as a young girl, follow her to beauty school
in New Orleans and on to marriage, all against a backdrop of twinkling party
lights on a hot, humid Louisiana night. Together, she and her friends face
racism, addiction and death, and learn how to heal from life's universal
challenges.

- Pamela LeBlanc

Three young sisters find safety in the fantasy world they create in Alice
Hoffman's 'The Story Sisters' (Shaye Areheart Books, $25). The eldest sister
begins creating this world with its own language soon after "the day the bad
thing happened." Hoffman feeds details of the bad thing in bits and pieces while
showing how this unspoken thing changed each of the girls, especially the
youngest, who becomes an odd child, believing she attracts only bad things to
happen, and the oldest, who finds refuge in drugs and the love of a bad boy.

Despite all the bad things that happen in this cannot-put-it-down novel, the
happiness that eventually comes the sisters' way might open your floodgates.

- Nicole Villalpando

We are what we buy. That's the corporate dogma that veteran journalist Douglas
Rushkoff hopes to subvert in his latest book, 'Life Inc.: How the World Became a
Corporation and How to Take It Back' (Random House, $26).

Rushkoff takes the occasion of an epic financial collapse to explore the origins
and growth of today's global economy, weaving an impressive array of big
thoughts into a cogent narrative. Although Rushkoff's angst sometimes lapses
into populist ire, he offers a solution for corporate predominance in the form
of ideas for people to shed their identities as consumers by connecting to
communities and thus to each other.

- Tim Runestad

A romantic tale of faith, family and politics, 'The Disappearance of Irene Dos
Santos' (Grand Central, $13.99; June 19) centers around a missing 15-year-old
girl whose mischief and mystery become catalysts for an exploration of a
captivating Venezuelan family.

In her second novel, Margaret Mascarenhas spins a tale of a revolution,
telenovelas and religious icons found deep in the jungle. The novel is also
about rivalry, friendship and all kinds of death and birth, physical and
spiritual. "The Disappearance" is consuming, easy to read and hard to part with,
even when readers reach its jarring and haunting conclusion. ­

- Joshunda Sanders

Marital conflict leads to an internal war for the protagonist in Ana Menéndez's
'The Last War' (HarperCollins, $24.99). Flash, a photographer, stays behind in
Istanbul while her husband, Brando, a war correspondent, covers the fighting in
Iraq. When Flash receives a letter from a stranger telling her that Brando has
been unfaithful, she begins to question her marriage. Should she leave Brando?
Flash's anxiety grows when she notices a woman is following her.

The woman turns out to be a former colleague with more insight into Flash and
Brando's marriage than Flash would like. It's frustrating to watch Flash dissect
her marriage but refuse to accept responsibility for its flaws. She has
witnessed wars but sees her own life as the greatest tragedy.

- Sarah Muthler

Readers longing to escape the blast-furnace summer days of Austin will always
have San Francisco.

Best-seller John Lescroart's new mystery, 'A Plague of Secrets' (Dutton, $26.95;
June 30), has enough fog, rain and Haight-Ashbury geography to transport you
into the middle of a marijuana conspiracy gone bad. Lescroart brings back his
popular trio: defense lawyer Dismas Hardy, homicide unit chief Abe Glitsky and
gumshoe Wyatt Hunt.

The wealthy owner of a coffeehouse in the Haight has a secret past she won't
reveal even in the face of murder charges, and the trial has more twists and
turns than Lombard Street.

The title is a misnomer. The plague of the book is a tendency to overexplain
legal maneuvers and procedures. A lawyer has to tutor an experienced private eye
in finding a criminal's background in a court report. The homicide chief has to
remind his wife that he may be held responsible for the misdeeds of two
detectives in his office. Maybe all the characters took an illegal toke or two,
not just some of them.

- Denise Gamino

Don't expect "The Right Stuff." Craig Nelson's 'Rocket Men: The Epic Story of
the First Men on the Moon' (Viking, $27.95; June 25) aims to elevate the
achievements of Apollo's engineers and scientists (and all the post-Mercury
astronauts were engineers and scientists) as every bit as heroic as those daring
Mercury flyboys. It's a worthy and noble effort.

There's a good bit of the history of rockets and missiles, the use of slave
labor in Nazi camps to build them, the Cold War and more. With a huge amount of
archival material at his disposal, Nelson renders this stuff just as thrilling -
OK, almost as thrilling - as the Apollo 11 moon shot. For instance: A Soviet
rocket test ended up killing 115 people and set back the country's making of
ICBMs so much that Kruschev felt he had to have launch pads and rockets close to
the U.S. Hence, the Cuban missile crisis.

- Patrick Beach

As a 13-year-old, Frances Osborne was intrigued when she came across a glamorous
vintage photograph in England's Sunday Times of a woman in 1920s dress standing
encircled by a pair of giant elephant tusks in Kenya. But even more intriguing
for the young Osborne was when she discovered that the true story of the woman
in the photo - her great-grandmother, the five-times married and divorced Lady
Idina Sackville - had long been hidden within the family, considered, even as
late as the 1980s, as too disgraceful to remember.

'The Bolter' (Knopf, $30) is Osborne's compelling reckoning of her
great-grandmother's high-flying but sad story. Though she was impeccably bred
and astoundingly rich, Sackville was constantly at odds with the social mores of
her class. After she bolted from her first husband, Sackville fled to Kenya,
where wealthy British expatriates populated what became known as the Happy
Valley and lived a libertine lifestyle of gin-soaked house parties and
wife-swapping. Osborne details the frenetic partying, chronicling the awful and
unfortunate choices Sackville made, and had to make, that ultimately resulted in
loveless life.

- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

Everyone loves a good conspiracy theory. Best-selling author Iain Pears brings
to life the era before World War I with tales of espionage and revolution in his
new book, 'Stone's Fall' (Random House, $28) and makes you question everything
you thought you knew about international politics.

When a wealthy financier mysteriously dies, Matthew Braddock is called in to
find the man's previously unknown child in order to settle the estate. He soon
realizes the power of money to start wars and turn people against one another.
The same story is retold three times, each from the perspective of a different
character and each going back just a little further in history. It takes an
amazing amount of willpower to not turn to the very last page to figure
everything out, but it's well worth it when you get there.

- Chelsea Duttweiler

In international best-selling author Steig Larsson's new novel, 'The Girl Who
Played With Fire' (Knopf, $25.95; July 28), he manages to top the first
installment in his series and make you believe that a post-punk bisexual hacker
and an extraordinary journalist are Sherlock Holmes and Watson reincarnate.

In flawed, sardonic, brazen Lisbeth Salander, Larsson creates an unforgettable
heroine who is both unbelievable and painfully real at the same time. Salander
and journalist Mikael Blomkvist return in a striking novel that engages issues
of sexuality, power and pain all at the same time. Salander is implicated in a
murder and finds herself behind and in front of the magnifying glass at the same
time.

The novel is psychologically complex and raw, while telling countless stories
without losing continuity. It is a fierce, dark look at the intersection of
crime and the human psyche.

- Juana Summers

Sometimes things aren't what they seem. Austin journalist Belinda Acosta's
freshman novel, 'Damas, Dramas, and Ana Ruiz' (Grand Central Publishing, $13.99;
Aug. 11), takes a heartfelt and often humorous look at the relationship between
mothers and teen daughters, love, loyalty, friendship and the ritual of a
quinceañera.

Ana Ruiz is planning a traditional Mexican coming-of-age celebration for her
daughter, Carmen - not for the pure festivities of it, but for two distinct
reasons: to distract the teen from the collapse of the family and to win back
Carmen, who blames her mom for all their troubles. What Ana finds, however, is
that she can't protect her daughter from the truth any more than she can keep
from being the strong woman she has always been, even if it means letting go of
a loveless marriage.

- Gissela SantaCruz

Seductive interludes and exotic adventures define Margot Berwin's 'Hothouse
Flower and the 9 Plants of Desire' (Pantheon, $24; June 16) as divorced ad
executive Lila Nova's pursuit of her own Holy Grail, following an unexpected
betrayal, takes her from a Lower Manhattan laundry to the jungles of the
Yucatán. Along the way, Berwin crafts an easy summer read that is a guide on
plant mythology, spirit animals, curanderos (healers) and the mystery that can
guide us to spiritual discovery, if only we open up to it.

- Josefina Villicaña Casati

A former writer for David Letterman and the Seth MacFarlane cartoon "American
Dad," Steve Hely has brought some of his signature snark to his debut novel,
'How I Became a Famous Novelist' (Black Cat, $14; July 8), an entertainingly
cynical revenge tale set in the moderately high-dollar world of popular fiction.
Faced with the impending marriage of his ex-girlfriend, Hely's slacker
protagonist decides the best way to show her up - and make himself some easy
cash - would be to go to her wedding as a best-selling novelist. He devises a
set of commandments for writing top-selling pulp and succeeds in his titular
quest - after a fashion.

Hely's story offers a pitch-perfect takeoff on the insipid conventions of the
best-seller racks and combines the expected caustic wit with an unexpected depth
of emotional insight.

- Tim Runestad

"Due to their enormity, there are crimes that border on the sublime. Taking
control of Texas qualifies for this honor," Sen. Henry Clay said during the U.S.
invasion of Mexico City in 1847.

Mexican author Ignacio Solares re-creates the feelings of the city's residents
during the war in his novel 'Yankee Invasion' (Scarletta Press, $14.95). A
troubled romance and an invaded country are the memories of narrator Abelardo's
youth.

While the Americans were the enemy who took half of Mexico's territory, Solares
shows that the young nation had other enemies at home: a corrupt army, a clash
between conservatives and liberals, and a weak national identity. But what
really defeated the Mexicans was Gen. Antonio López de Santa Anna's inability to
govern the nation's vast territory.

During the invasion, the inhabitants of Mexico City, without the Mexican armed
forces, fought fiercely against the invaders. Some were engulfed with fanaticism
to confront any American on Mexican soil, while others helped wounded U.S.
soldiers. And then there were those who simply took refuge in their vacation
homes. After the war, only ghosts survived in Abelardo's memory.

- Tania Lara

If you knew Earth would soon be destroyed, would anything matter? In his second
novel, 'Everything Matters!' (Viking, $25.95; June 25), Ron Currie Jr., author
of "God Is Dead," has cursed his protagonist with omniscience .

Junior Thibodeau has known since conception the date and time the world will
end. He struggles through life's choices, wondering the point of them all. Each
of Currie's characters gets a first-person voice as you get to know a pensive
adolescent Junior and the people he cares about most. From romance and success
into befuddled adulthood he is determined to save not only the planet, but his
own small world, no matter the cost. Currie's troubled yet endearing characters
guide you through this earnest, uncomfortably realistic story.

- Jenni Jones

Henry Bay is a teen in the exurbs when he discovers his first enthusiasm: kite
buggying. Little does Henry know that the dip he takes into it (and the fan
journalism that accompanies it) is but a first step.

Henry, the hero of Charlie Haas' first novel, 'The Enthusiast' (Harper
Perennnial, $13.99), can't figure out where he wants to be - a crochet magazine
in Ohio? A tea magazine in New York State? More cities than he can remember, bad
apartments, even worse cars. Haas glosses over some details of Henry's life, but
we get the idea. He's been everywhere, covered everything. But what does he care
about? It's a feeling a lot of us can identify with: Will this likeable man ever
find his own enthusiasm?

- Etienne Lepine

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
