
                               3 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 804 words


Romney's Mexican roots

Presidential candidate Mitt Romney is struggling to figure out how to get the
Latino vote. It seems to me that Romney is passing up an opportunity to tout his
Mexican heritage. Mitt Romney's father, George Romney, was born in Mexico.
Romney's family played a major role in establishing Mormon communities in
Mexico. I think if Mitt Romney acts as if he's ashamed of his Mexican heritage
that it will insult the Latino community. Romney should show he has some Mexican
pride.

Marc Perkel

marc@perkel.com

Gilroy, Calif.

Rental law

Re: Aug. 8 commentary, "Give rental compromise a chance."

Chris Riley's ordinance is not a compromise, it is a list from HomeAway . HOT
taxes are required by state law. The city has done little or nothing to address
neighbors' complaints about noise, traffic, DWI, underage drinking, parking and
trash issues related to commercial short-term rentals. One officer assigned (and
paid for with tax dollars) still does not address when the problems occur on
nights and weekends when code does not work. The compromise by the planning
commission was not considered by the city council. All the protections for
neighborhoods were stripped out.

Clustering was not addressed. Safety regulations for lodging were ignored.
Realistic, measurable, enforceable occupancy restrictions were not implemented.
No off-street parking required. As for owners screening tenants, all they
require is a credit card. Remember the SWAT bust at CSTR in Zilker? My mistake,
it was paid for in cash.

Helen Rockenbaugh

Austin

Global warming

Re: Aug. 9 article, "July breaks Dust Bowl record as hottest month in Lower 48."

Global warming. Climate change. It keeps popping up everywhere in the news these
days. Today's story has many telling statistics.

My aunt in El Paso is 97. She's seen a lot during her lifetime. Now she sees the
TV and asks: "What is all this about global warning?"

I believe she has it right. It is a global warning. We are in climate change -
now, not in some far-off future. The question is how many degrees - annual
average - will we allow the planet to warm up with our continued addiction to
carbon fuel? One degree is a significant change. Two degrees brings major
disruption of rain patterns, cultivation, sea level rise, etc. A couple more
degrees and it is game over. It's time to move beyond coal and implement wind,
solar and geothermal power. Move transportation to renewable electric power. We
need to put the brakes on fossil fuels now.

Al Braden

Austin

Ted Cruz

Re: Aug. 8 article, "Consider Ted Cruz, Canadian candidate."

It is best not to cite the U.S. Senate or the Congressional Research Service as
constitutional authorities because they are not, and, despite their lofty
status, are less reliable and more political than Wikipedia articles. If Ted
Cruz was born in Canada, he is forever ineligible to serve as president, unless
the U.S. should annex Canada and make it part of U.S. soil. That would qualify
Cruz retroactively.

John McCain was not eligible, despite the Senate resolution, because he was
naturalized by statute, and that is not the same as being a natural born
citizen. Only birth on the soil can do that. If one is a U.S. citizen, then the
kid may have a choice.

There are statutes making offspring of U.S. service personnel born abroad U.S.
citizens at birth, but citizens at birth made so by statute are naturalized, not
natural born.

Jon Roland

jon.roland@constitution.org

Austin

Heritage trees

Re: Aug. 7 article, "City officials discuss saving trees at former water plant."

In the name of "environment," city officials should really highly consider
saving those trees located on the former water plant property at all costs. The
developer should plan around them or should go elsewhere! After all, the trees
were there first. The city has a good tree ordinance, but many times I have seen
a lackadaisical attitude from city officials and the council when it comes to
saving trees.

Michael Fossum, executive director of Austin Heritage Tree Foundation, says
there are costs involved. He further states: "But we feel like that is offset by
the benefits trees bring." What an oxymoron - if the trees are a benefit, why
are you even considering cutting them down?

Too many heritage trees are felled in the name of poor judgment and developer
greed.

Daniel Koncaba

Luling

Texas and Medicaid

Gov. Rick Perry and his minions argue that the federal government ought to
provide block grants to help states fund their Medicaid programs. "We can do it
better," they say. But if your memory goes back more than a few days, you will
recall that Texas is notorious for switching funds that were appropriated for a
specific purpose to cover holes somewhere else in the budget. So why should the
feds trust Texas to actually use Medicaid block grants to pay for Medicaid?

Russ Prickett

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

YOU SAY: VIEWS FROM FACEBOOK.COM/STATESMAN

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: ED; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 163 words


In an article titled, 'Record temperatures melt away, giving meteorologists
'uneasy feeling,' meteorologists say an unusual confluence of several weather
patterns, including La Niña, was the direct cause of the warm start to 2012.
Readers have their own views on climate trends or the lack thereof.

Blame it on the sun, not Earth's patterns

That would be the sun, methinks. Check out planetary patterns. They are not
affected by La Niña or whatever you make up.

Timothy Launhardt

Don't know how it works

The more things change, the more they stay the same. This is called "weather."
And humans know squat about it.

Gray Chenault

Climate will keep

changing, as always

I never understood this "climate change" fad. Climate has always changed.
History is full of warm and cold periods. I'm not sure what frame of reference
we're using for "climate not-change."

Rachel Pace

Join the conversation

What's on your mind? Get involved in the discussion about the day's news on
facebook.com/statesman.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 16, 2012 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Youths sue to limit emissions

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1042 words


Sixteen-year-old Eamon Umphress aims to make the varsity baseball team as a
pitcher or third baseman at McCallum High School . He recently picked up steel
drum and likes Latin enough to have joined the school's Latin club.

Not least, he's serving as a litigant in one of a novel set of lawsuits across
the country that pit environmentally minded minors against state environmental
agencies that have been slow to regulate greenhouse gases.

The case started as a national publicity stunt for environmental causes. But in
the background of the Texas suit lie profound questions about how society values
what's left for future generations.

Umphress is one of three minors who sued the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality last year after the state agency shrugged off a request that it set
about reducing carbon dioxide emissions in Texas.

The argument at the heart of the minors' effort - that the state should regulate
air emissions as part of its duty to guard the public trust for current and
future generations - won a sympathetic boost last week from a Travis County
district judge.

The agency had argued that the common law public trust doctrine has been
exclusively limited to the conservation of water.

Judge Gisela Triana wrote a letter last week to attorneys in advance of her
ruling that said the claim is "legally invalid."

"The doctrine includes all natural resources of the state," Triana said.

Yet because a slew of other cases in federal courts between the state commission
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency are likely to trump this one, the
judge ultimately found that the commission's "refusal to exercise its authority"
is "a reasonable exercise of its discretion."

In the short term, in other words, the state prevails. Once the dust settles in
the federal cases, which might be a year or more away, the judge's ruling could
at least temporarily saddle the agency with public trust considerations in air
emissions cases.

Should the agency then end up appealing the judge's ruling, it stands a fair
chance of success as it wends its way to the Texas Supreme Court . Ten or so
similar suits in other states are largely unresolved or have been dismissed.

The minors filed their original challenge to Texas' environmental policies in
2011 as part of a concerted advocacy effort by West Coast-based Kids Versus
Global Warming and Our Children's Trust, as well as other groups, to challenge
state environmental policies. The Texas petition requested that the commission
adopt a plan that would cut carbon dioxide emissions at least 6 percent a year ,
beginning in January 2013 , and publish annual progress reports, among other
things.

Commissioners rejected the proposal, arguing that the petition's proposed rules
were inconsistent with federal law, that they were based on a misreading of the
public trust doctrine and that they would shut down business in Texas. (None of
the other rule-making petitions has been successful, said Julia Olson, executive
director of Our Children's Trust.)

"While I don't discount sincerity on the part of petitioners," commission
Chairman Bryan Shaw said last year , "I believe the proposed measures would
actually largely just shift emissions of greenhouse gases out of Texas into
other states and other countries."

The children sued.

With Adam Abrams of the Texas Environmental Law Center representing them, they
argued the public trust doctrine, a notion with roots in Roman law that posits
that states hold vital natural resources in trust for the benefit of their
citizens.

"The atmosphere, including the air, is one of the most crucial assets of our
public trust," says the lawsuit , which claims the doctrine extends to include
future generations.

Umphress is the son of Brigid Shea , an environmentalist and a former Austin
City Council member. Also named in the suit, by their initials only, are two
young children of Karin Ascot , another environmental activist .

TVH , 3 years old at the time of the filing, was baptized in Barton Springs and
"has already spent many hours hiking in the Barton Creek greenbelt," the suit
says. "He loves to walk in the flowing water as he watches the birds,
dragonflies, fish, and other living things.

"Global climate change threatens to dry up most of these waters, turning them
from gorgeous, life-giving springs into dangerous flash-flooding drainages when
the rare, heavy rains do come," the suit continues. "The outdoors will be
inhospitable and the children will have few places to recreate in nature as the
climate changes. They will be living in a world of drought, water shortages and
restrictions, and desertification."

A fourth named plaintiff, Angela Bosner-Lain of Williamson County, was 25 at the
time of the filing. The suit says that Bosner-Lain is interested in becoming a
professional outdoor photographer but that "much of what she loves and what she
would use to build her photography career are quickly disappearing due to the
effects of the severe drought patterns."

The state environmental commission has not decided what, if any, action to take.

"It appears that the court intends to uphold the agency's decision to deny the
petition for rulemaking," spokeswoman Andrea Morrow said. "Once the court signs
an order or final judgment, we will continue to evaluate the ruling."

The influence of Triana's ruling is quite narrow. It's not binding on other
courts and is limitedly persuasive.

Still, the public trust dispute points to larger economic and environmental
questions.

"A lot of times when we think of climate change and the harms it's going to
present, we don't look long term and are kind of nearsighted," Abrams said in an
interview. " The youth are the ones who are going to have to deal with our
actions now."

"Climate Matters," a new book by Oxford economist and philosopher John Broome ,
makes a similar point. A central question in the taxing or regulation of
greenhouse gas emissions or individual decision-making, he writes, is: "How do
increases in future well-being weigh against sacrifices of present well-being?"

For Umphress, the answer appears clear.

"I really feel like the environment is a nonrenewable resource we have to
protect," he said in an interview, "in a way we can't comprehend right now."

Contact Asher Price at

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 715 words


Central Health flops

Re: Aug. 19 article, "Behind the tax increase."

It is irksome, though not surprising, to read that Central Health wants a 63
percent tax rate hike.

Just eight years ago, Travis County voters approved Travis County Health (now
Central Health) by a mere 5,000 votes on shaky promises of "better coordination
in care and cost savings."

So, Austin, do you think you have saved money? Approximately two-thirds of
Central Health's budget goes to salaries, and about $500,000 is budgeted to
provide abortion services.

Citizens of Travis County should not pay for the board's pet projects.

They should spend their own fortunes on health care delivery and let the rest of
us decide where we would like to donate our money.

Instead of giving Central Health more money, let's start a petition to remove
its taxing authority altogether. Central Health has not fulfilled its mission
statement.

Don Orr

Austin

Climate change

Re: Aug. 17 article, "CO2 emissions in U.S. drop to 20-year low."

I was heartened to read about the dropping CO2 emissions, proof positive that
when dirtier energy sources are more expensive, people follow their wallets with
significant and rapid results.

However, rather than cross our fingers and hope that natural gas prices stay
low, we should guarantee the trend continues by implementing a carbon fee on
fossil fuels at their source.

The money raised could go back to consumers, while the tax enables alternative
energy sources to be more competitive.

It is not too late to turn climate change around!

Susan Adams

Austin

Market forces

Re: Aug. 17 article, "CO2 emissions in U.S. drop to 20-year low."

It is very good news indeed that the U.S. output of greenhouse gases has
declined. Although it is disturbing that this decline is due largely to the
increased use of destructive fracking technology, what this puts into bold
relief is the power of market forces to drive innovation at a rapid pace.

Just think what would happen if we had to pay the true cost of fossil fuels
upfront.

Innovation, entrepreneurial spirit and technological advances would sweep into
the marketplace with remarkable speed, propelling a sustainable energy economy
forward without gutting the resources on which we all depend.

And we wouldn't have to worry about the summers in Austin becoming even hotter.

Anna Graybeal

Austin

Road-widening

Re: Aug. 17 article, "'Functionally obsolete' bridge may get reboot."

The Emmett Shelton Bridge proposal to widen and cut a swath through West Lake
Hills is a disaster waiting to happen. To widen and build another bridge will
create another MoPac and encourage faster driving through a mostly residential
area.

Cutting the west bank will ruin the beauty of the Balcones Fault and create a
fast lane.

Most of the drivers of this bridge and street are people who are not residents
of West Lake Hills, Austin or even Travis County. They are cutting through from
Loop 360 to Lakeshore Drive in order to avoid MoPac.

Wrecks happen when people drive too fast. This change will only encourage fast
drivers.

There is no need for new lanes for bikes and pedestrians, as there are no bike
lanes on Westlake Drive where the new bridge will end.

The people who will not be allowed to vote on this proposal by the City of
Austin are the ones who will be affected most.

Let us use the traffic lanes we have now and not increase taxes to ruin the
beauty of this area.

Janell C. Chesnut

Austin

Kimbrough's worth

Re: Aug. 19 article, "Perry's fix-it guy."

Accomplishments from Jay Kimbrough's state assignments are hardly "elusive" as
suggested in Brenda Bell's otherwise informative article. Jay's work transformed
the state's alcohol and drug abuse agency long known for wastefulness and
cronyism.

As a result of his work, we have a Department of Transportation that is more
thoughtful and better managed.

The same is true of the Department of Juvenile Justice where he now serves.

Most importantly, following the terror attacks of 2001, as Texas' Homeland
Security director, Kimbrough established regional partnerships with local
governments that saw hundreds of millions of dollars of federal funding
channeled into better public safety without any of the scandals or mismanagement
that plagued other states. These are solid, not elusive, accomplishments.

Jim Ray

jray@rayassociates.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Report: Changing climate leads to more downpours

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 348 words


Environmental group Environment Texas released an analysis Tuesday that found
that heavy rainstorms are happening increasingly frequently.

The report found heavy downpours used to happen once a year on average in the
state; they now happen once every 9.3 months, according to data from the
National Climatic Data Center.

What counts as extreme participation, or heavy downpours, according to the
analysis? The answer appears to be complicated. For a given weather station,
analysts identified the 64 largest one-day precipitation totals during the
period of analysis, 1948 to 2011. They then defined these storms at each given
weather station as extreme. No word on whether weather stations around Austin
have had different results from those in, say, the Panhandle or East Texas.

Environment Texas - an advocacy group trying to shut down coal plants - links
the storm analysis to climate change. The report suggests the planet's warming
increases evaporation rates, in turn increasing water in the atmosphere.

"Scientists have found that the water content of the atmosphere is now
increasing at a rate of about 1.3 percent per decade. The additional moisture
loaded into the atmosphere by global warming provides more fuel for intense
rainstorms and snowstorms," the report says.

Drawing links between weather patterns and global climate change is tricky
business, especially when you're making claims about increased downpours in the
midst of a drought.

In a news release, Environment Texas tried to address the issue of whether
downpours actually meant more water: Evaporation that sends water skyward also
means less soil moisture, meaning less water for crops or to bleed into
waterways.

John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist and a professor at Texas A&M
University, confirmed the relationship between warming temperatures, evaporation
and precipitation.

"The observed trend is consistent with what you would find with rising
temperatures," he said. But, he added, "that's not the whole explanation."
Circulation patterns, for example, complicate the picture.

Contact Asher Price at

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Experts: State faces challenges

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin lcopelin@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 751 words


Although Texas is a leader in creating jobs and recruiting businesses to
relocate, state officials shouldn't assume that Texas can remain the envy of
other states, a special committee on economic development was told Wednesday.

Several witnesses warned that economic development is more than just incentives
and that long-term problems in education, transportation, water and health care
- as well as increasing competition from other states - could undercut Texas'
advantages in economic development.

The Select Committee on Economic Development, which includes Texas business
leaders as well as lawmakers, was supposed to do a bumper-to-bumper review of
economic development programs and make suggestions for changes to the
Legislature.

But the 12-member committee, which convened its inaugural meeting Wednesday, is
starting 10 months late because Gov. Rick Perry, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and
House Speaker Joe Straus made their appointments months past the deadline set by
the legislation that created the committee.

To address the compressed schedule, Morris Foster, a retired ExxonMobile
executive who is the committee chairman, has split the workload among four
subcommittees, with some of the work already having started behind the scenes.

Foster said the goal is to discuss draft recommendations as early as November.

"Texas is not broke. We are growing jobs; we are bringing in new businesses," he
said after the meeting. "But if you don't keep working, you won't stay No. 1."

Those subcommittees will review existing incentives, examine whether new ones
are needed and address whether the state should consolidate some of its 67
different programs or have one agency in charge of economic development.

Brint Ryan, a subcommittee chairman and a tax consultant, said having a single
economic development agency seems unlikely "at first blush," although he said he
has heard criticism that the Texas diversified approach can be confusing or slow
down the recruitment process.

"We think Texas is too big and too diverse for one approach," said Ryan, adding
that no

final decision has been made.

Wednesday's testimony focused on the broader issues of what makes a good
business climate and how that could change.

Keith Phillips, an economic policy advisor with the Federal Reserve Bank, said
Texas has created jobs at twice the national average for decades because of
several advantages: The low cost of living and doing business, as well as its
high-tech and energy industries.

On the other hand, Texas ranks 30th in providing a skilled workforce and that
could grow worse over the next two decades.

Today, 18 percent of the Texas workforce doesn't have a high school degree. By
2040, Phillips said, that could be as high as 30 percent.

Likewise, the percentage of Texans with college degrees is projected to drop
from 18 percent to 13 percent.

"Those are very scary numbers," Phillips said.

He suggested Texas must address its dropout rates, particularly among the
growing population

of Hispanics, and suggested adding more vocational courses in high school.

Foster said he was surprised by the numbers, adding, "If we don't have the
educated workforce, we're in trouble" in the future.

Ray Perryman, a Waco economist whose 2000 report was the basis for some of
today's economic development programs, submitted written testimony that warned
that problems in education, water supplies, transportation and health care could
affect the quality of life in Texas and hurt the business climate.

He challenged the thinking behind some of the Legislature past cuts in
children's health insurance, Medicaid and education.

"It's important not to sacrifice our future economic health and Texas' position
as a leading economic performer for the sake of a limited and inaccurate
perception of true fiscal responsibility," Perryman said.

Joseph Henchman of the Tax Foundation, a national research group, said, "Other
states are incredibly jealous of Texas."

He said Texas is typically in the top 10 for best business tax climates.

But a new study of tax climates for seven "model" companies in different
industries shows Texas ranks only 42nd in being attractive to new firms.

He said Texas' higher property and sales taxes are a factor for some industries.
He also

cited increasing competition from other states

that are willing to target large sums to land a company.

"You may face a harder time getting new firms to locate here since other states
are, in effect, writing checks" to companies, Henchman said.

Contact Laylan Copelin at 445-3617

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

UNPLUGGED BEST OF STATESMAN.COM AND LOCAL-INTEREST BLOGS

BYLINE: STATESMAN.COM

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 1596 words


Red State

redstate.com

A lot of people are going to give lots of credit to lots of people for Ted
Cruz's win. One thing a lot of people will fail to comment on is that the Tea
Party victories of 2010 have morphed into anti-establishment victories in 2012.
On both the left and right, the base hates its leaders.

In Georgia last night Republican voters across the state rejected Republican
proposals for infrastructure taxes and spending and, in the process, threw out a
number of incumbent Republicans in retribution. In Texas, several strong
conservatives got the nod over candidates backed by Republican leaders. In
Florida, Michigan, Tennessee, and Arizona, as the primaries get closer, voters
are rallying to the outsiders, the real small government conservatives, and the
people most likely to pick a fight with their own party.

Should Ted Cruz win the general election, he will join Mike Lee, Rand Paul,
Marco Rubio, Pat Toomey, and Ron Johnson as another Senator who owed his
nomination more to Jim DeMint than the GOP leaders in Congress.

Already, there is a great game of co-opting happening. Republican leaders and
conservative establishmentarians are already whispering that Ted is a
"reasonable" and "smart" conservative. "He won't be like Jim DeMint."

Ted Cruz established himself by being like Jim DeMint. He better remember that.
The Republicans in Washington aim to co-opt him, to pacify him, and to make him
an ally in preservation of the status quo. They will use conservative
editorialists, fundraisers, and others to do the dirty work. They will try to
surround him with staff who can "tame" him and "show him the ropes." They will
push conservative think tankers on him who know the game and where their real
allegiance is.

The message of this election is that the trend continues - the base is tired of
politics and usual and back room compromises that keep growing government. The
base wants Ted Cruz to fight.

...Erick Erickson

salsa verde

statesman.com/go/salsaverde

Environmental group Environment Texas released an analysis Tuesday that found
that heavy rainstorms are happening increasingly frequently.

The report found that heavy downpours used to happen once a year on average in
the state; they now happen once every 9.3 months, according to data from the
National Climatic Data Center.

Environment Texas, an advocacy group trying to shut down coal plants, links the
storm analysis to climate change. The report suggests that the planet's warming
increases evaporation rates, in turn increasing water in the atmosphere.
"Scientists have found that the water content of the atmosphere is now
increasing at a rate of about 1.3 percent per decade. The additional moisture
loaded into the atmosphere by global warming provides more fuel for intense
rainstorms and snowstorms," the report claims.

Drawing links between weather patterns and global climate change is tricky
business.

I bounced the report's claims off John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist
and a professor at Texas A & M University. He confirmed the relationship between
warming temperatures, evaporation and precipitation. But, he added, "that's not
the whole explanation." Circulation patterns, for example, complicate the
picture.

...asher price

salud

statesman.com/salud

After writing a recent Statesman article (http://bit.ly/

NKskyv) on the lack of transparency in hospital costs, I have had a recurring
thought reinforced by a book review I read. We consumers are partly to blame for
rising health care costs.

In the Sunday book review section of The New York Times, reviewer Cathi Hanauer
writes about "The Cost of Hope: A Memoir" by Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist
Amanda Bennett, now executive editor of Bloomberg News. Bennett's story is about
the illness and subsequent death of her husband, Terence Foley. After he was
gone, she took time to go over his seven years of medical bills in detail. They
totaled $618,616.

The review notes that for a $25,000 charge of extracting a kidney, Bennett paid
just $209.87. She writes, as the review quotes: "What if Terence and I were able
to see more clearly some of the costs? " Would we have been able to make wiser
choices? Less expensive choices?"

...MARY ANN ROSER

Art Markman, PhD

smartthinkingbook.com

There are times when a particular baseball team catches fire at the plate. A
paper by Rob Gray and Sian Beilock in the Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Applied suggests that experienced baseball players may be affected by what other
players have done.

College-level baseball players and relatively inexperienced recreational players
held a bat and swung at pitches shown on a screen in front of them.

Before seeing a set of pitches, the batters saw a prompt on the screen.
Sometimes the prompt was a ball flying into the outfield as if it had been hit.
Sometimes, it was a ball lying on the outfield as if it had been hit there.
Sometimes, the prompt was just an empty field.

The experienced hitters were strongly influenced by the prompt. On average, they
hit the ball successfully into the field on the first or second pitch they saw.
They were faster to get a hit when they saw a ball flying to the outfield or
when they saw the ball lying in the outfield than when they got no prompt at
all. The prompt also affected where the players hit the ball.

Findings like this suggest something interesting about the way we understand the
world. When watching events in the world, part of the way we understand what is
happening is by imagining how we would perform the same action.

...Art Markman

From our readers

On a Travis County jury finding Verna Cooper guilty for recklessly failing to
restrain her pit bull, which had a history of aggression and which severely
injured a neighborhood girl in 2011:

There can be no sympathy for a dog owner whose "legally deemed dangerous dog"
got out and attacked a person AGAIN. Enough is enough with the owners of
"previously attacking" pit bulls. Jail time!

­... MarkPaul

If the owner trains and socializes these dogs properly they are great loyal and
protective family dogs that aren't very aggressive towards people. But when the
owner is dog-ignorant, and doesn't train them properly or mistreats them, they
are naturally aggressive toward other dogs and people they don't know.
Unfortunately there is not a good way to regulate this.

... Skeater

I don't care if it's a pitbull, a great pyrenees or a chihuahua - keep your dog
on a leash or properly contained in your house/backyard.

­... Whatwhat

On Bell County prosecutors reaching an agreement today, stating Michael Arena
will serve no more prison time for a 1999 conviction for molesting a young
cousin who later said the incident never happened:

I'm sorry he had to take a plea deal to "time served". He still has a felony
conviction. But, he escaped the draconian registry! I can completely understand
why he continues to protest his innocence and, yet, takes a plea bargain which
continues to record his conviction.

­... Cara1947

So"explain to me why, when the only victim and witness admits it didn't happen,
this man isn't declared innocent? So far as I can tell, the prosecutor fought to
keep a knowingly innocent man in jail. I'm confused by this.

­... TroyMcClure

On UT officially confirming that Anthony Fera, a place kicker and punter at Penn
State, will transfer to Texas:

Penn State is a great school, but they are being punished for the acts of what
was supposed to be grown men in professional positions - that took advantage of
a prestigious school reputation - by living without integrity. I think this kid
deserves better. Sorry Penn State.

­... Victoria R. McCracken

They should change the UT-Austin mascot from a longhorn to a vulture. Nothing
teaches faith, hope, and charity like your head coach preying on a football
program hoping to emerge from the shame of those who came before.

­... Tea Party Tina

On the Austin City Council postponing the vote on an agreement with ACL Music
Festival organizers C3 Presents to hold an extra weekend of the music festival,
starting in 2013:

Luckily C3 has offered to pay for damages and improvements to the parks as a
result. They paid for the lawn that went in at Zilker prior to the 2009 edition
of ACL Fest and they paid to repair it after the rains. It sounds like a good
plan as long as both parties are willing to do their fair share in ensuring the
quality of the parks throughout the remainder of the year.

­... Dale D

If half the people show up for week one and half show for week two, the grounds
will have a chance to recover from all the foot traffic in one weekend of ACL.
However, the park would be closed for the duration, meaning nobody else can use
it.

­... Nit Pickin Troll

On the City of Austin's budget proposal that would cause the typical Austin
household to pay $217 more next year in city taxes, utility bills and other
fees:

Notice how all city employees get a 3 percent raise. That is above the rate of
inflation and likely a bigger raise than most of the people who end up paying
the higher taxes to cover it received this past year.

­... A

When you use a commodity that is scarce the price will be higher, thus your
family of five will pay more because you will use more. They charge for water
the same way: the more you use the more you pay, and the more you pay per
gallon. Yes, electricity and water are considered scarce commodities because
they aren't always readily available. In reality the population expects their
needs to be met and that electricity and water always be available. So, bottom
line: this is a supply/demand situation, nothing more. Quit your complaining.

... Hmmm..

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

World is classroom for National Geographic photographer, her kids

BYLINE: Nicole Villalpando nvillalpando@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 838 words


Annie Griffiths has the kind of job of which working mothers everywhere dream.
Wherever her job took her, she brought her daughter and son along. This could
mean a village in Africa, a kibbutz in Israel or a Bedouin community.

Griffiths has been a photographer with National Geographic since 1978. She's
coming to Austin on Monday to talk about her career, show her work and raise
awareness about Ripple Effect Images, a nonprofit organization she founded that
highlights, through photography, the effect of climate change on the global
poor, specifically women. Griffiths was discovered by National Geographic at age
25 when she was working at a Minnesota newspaper and the magazine called looking
for a photo of hail. She happened to answer the call, sent the magazine a photo
and they published it. That gave her the confidence to pitch a story idea to the
magazine a year later.

Griffiths says she came along at the right time, when the director of
photography was looking to diversify his staff with women.

Once she had kids, Griffiths made it work by taking her children on location for
months at a time. She would find a centrally located spot for them to live.
While she went out on assignments, the kids would stay with a baby sitter. She
always chose a place where there would be other children for hers to play with.
She soon learned that cultural differences really didn't matter when it came to
children.

The family spent five years living on and off in the Middle East. It was one of
their favorite trips. "The culture is wonderful," she says. "Every adult looks
out for every child. It was heaven for my kids ... they were milking goats and
riding camels."

Her favorite picture that she has taken is of a scene after a dust storm. Her
son is curled up with two Bedouin friends in Jordan being protected by a Bedouin
man from the sandstorm.

"He looks like he came from central casting for a terrorist. My son is so
peaceful beside him. That's the culture I know, what I wish people around the
world would understand."

Oxford, England, was surprisingly the one place the children hated living. It
was November, drizzling all the time, with only a few hours of daylight. And, of
course, the baby sitter was grumpy.

Griffiths worked closely with her children's teachers to take schoolwork with
them, but the world became her children's classroom. Then when they returned to
Virginia, where they live, Griffiths would come into the classroom to talk about
what the family had experienced.

Living around the world taught her children, who are now 23 and 20, to be great
travelers. Each kid was given their own small rolling suitcase, which became
their toy chest once they arrived. Each time the children reached another leg of
the trip and were well-behaved, a new surprise was given to them. These "Good
Traveler Awards" were always something to do on the next plane or train to keep
them busy.

The travel schedule did have to be adjusted once the kids reached high school
and it was harder to pull them out of school for long periods. Then she planned
trips that were only two weeks long and stacked up work in the summer. Still,
she did get creative: Her son did his service hours in the slums of Calcutta.

Griffiths and her children have learned to pack lightly. Her rule is a clean
pair of underwear for every day.

"It makes you feel like a human being," she says.

She also includes a non-wrinkly dress in a zipped bag "in case you have to be a
grown up," dark clothing that "hides a thousand sins," layers and sensible
shoes. Everything goes into a zippered bag to be contained and easily packable.
Plus, you never know when you might need that bag.

For her camera equipment, she packs two cameras and three lenses. Packing
lightly "allows you the freedom to enter another reality unburdened," she says.
"It allows you to connect with people."

And when she travels, she's focused on meeting and talking to the people to get
their perspective, not just seeing the touristy sites.

Her travel lead to Ripple Effect Images, which presents the effect of climate
change on the world's women through photography. The organization is made up of
National Geographic female photographers who document programs that empower
women and girls. They are creating an archive of successful programs that can be
used by the State Department and the United Nations as evidence of what's
working. "There's clear data that women and girls are the best investment in aid
dollars," she says. "Yet only 2 cents of American aid dollars go to women and
girls."

The organization has been in Kenya, Bangladesh, Jordan, Ecuador, Peru, India and
Vietnam and is headed to Nicaragua and Myanmar.

The "ripple effect," she says, happens when you help women, because they in turn
help their children and their families.

Contact Nicole Villalpando at 912-5900.

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC LIVE! A CAMERA, TWO KIDS & A CAMEL
 When: 8 p.m. Monday
 Where: The Long Center, 701 W. Riverside Drive
 Tickets: $19-$39, students $11.50-$21.50
 Information: 474-LONG, www.TheLongCenter.org



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 7, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 852 words


Tweak Texas voting

The race is now over, but I'm still complaining regarding the winner-takes-all
approach Texas chooses for allotting its Electoral College votes. Although
eliminating the Electoral College itself would be desirable, our constitution is
difficult to amend. Instead, our state Legislature has the power to improve on
this situation. The best solution would be to distribute Texas' votes
proportionally based on the popular vote.

Republicans hardly needed the votes of their followers to win all 38 votes, and
a voter who favors the Democratic candidate is hardly motivated for a futile
endeavor. Neither side has incentive to vote. A Republican-controlled
Legislature may not feel inclined to share any of Texas' 38 electoral votes.

But with rapidly changing demographics, perhaps, it would be in their best
self-interest for Republicans to share now, so their votes will still count when
they are no longer the majority.

Bill Pfennig

Cedar Park

Fort Hood delay

Re: Dec. 4 article, "Judge out in Fort Hood case."

Along with the recent plethora of letters to the editor and commentary
complaining about judges here in Texas, I would add this one.

It's been reported that the military judge in the case of the Maj. Nidal Hasan
murder spree at Fort Hood has been dismissed, which I fully support. The
slaughter of the soldiers at Fort Hood was put on the back-burner while the
judge wrangled with whether Hasan - a Muslim - wore a beard or not. Sure, maybe
it's against military regulations, but so is murder, and Hasan should have been
dishonorably discharged from the Army long ago. Who cares if has a beard? The
evidence against him is overwhelming and will be shown to be beyond a shadow of
a doubt. And he's shown absolutely zero regard for military protocol by his
actions. This delay in justice has been inexcusable. Get on with it.

Eugene Czora

autocycle@austin.rr.com

Cedar Creek

Fight climate change

Re: Dec. 3 article, "Sediment buildup cuts capacity of lakes."

I was alarmed to read about how our reservoirs are losing capacity due to soil
runoff. Factor in a November without a drop of rain and a December off strong
with record high temperatures, and it's enough to drive a person to despair. The
hotter it is, the more moisture evaporates from the soil, the more runoff you
get when you do finally get rain, the more dramatic the storms when they do
happen thanks to the extra moisture in the atmosphere, the more dirt they carry
off, and so on.

But we can put the brakes on climate change right this minute, and push our
policymakers to get the ball rolling by leveling a revenue-neutral fee on carbon
at the source (well, mine, border), returning the proceeds to Americans to help
offset costs. What other signs do we need?

Susan Adams

marthasadams@hotmail.com

Austin

House the homeless

At no point do we know as much about our citizens as we do when they enter our
societal institutions. As people enter and then exit our institutions like our
youth aging out of foster care, or exiting our shelters or leaving our jails and
prisons or leaving our hospitals and mental health facilities, or when our
service men and women exit military service, they should be discharged only into
a safe housing environment.

By embracing this moral/ethical tenet, discharge no one into homelessness, we
encourage our facilities and our social workers to assess the housing needs of
our people and then to respond. If they are only able to say that they don't
have enough resources, then so be it. But that can be our first blow in the
battle to prevent homelessness. Learn more at www.HouseTheHomeless.org.

Richard R. Troxell

rrtroxell@aol.com

Austin

Learn from train tragedy

Re: Nov. 19 article, "Parade used route for 3 years."

The horrible train/float collision in Midland on Nov. 15 that killed four
disabled war veterans revives a sad almost similar occurrence that happened in
our city more than 25 years ago. On a Sunday morning, a high school teacher and
her mother were on their way to church. As they attempted to drive over the
railroad tracks (minus an overpass at the time), they were struck by a
fast-moving northbound freight train. They died upon impact.

I, then chairperson of a very active South Austin neighborhood council
organization, sprung into action, requesting the City of Austin and Texas
Highway Department, in conjunction with railroad companies that traveled on
these tracks, to build an overpass on this major thoroughfare. A few years
later, the request was realized and the overpass at this dangerous railroad
crossing was finally built.

Moses P. Saldaña, Sr.

Austin

SHARE YOUR HOLIDAY WISHES
 Unlike most holiday season offerings, wishes don't cost anything. Do you have
a wish for something that would make this year special? Why don't you share it
with the rest of our readers? We're soliciting your holiday wishes for this
year for publication on Dec. 25. Please limit your submissions to 150 words.
Send your submissions by Dec. 14 to letters@statesman.com or to:
 Letters to the Editor
 PO Box 670
 Austin, Texas 78768
 Please put "Christmas letters" in subject line of emails or on the envelope.



LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 790 words


Mayor addressing aging

Sunday's feature story by Jeremy Schwartz ("Austin unprepared for wave of poor
seniors.") on Austin's fast-growing senior population was powerful and timely.
Many of the concerns highlighted in the Schwartz story were also foremost in my
mind two weeks ago when I announced (during the State of the City address) a
plan to create the Mayor's Task Force on Aging. As I noted at the time, our area
has the nation's third-fastest growing population of people aged 65 and over,
and the nation's fastest-growing population of people between 55 and 65.

I've made a personal commitment to raise $50,000 to fund the work of this
important task force, which will be a collaborative, citywide effort to produce
a plan for helping our seniors continue to live active, healthy, independent
lives. They deserve no less. If you are interested in participating in the work
of the Mayor's Task Force on Aging, please contact us at 974-2250.

Lee Leffingwell

Austin mayor

Water rights

Re: March 12 Laura Huffman and Susan Combs commentaries, "Who will control our
groundwater?"

Historically, surface landowners own fresh groundwater through state-approved
water well permits. This is consistent with geological data that define fresh
ground water as modern; rainwater, owned by the surface land owner, that has
percolated into the subsurface forming a thin layer on top of underlying
saltwater. The saltwater is an ancient, now dormant, inclusion of sea water in
rocks that contain oil and gas deposits. It is essential to the generation,
migration and entrapment of oil and gas.

Without saltwater there would be not oil and gas. When oil and gas contact fresh
water, they are destroyed by loss of gas and light oil. The obvious conclusion
is that fresh water be owned by the surface landowner; saltwater, oil and gas by
the subsurface land owner.

Donald F. Beaumont

Georgetown

Stop school budget cuts

In response to the recent rallies fighting for the refinancing and restructuring
of Texas public schools, we wanted to applaud the efforts of the Save Texas
Schools campaign. As future school social workers, we strongly believe that
investing in the education of Texas students means investing in the future
growth and success of our community.

It is expected that during the 2012-13 school year, the state will be facing a
devastating $1 billion budget cut. This budget cut will result in the closing of
many schools, loss of jobs for thousands and inadequate learning environments
for students. We urge all readers to contact Gov. Rick Perry to declare the
importance of adequate funding to save schools. Making public education a top
priority means making a positive impact on our children, and therefore our
future.

Chelsea Pattillo and Priya Sekar

Austin

Too techy

On my walk this morning, I spoke with two men.

One was getting into his recent model BMW. The other was waiting for a bus. To
the first, I said, "nice car." To the second, I said, "It could be more helpful
if they posted the times." Posted bus schedules have been replaced with
smartphone icon for getting these online. My guess is that the BMW driver might
have a smartphone. I'm pretty certain that the bus rider did not.

John Keohane

keohane@prodigy.net

Austin

Gas not rare

If we have such high prices of gas - why is there no shortage? I don't see
people waiting in line or at service stations with "out of gasoline" signs.
There must be something causing the high prices!

John M. Bryant

jbryant009@austin.rr.com

Austin

Water rights

Re: March 30 article, "Conservatives' distrust of science rising, study finds."

"Educated conservatives' distrust of science is rising" - you bet. It's because
"scientism" has replaced real scientific fact.

We see scientism masquerading as science every day. Advertisers and grant
recipients promote the latest discoveries - how certain foods are hurtful - but
then healthful years later. Same with miracle drinks, exercise techniques,
discretionary drugs, etc. You see scientism everywhere even in politics.
Scientism's "facts" vary, depending on which laboratories are making the
evaluations and what interest groups are paying for them. It's reported today
that 97 percent of scientists believe climate is warming because of increases in
carbon dioxide. Scientism's promoters got out in front early on this with the
untrue claim. Now the CO2 premise is being chipped away daily by facts. Because
science and ethics demand validation before prediction, all scientism's
predictive slogans have failed. Without validation, global warming had to give
way to climate change, then to climate disruption, and now to extreme climate.
The name changes are indicative of an attempt to validate scientism with fear
and gullibility.

Leo P Danze

ldanze@austin.rr.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Natural gas dips as rates head up

BYLINE: Marty Toohey mtoohey@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1930 words


At public hearings, forums and even the occasional community gathering over the
past few months, a question has popped up again and again: If natural gas prices
have dropped so quickly, why are Austin Energy's rates going up instead of down?

The answer is complicated. But the question's underlying premise is not: The
city-owned utility and its customers are not benefiting much from today's
historically low gas prices, mostly the result of a new form of drilling called
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The reason Austin Energy has not benefited
is, essentially, that the utility has a philosophy of hedging its bets.

Though little noted, "hedging" - a practice started after a natural gas tycoon
caused a Central Texas energy crisis in the early 1970s - has shaped the way
Austin Energy has approached not just natural gas, but also its larger
operations. For the sake of a diversified portfolio, the utility gets
electricity from coal, nuclear energy, natural gas, wind, solar power and
landfill gas - and will even rely on wood waste starting in 2013.

The possibility of reliably cheap natural gas has shed some doubt on that
approach. Austin Energy is now reviewing whether it should tweak the hedging
policy and is scheduled to give a preliminary briefing to the city's Electric
Utility Commission in a couple of months.

"Part of me says fracking is a long-term game changer and we're idiots if we
don't stop the hedging," said Phillip Schmandt, chairman of the city's utility
commission, which advises the City Council. "But no one can predict with
certainty what will happen with natural gas. It's got me confounded."

The philosophy of minimizing the spikes and dips dates back to 1972. Oil and
natural gas tycoon Oscar Wyatt - remembered by Austinites of a certain vintage
as a real-life J.R. Ewing - was the city's supplier of natural gas, the only
fuel used then to generate electricity. In signing long-term deals with Wyatt,
Austin Energy and other Central Texas utilities thought they were locking in a
safe fuel supply at a great price.

Then, amid one of the worst cold snaps in Austin history, electricity prices
skyrocketed, and Wyatt's company did not supply the promised gas. A surge in
overall demand for natural gas contributed to the problem, but so did this:
Wyatt hadn't locked in enough natural gas supply to match his contracted demand.
Some also contend to this day that Wyatt actually had plenty of gas but withheld
it to sell on the market and take advantage of surging prices.

Whatever the reason, Austin turned to burning fuel oil, and even that was a
short-term solution that left the city within a day or two of no electricity at
all. The panic and ensuing anger led to a search for a diversified supply of
energy, a search that led to some of Austin's fiercest civic fights. The city
became co-owner of a nuclear plant after years of debate and vitriol. A coal
plant followed. And additional natural gas plants and suppliers.

Wyatt taught Austin to avoid tying itself exclusively to one source of energy.

Austin Energy's approach to natural gas is a small-scale example of how that
philosophy works.

The utility buys its natural gas on the spot market, which is traditionally
prone to sudden and difficult-to-predict price swings. To protect against
spikes, the utility buys what are known as "financial instruments," which are
essentially a series of educated bets intended to counterbalance whatever the
spot market is doing. Those bets are usually made on a five-year basis, so once
they're put in place, they are difficult to reverse.

Insurance policy

The practice is often compared in crude terms to buying homeowners insurance. If
the house burns down, the homeowner is financially protected, and the cost of
the insurance was worthwhile; when everything is fine, the homeowner is paying
for a service without much benefit.

Likewise, when natural gas prices spike, Austin Energy's customers are largely
shielded from the effects, as they were in 2008. But when natural gas prices dip
- as they have since fracking started to catch on - the utility is locked into
its hedging contracts, and customers miss out on the lower prices while
continuing to pay the fee that comes with a hedging contract.

But avoiding peaks and valleys is valuable and is actually the main point of
hedging, said Eugene Meehan, a NERA Economic Consulting vice president who
advises utilities nationwide on economic planning. He said hedging is an
accepted practice that nearly half the nation's utilities probably use in some
form.

"It makes sense if it is valuable to customers to have ... stable bills," Meehan
said. "It is more popular in hindsight when it protects against higher prices
than when it prevents lower prices from taking effect."

At the moment, hedging is not popular. Austin Energy is preparing for a
substantial rate increase - the amount is still being debated by the City
Council, but Austin Energy has proposed an average 20 percent increase for homes
- and speakers at public forums have questioned why the utility's rates are
going up when other utilities' rates are dropping.

Austin Energy now gets about a quarter of its electricity from natural gas; for
the average customer, whose monthly bill this time of year is about $90, the
hedging program is adding less than $3, according to Austin Energy.

But the utility would not provide specifics about the program's long-term effect
on customers' bills - whether it has created a net savings - citing the
possibility that other utilities or gas suppliers could sniff out Austin
Energy's strategies and exploit them.

Some customer groups, including representatives of Homeowners United for Rate
Fairness, cite the lack of recent benefit from natural gas prices as proof that
Austin Energy should be deregulated, so customers can seek out utilities that do
rely more heavily on gas. Those critics generally express confidence that
fracking is indeed the long-term, low-cost energy solution many hope it is and
therefore worth a heavy investment.

"The hedging program may have made sense six or seven years ago," said Roger
Borgelt, chairman of the State Bar of Texas' utility law section. "The issue I
have is, they're still doing it. There is absolutely no market forecast I know
of that says anything but (prices) are going to continue to stay low for at
least the next five years."

Mike Sloan, an Austin-based energy consultant often critical of Austin Energy,
said that the utility has done too much hedging and that it appears to be paying
two to three times more now than it would be on the spot market. "It's just
embarrassing they're this upside down" on gas purchases.

That assessment is disputed by Cary Ferchill, a past president of the Solar
Austin lobbying group who served on an advisory group that two years ago
analyzed Austin Energy's long-term plans.

"What you're seeing now is just the other side of the coin to when gas prices
skyrocketed a few years ago and your bill didn't," Ferchill said. "You have to
look at these things over the long term."

Austin Energy General Manager Larry Weis said the utility has no plans to stop
the hedging program. He said that when measured over the past decade, customers
probably saw a net savings as a result of hedging, as well as benefiting from
more reliable prices.

But Weis also said Austin Energy recently relaxed its hedging policies - meaning
it is somewhat more willing to gamble in the coming years that prices will
remain low, which could soften the rate increase.

Push for renewables

Three years ago, when fracking was an untested technique, Austin Energy decided
that a plan to aggressively invest in renewable sources of power was actually a
less risky bet.

Environmentalism and price projections were the main discussion points as the
city debated and ultimately adopted the Resource and Climate Protection Plan,
which calls for Austin to get 35 percent of its electricity from renewable
sources by 2020.

But a committee of energy wonks also endorsed the plan because most of them
viewed it as a large-scale hedging strategy. In essence, they said Austin's
energy mix should be treated like a mutual fund, with the investment spread
broadly. They came to this conclusion despite the fact that many people thought
such thinking had backfired two years earlier.

Under pressure to look for other sources of electricity, the utility and City
Council agreed to buy expensive power from a wood-burning plant in East Texas,
over the objections of both fiscal conservatives upset about the cost and
activists saying environmental benefits were less than advertised.

But Schmandt, the chairman of the committee that reviewed the 10-year climate
plan, said the broad approach still seemed best at a time when the energy
industry was poised to change in hard-to-predict ways that include:

* The cost of wind and solar is dropping, but how fast that will happen remains
a topic of debate.

* Research into batteries that could store large amounts of wind and solar
energy continues without a breakthrough.

* New techniques for nuclear plant construction remain untested in the U.S.

* The cost of coal could rise significantly with new federal regulations, but
those regulations will be shaped by the national political climate and the
vagaries of the court system.

In early 2010, Schmandt compared the uncertainties - including volatile natural
gas prices, which in 2008 had spiked from about $7 per million British thermal
units to as high as $14 per million Btu - to gathering storm clouds and
concluded, "Not adopting a plan that protects against those future storms is the
equivalent of saying, 'Don't pack a poncho.'" Now, with natural gas under $2 per
million Btu and possibly staying cheap for at least a few years to come,
Schmandt says a heavy investment in natural gas might be preferable.

The main objective of Austin Energy's 10-year plan is to reduce the city's
carbon dioxide emissions. Natural gas emits about half the carbon that coal does
­- making it a lesser contributor to the climate change scientists say is
occurring - and it is now so cheap that it has pushed down coal use in Texas,
according to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas.

Even the Sierra Club is banking to some degree on natural gas. The group is not
openly supportive of gas, mainly because of concerns about fracking's potential
effects on the environment. But its Texas chapter is proposing that Austin rely
heavily on natural gas as a way to cut ties with something it objects to more: a
coal plant in Fayette County that the city co-owns and that produces about a
third of the city's electricity. A large dose of natural gas fills in the
reliability and price gaps created by an aggressive switch from coal to wind and
solar.

Austin Energy is scheduled to finish an analysis this fall about whether it can
cut ties with the Fayette plant - an analysis that will almost certainly be
shaped by assumptions about gas prices.

"The best information says gas prices will stay low for a while," Weis said.
"But there's always something that comes along, like multiple hurricanes in the
Gulf or environmental regulations that could make fracking a lot more
difficult."

Lacking a crystal ball, the question becomes: How much should Austin hedge
against that happening?

Contact Marty Toohey

at 445-3673 S

Digging deeper
 City Hall reporter Marty Toohey has covered Austin Energy for three years. He
has tracked its plans to invest aggressively in renewable energy, a flawed
bidding process for dismantling the Holly Power Plant and the utility's first
proposed base rate increase in 17 years.



LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Wood waste plant to add to electric bills

BYLINE: Marty Toohey mtoohey@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 872 words


At a small ceremony amid the tall pines of East Texas, a handful of Austin
officials watched one of the most unpopular investments in Austin Energy's
history rumble to life Wednesday.

A power plant fueled by wood waste held its official opening after briefly
coming online a few weeks ago. The privately owned plant will sell $2 billion
worth of electricity to Austin Energy for the next 20 years at a price well
above the going rate for competing power sources. It will add $1.94 to the
average home's monthly bill of about $100, according to Austin Energy estimates.

The city-owned utility signed its deal with the "biomass" plant owners in 2008
as part of a plan to aggressively invest in renewable energy and curb the city's
contribution to global climate change. But the deal was based partly on the
expectation that federal taxes would raise the price of carbon-based fuels,
making wood waste seem like a more attractive option. That has not happened.

Even as the plant was being debated in 2008, environmental activists, business
lobbyists, open-government watchdogs and fiscal curmudgeons complained it would
not deliver the promised benefits and that the contract was rushed to unanimous
City Council approval.

"As a green-power advocate, I think we would have been better off investing in
other things," environmental activist Paul Robbins said. "It was a bad deal.
It's way overpriced."

Ward Tisdale, chairman of the Coalition for Clean, Affordable, Reliable Energy,
a consortium of big Austin businesses and nonprofits, said the group is likewise
critical of the deal.

"This project and how it was handled were major reasons (the coalition) was
formed in the first place," Tisdale said. "It was an incredibly expensive
decision made without public discussion."

Nacogdoches Power LLC approached Austin Energy in 2008 about being the sole
buyer of the plant's power. With 100 megawatts of generating capacity, it is
capable of powering about 66,000 homes, according to Austin Energy estimates. It
also appealed to then-Austin Energy General Manager Roger Duncan because it will
run round-the-clock, overcoming the limits of solar and wind power, which do not
produce energy all the time.

At the time, Duncan said the city had to move quickly to secure the deal. But
when the deal was unveiled publicly, open-government activists said the city was
not releasing relevant details, such as the cost. It was later revealed to be a
little more than 9 cents per kilowatt-hour to start, then gradually increasing
to around 16 cents per kilowatt-hour. The average is about 15 cents per
kilowatt-hour over the life of the contract.

That is well above the current cost of natural gas and wind, and probably above
what the utility would have paid for a proposed nuclear plant expansion that
city leaders repeatedly turned down.

Michael Osborne, special assistant to Austin Energy's current and previous
general manager, said the deal seemed reasonable when it was signed.

At the time, hydraulic fracturing was still a relatively unknown method of
drilling for natural gas, and prices were then around 14 cents per
kilowatt-hour, well above today's 2-cent prices. Coastal wind - from which
Austin Energy recently secured 291 megawatts for a little more than 4 cents per
kilowatt-hour - was also a relatively new endeavor in 2008.

Austin Energy and its consultants had expected carbon-capping legislation to add
perhaps 3 cents per kilowatt-hour to the cost of non-renewable energy sources.
(Biomass wouldn't be subject to such a cap, even though the process does produce
carbon emissions.)

Osborne said Congress will still probably pass carbon legislation in the
foreseeable future, "and the biomass plant will make sense again when that
happens."

Osborne also said critics such as the Lone Star Chapter of the Sierra Club have
also underestimated the plant's environmental benefits.

Though burning wood does release carbon into the atmosphere, a tree that falls
in the forest and is left to decompose will ultimately release more carbon than
it would if it were burned at a biomass plant, Osborne said. The carbon is going
to wind up in the atmosphere either way, is not the case with the carbon in coal
or oil, which for the most part is trapped until it's burned.

"That plant will not be releasing carbon that was sequestered millions of years
ago," Osborne said. "The climate-change issue is about adding carbon to the
biosphere. The carbon that will be released was already in the biosphere."

Current Austin Energy General Manager Larry Weis attended the Wednesday ceremony
and said he came away impressed by the operation. He said Austin Energy will not
have to pay if the plant runs short of fuel, and said the contract limits the
plant operators to sawmill, yard and logging waste and prevents them "from
clear-cutting trees to keep it running."

Weis said that with the plant, Austin Energy will be getting a quarter of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2013, well on the way to the city's goal
of 35 percent by 2020.

Still, he said he would not recommend such a deal now.

"The wind contracts available today are so attractive that's the place to
strike"

to reach the city's carbon-

reduction goals, Weis said.

Contact Marty Toohey at

445-3673

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Change came too slowly at Texas

BYLINE: Cedric Golden American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 916 words


Earl Campbell and Darrell Royal went out three weeks ago.

As has been their custom over the years, a cold beer was part of the
festivities. So there they sat - Campbell, Texas' first Heisman Trophy winner,
and Royal, the old coach who famously visited a small East Texas farm nearly 40
years ago to convince Ann Campbell that the University of Texas was the best
place for her son.

The Budweiser flowed at the Broken Spoke that day, but the conversations took a
backseat to just enjoying one another's company. Alzheimer's had robbed Royal of
some of the memories the two shared, but the admiration remained.

Campbell and Royal never joked with one another in their heyday. Royal was a
no-nonsense taskmaster, something Earl respected because it reminded him of his
upbringing.

"I heard all the comments that if I ever went to Texas, I wouldn't make it
because Darrell was a racist," Campbell said late last week. "Over the years, we
talked about that a lot. He told me, 'I never said a black wasn't good enough to
come to my university.' And he said he got tired of having to defend it all the
time."

Royal, who was laid to rest Monday, earned the title as the father of Texas
football. But no discussion of his storied career would be complete without
discussing the emergence of the black football player in college football, and
the changing tide of the recruiting game under his watch.

Royal was one of the country's most respected coaches, as much for his offensive
ingenuity as he was for the discipline with which his teams played. But Royal's
biggest possible regret in a career high on achievement was his reluctance to
actively recruit black players from this state while others, including Oklahoma,
Texas' fierce rival, were at the forefront of helping change the complexion of
college football in the South.

Race has always been hot topic in Texas, and any real discussion of Royal's
career should include his transition from the 1960s to the 1970s, when blacks
became a bigger part of the major college football landscape down here. The
social climate was different in the 1950s and 1960s, but times did change. And
so did many head coaches in the South, who eventually figured out that blacks
had a right to play college football with and against the white players who had
been the face of the game.

Some, like Houston's Bill Yeoman, SMU's Hayden Fry and Oklahoma's Barry Switzer,
who recruited for Sooners head coach Chuck Fairbanks before taking over the
program himself, were quicker to black living rooms while many others in the
South, including Royal and Alabama's Bear Bryant, didn't arrive till later.

"We were recruiting black players at Oklahoma before Texas recruited black
players," Switzer said last week. "They brought the element of speed. I'm not
sure that made me a better coach than Darrell."

In later years, Royal - who coached blacks at the University of Washington and
in the Canadian Football League prior to coming to Texas - lamented the slowness
in the recruitment of blacks.

"If you're saying we should (have integrated) a little sooner, I would agree
with you," Royal said. "All of us (in the Southwest Conference) should have, not
just Texas."

Texas fielded three national championship teams, but signing home-grown talents
like Temple's Joe Greene and Beaumont's Bubba Smith and Jerry LeVias - at a time
when there were unlimited scholarships - could have resulted in more national
titles and added to Royal's legend. Most important, Royal giving more
opportunities to deserving athletes would have sent a positive message in a
changing political climate.

That's part of the reason why I was interested to hear what two of Royal's
prized black recruits had to say about their time with the late coaching legend.

With all due respect to Julius Whittier (Texas' first black letterman, in 1970),
Brenham's Roosevelt Leaks and Tyler's Campbell were transcendent figures in the
history of Texas football, which is ironic because neither played on a national
championship team. Leaks will always be known as Texas' first black superstar,
and his success here changed the perception of the school and its coach, making
Austin a more attractive destination for young blacks like Campbell.

"There was definitely a difference of opinion about the university and coach
Royal when I was coming up," Leaks told me last week. "Negative recruiting
happened at times. I probably gave some thought to not signing there and going
to Houston instead, but I heard some of the same things in high schools with
people calling me bad names and stuff. I wanted to play at Texas, and that's why
I came here."

Leaks signed and became a star. On a fall day in 1973, Campbell - a high school
senior - watched Leaks rush for 342 yards against SMU on a small black-and-white
television in his parents' living room.

"After that game, I wanted to be Roosevelt Leaks," Campbell told me a day after
Royal passed. "Earl and Ricky (Williams) may have a statue in front of the
university, but they're missing one more. (Leaks) set the foundation for the
black kids. He deserves a statue."

The reasons for Royal's resistance to recruit black players - whether it was
political pressure from his bosses, personal preference, or just plain old fear
of being labeled a turncoat by the old establishment - are debatable.

It just goes to show that even the greatest of football coaches aren't perfect.

Royal was a tremendous football coach. But he was also human.

Contact Cedric Golden at 912-5944. Twitter: @cedgolden

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Council eyes coal plant sale

BYLINE: Marty Toohey mtoohey@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 702 words


The Austin City Council took a first step Thursday toward selling the city's
share of a coal-fueled power plant that provides a third of Austin's
electricity.

In a preliminary decision that will have to be confirmed in two weeks, the
council decided to ask voters in November to change a portion of the city
charter that may bar selling power plants and other utility properties. The
change would allow the city to put a proposal to sell its share of the Fayette
power plant on the ballot at some point in the future.

Environmental activists have been pushing for years for a divorce between the
city and the coal plant, which is a cheap source of electricity but emits more
carbon into the atmosphere than all of Austin's cars combined. Selling would
help the city carry out an ambitious plan to curb its contribution to global
climate change.

The city staff is expected to present a plan this fall for selling or shutting
down Austin's portion of the plant. It's not clear how much that would cost, but
it would be highly controversial, hotly contested and polarizing.

And there is still debate among council members about what requirements the city
should have to meet before selling Fayette or similar assets.

Six council members voted to require a referendum. Some of them echoed the
concerns of activists who, remembering attempts in the 1980s and 1990s to sell
the city-owned water and electric utilities, say the council alone should not be
able to make such sweeping decisions.

But Mayor Lee Leffing­well said requiring a referendum for major utility
decisions would be too onerous given the pace of the modern electric industry.
Leffingwell said other charter requirements would keep voters from deciding on
Fayette until late 2014, adding that having to secure voter approval would also
complicate already complex negotiations.

"It could have a definite dollar-and-cents impact," said Leffingwell, who has
pledged to move Austin off coal if financially feasible.

The Fayette plant is 83 miles southeast of Austin. It is co-owned by the city
and Lower Colorado River Authority, which has said it will not sell Fayette and
might be interested in buying Austin's share.

The Sierra Club has been pushing particularly hard for Austin to stop using
coal, and says it has a financially sound plan to replace Fayette with wind,
solar and a heavy dose of natural gas.

Roger Borgelt, an energy lawyer often critical of city decisions, disagrees with
that plan but sided with environmental activists in saying any decision to sell
Fayette should be done via referendum. He said selling would be pointless
because the plant would continue operating, just with a different owner.

"If you sell Fayette," Borgelt said, "you lose a stable and cheap source of
power."

Borgelt is also a member of Homeowners United for Rate Fairness, a group of
suburban Austin Energy customers who say the utility is run inefficiently and is
fighting a rate increase scheduled to take effect in October.

On Thursday, the group said it had filed an appeal with the state's Public
Utility Commission, and has also said it would fight the increase at the state
Legislature - a case its leaders think would be easier to pitch to conservative
lawmakers if Austin cuts ties with the coal plant.

Leffingwell said the Legislature is actually a main reason not to tie major
Austin Energy decisions to a referendum. Doing so, he said, would make the
utility function less like a business and draw unwanted attention from lawmakers
who sometimes take a dim view of Austin's often-slow and sometimes-fussy way of
conducting its affairs.

"My motivation is to be sure that (Austin Energy) continues to be a municipally
owned utility," Leffingwell said, adding, in reference to the council's Thursday
decision, "I don't think this gets us there."

Others say speed has not worked in the city's favor.

Noting that the city rushed to sign an expensive and almost universally
unpopular deal in 2008 to buy expensive electricity from a biomass power plant
near Nacogdoches, Austin Sierra Club Vice Chairman Roy Waley told the council:
"Sometimes when a deal seems too good to be true, it turns out to be the
wood-burning plant in East Texas."

Contact Marty Toohey at 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 12, 2012 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1010 words


Super PACs failed

Re: Nov. 7 article, "Obama triumphs in nation divided."

Make no Mittstake, Obama's win is proof that America's vote is still not for
sale. A behemoth $6 billion was spent on this election because citizens didn't
vigorously protest campaign spending. The Supreme Court foolishly allowed the
creation of super PACs and then gave them tax-exempt status. By deploying
distorting sound bites, super PACs influence logical thinking, playing on greed
and fear thus weakening power of the people resulting in voter
disenfranchisement.

Moving forward, American citizens must become better informed to recognize when
to fight back against the power plays designed to divide American citizens. We
need to come together and keep Americans fully informed about the outcomes they
are voting for which is always about somebody's civil rights. Nobody should be
an undecided voter in October, let alone Election Day.

Cyndi and Will High

chigh@austin.rr.com

Dripping Springs

Voting for all

The disgraceful voter suppression efforts inflicted on voters in
Republican-controlled states can be prevented in future presidential and
congressional elections. We need a new federal law that covers federal elections
and requires plenty of early voting days/hours (including the final weekend),
adequate voting locations spaced proportionally throughout the state's
population, and plenty of voting machines at each polling place.

For states that require photo IDs, the states must provide plenty of convenient,
year-round locations (and perhaps mobile units) where folks without a driver's
license can secure a state-issued photo ID without charge.

Shudde Faith

Austin

Not-so great America

I've never felt more despair for my country. We've just passed over a leader who
has excelled in every facet of life. A remarkable family built on values and
example. An unselfish pastor to his faith community. A wildly successful CEO in
private industry. A bipartisan governor in public service. A man who has built
wealth honestly and shared wealth openly through generous philanthropy.
Leadership simply doesn't come in a more obvious package than this.

I've always believed this is what America aspired to be. I thought surely the
misguided paths toward institutionalized mediocrity, collectivism and secularism
would be rejected. But I was wrong. The direction we've chosen is "hold your
hand out" rather than "follow my lead." On Tuesday, America unwittingly, but
ceremoniously, slaughtered its identity. I'm crushed, because that same day, I
was forced to accept the reality we will not be great again in my lifetime.

David Schwarzbach

Austin

Has GOP learned lesson?

President Barack Obama is not only the first black president, but President
Obama was elected for a second term with the highest unemployment rate since
Franklin Delano Roosevelt was re-elected for his second term. Despite Obama's
stunning victory, it takes two, and the only way for change to occur is if the
Republicans are willing to compromise. Nevertheless, Republicans are their own
worst enemy. It's their "my way or the highway attitude" ... intolerance of
immigrants and gays and their wanting to control women's reproductive organs -
which cost them the White House. Although, if they haven't learned their lesson
yet, more lost elections could be in their future.

JoAnn Lee Frank

Clearwater, Fla.

Ear-splitting 'Fun'

Fun Fun Fun Fest is a pain, pain, pain for those living near Auditorium Shores.
With nearly 10,000 residents downtown, many living near this venue, the noise
coming from a gazillion watts pumped through 10-foot speakers by multiple bands
is cruel and unusual punishment. What we hear in our homes is an electronic
cacophony of multiple bands playing all at once with over-amplified drums
pulsating for 12 hours a day.

I don't have a problem with music fans having a good time but I ask, would
anyone enjoy 36 hours of multiple amplified drumming with multi-pitched bands
playing all at once?

Frank MacDougal

frankmacdougal@aol.com

Austin

Climate-change hooey

Re: Nov. 7 commentary, "In wake of Sandy, it's time to attack climate change."

The column is the same old global warming alarmism seen after Hurricane Katrina.
The message is that we are causing storms to be worse by using fossil fuels. We
have storm data going back for over 100 years, and that data has been analyzed.
As of yet, there is no correlation between warming and the frequency and
intensity of storms. Further, Chris Landsea of National Oceanographic predicts
that further warming will not significantly increase wind speeds in the storms.
Instead of spending all this money on green energy, maybe we should build sea
walls around our major port cities.

Richard Quinn

N182TJ@aol.com

Austin

Defend women's rights

Re: Nov. 8 letter to the editor, "Abortion legal."

Hooray to the author and her letter. Much like the days of the suffrage movement
and what it took for those women to win the simple right to vote like any other
human being (man).

I was part of the '70s fight for women's right to equality in the job market,
pay scale, lending practices, and a whole host of other issues.

In Roe v. Wade, we also were granted by law the right to decide about our own
bodies and with our own personal conscience, what we would do regarding unwanted
pregnancies.

Unable to outright overturn this monumental decision, the men in politics are
chipping away at these rights. One way we can change this tide is by defeating
these political zealots who think they are the voice of God. Thanks to the
author for bringing it to our attention in writing.

Rose Pace

Georgetown

Lethal DWIs

Re: Nov. 8 aricle, "Road deaths a daily occurrence."

According to this article, 41,252 people have died in fatal traffic accidents in
Texas during the past 12 years and that alcohol use was a major factor in these
deaths.

When a drunken driver is charged with intoxication manslaughter, I recommend
withholding half of their wages or earnings for the rest of their lives and
giving it to the family of the person(s) they killed.

Gene Swanberg

geswan@sbcglobal.net

Pflugervillef

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2012



CORRECTION: Shudde Fath's name was misspelled in a letter to the editor Monday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 14, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Water is weighty subject of SXSW film

BYLINE: Farzad Mashhood fmashhood@statesman.com AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 431 words


About 10 years ago, Jay Famiglietti's colleagues at the University of Texas
asked him to help remove some static on a satellite image of the Earth.

The UT geophysicists working with the Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment
satellites, an international program that includes NASA researchers, were
finding huge changes in gravity that were not useful to their research.

It turned out those changes in gravity were caused by changes in fresh water,
something Famiglietti, now a professor at the University of California at
Irvine, has been researching ever since.

It is also the central point to "Last Call at the Oasis," a documentary being
screened this morning and Thursday afternoon at the South by Southwest Film
Conference and Festival.

The film looks at the issues of water quality and quantity, primarily in the
United States, through personal stories and scientific research, producer Elise
Pearlstein said.

Famiglietti's research is particularly important, she said, in explaining water
quantity issues.

"Water is so heavy that when it moves, it affects the Earth's gravity,"
Famiglietti said.

So, as underground aquifers - primarily in the semiarid middle latitudes of the
planet - emptied over time, the satellites picked up the changes in the Earth's
weight.

Famiglietti said parts of the world are running out of groundwater because
people are using it too quickly.

Water, of course, comes and goes with the seasons, so it's important to track
changes over years, Famiglietti said. For example, if he sees an area where the
annual low of groundwater availability is dropping, that points to depletion,
Famiglietti said.

"It's a huge problem because most of that water we use to grow food, and humans
need to do that," he said.

Researchers have been unable to determine how much groundwater is in the world.
While Famiglietti's research shows how quickly humans use groundwater, there's
still the unanswered question of how much the planet has left.

Not knowing that, Pearlstein said, makes it hard to plan how much water to use.

"It's pretty easy to overdraw your bank account if you don't see your balance,"
she said.

As for the water quality problem, Pearlstein said, the film shows how groups of
people around the country hold industries and governmental agencies accountable
for preserving water quality.

Contact Farzad Mashhood at 445-3972 360

'Last Call at the Oasis'
 Today: 11 a.m., Paramount Theatre, 713 Congress Ave.
 Thursday: 2 p.m., Alamo Drafthouse Cinema, 1120 S. Lamar Blvd.
 Badgeholders and film pass-holders have free admission. Remaining seats will
be on sale for $10 each.



LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'C' in science not enough for our kids

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 823 words


When pondering Texas education, it's almost impossible not to hum a little Sam
Cooke.

"Don't know much about history," one of the late singer's hits went, "" don't
know much about a science book. Don't know much about the French I took."

In rating Texas' science curriculum, Thomas B. Fordham Institute researchers
gave it a "C." Incredibly, that bit of mediocre news was considered good. At
least the science curriculum didn't suffer the blistering that the social
science standards got when Fordham researchers evaluated them last year or
repeat the "F" science standards got in 2005.

Fordham is a Washington, D.C., think tank dedicated to raising the country's
educational standards. The think tank leans conservative but prides itself on
its independence. Their reports are well-written, well-regarded and recommended
reading for business recruiters and policy wonks alike.

Reading through the evaluation of Texas science curriculum standards is a
mini-education all its own.

Institute evaluators opened with a compliment: "Texas has produced a set of
science standards with areas of strength - including a particularly well-done
sequence for earth and space science ""

That was the molasses. Then came the medicine: "" but also with weaknesses that
cannot be overlooked. These include a tendency across nearly all disciplines to
pay lip service to critical content with vague statements, and, somewhat less
often, the presence of material that's well below grade level."

On the other hand, Fordham evaluators heaped praised on the state's approach to
climate change. "To its credit, Texas also dispassionately and unapologetically
introduces students to global warming, a political hot potato in many places."

On the equally polarizing question of evolution, the raters were troubled that
Texas students from kindergarten through fifth grade get minimal exposure to
evolution. "The middle school standards are marginally better but still
problematic. For example, seventh-graders should learn that:

"'Populations and species demonstrate variation and inherit many of their unique
traits through gradual processes over many generations.' Unfortunately, this is
simply wrong. Traits are inherited directly at each generation; there's nothing
gradual about it. Students are then asked to explain variation within a
population or species by examining external features that enhance survival. Such
examinations will yield no explanation of variation."

You might recall that the science standards were the subject of intense debate
in 2009 as members of the State Board of Education made the topic a landing zone
in the culture wars.

Don McLeroy, then chairman of the 15-member panel, and the ultra-conservatives
he led pushed standards that critics said were tantamount to teaching
creationism.

"Somebody's got to stand up to experts," McLeroy said then. Revisions were
handled hurriedly. They were often hand-written and shoved under board members'
doors with little time for reflection. Academic experts in the subject areas
appointed by the board were all too often ignored.

After all the sound and the fury, not much changed in the curriculum standards.
The disputed language was not adopted.

"The state's current high school biology standards handle the subject
straightforwardly," the institute evaluators wrote. "There are no concessions to
'controversies' or 'alternative theories.' In fact, the high school biology
course is exemplary in its choice and presentation of topics, including its
thorough consideration of biological evolution." Nonetheless, the lack of
preparation before high school makes it "hard to see how Texas students will be
able to handle this course," the evaluators wrote.

The furor proved costly to McLeroy. The Texas Senate failed to confirm his
appointment as chairman, and he lost his board seat in the 2010 Republican
primary.

Given the historical context, a "C" isn't bad, but it's nothing to celebrate.
The rating raises questions about the concentration of oversight power the board
exercises. Since McLeroy left the board, the panel has made changes in adopting
curriculum standards but that might not be enough.

The state's 254 counties are represented by 15 people elected by a handful of
voters. Legislators should consider increasing the number of seats on the board
in the interests of a broader representation.

At the very least, the Legislature should send the same message to the state
board that parents would deliver to their children: A "C" just won't do. Even
though only 13 states got a better grade than Texas, the state needs to do
better than just get by.

Just as Texas students are competing globally for jobs in the future, Texas is
competing for job-creating businesses and industries that have the right to
demand better than a C-student work force.

Fordham Institute
 Read the report: edexcellencemedia.net/publications/2012/2012-State-of-State-
Science-Standards/2012-State-Science-Standards-Texas.pdf



LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 11, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

All hail the mighty Stampede: Open science gets big new ally

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf kladendorf@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 1301 words


At the entrance to the room in North Austin that houses the biggest and newest
supercomputer in Texas, there is an obvious sign of what to expect inside - a
box full of earplugs.

The computer called Stampede is loud.

VERY LOUD.

The noise comes partly from more than 6,000 computer servers working away in a
tight space, but mostly it comes from the huge cooling system that is operating
at full roar to keep those servers and other machines in this computer cluster
from overheating.

Some employees at the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) - the
supercomputing research arm of the University of Texas - wear noise-canceling
headphones while they work in the computer room.

Stampede, which costs $27.5 million, will move into formal production in January
as one of the world's most powerful computers devoted to "open science"
research. Funds for the machine came from the National Science Foundation, which
awarded the project to TACC and its partners, Dell Inc. and Intel Corp., in a
formal competition. The National Science Foundation also is expected to supply
funds to keep the big machine operating for at least four years.

The total cost of the machine and its operating expenses is expected to run
about $50 million over that time. The funds will come from the NSF as part of
its "eXtreme Digital" program for making high-performance computers available to
U.S. researchers.

For scientists with the requisite computer software skills, Stampede offers the
chance to pursue complex science problems with more detail and complexity than
they formerly could. The machine will deliver 20 times the peak performance of
its predecessor at TACC, Ranger, which is scheduled to end its career in early
February after five years.

One of the researchers waiting to use the new machine is University of Texas
geoscientist Omar Ghattas, who uses powerful computers to study the minute
details of simulated earthquakes and to create models that track how molten rock
can circulate before the earth's surface and help influence the gradual movement
of the continents.

"Stampede is a game-changer," Ghattas said recently. "Excited is an
understatement. We can't wait to get our hands on it."

Because it is backed by the National Science Foundation, Stampede will be
devoted to a wide range of scientific research. A panel of experts will review
proposals from researchers around the country to use 90 percent of the machine's
allocated capacity. The remaining 10 percent will be allocated by TACC Director
Jay Boisseau.

Ghattas expects the new machine will be used for earth science research that
involves global climate change simulations. The simulations will be tied to
complex simulations of how massive ice sheets are slowly moving into the sea and
raising the level of the world's oceans. Ghattas said he believes Stampede will
have the horsepower to work on those sorts of immense computing problems and
deliver finer-grained results than previous computers could.

Similar open-science computers have been used for everything from finding new
insights on cancer to studying how individual human cells behave. The fields of
research assisted by supercomputing in recent years include particle physics,
astronomy, complex chemistry, molecular bioscience, earth science, materials
science and atmospheric science.

Boisseau says the computer will be a powerful instrument that will enable new
kinds of scientific advances, in the same way that powerful microscopes and
telescopes have been able to do.

"New technologies enable you to see the world in new ways," Boisseau said. New
computers, he said, allow scientists to build more complex models of everything
from tiny cells to global climate patterns and so gain new insights. "Sometimes
you pass some resolution thresholds and you see things in an entirely different
way."

But to use the new machine more effectively, research teams will have to make
sure they can expand the scope of their software programs to take advantage of
the opportunity to have thousands of processing "cores" working away at big
problems at once.

Some science research teams are gifted at adapting their software to complex new
machines, while others need more help. Part of TACC's assignment is to give each
team the training it needs to use the new machine effectively.

Ghattas and his team don't need much training to get to work on the new
computer.

"Omar Ghattas is brilliant and innovative and adapts to new systems well,"
Boisseau said. "He is a great scientist and he has a team that adjusts to these
new systems quickly. Give him a new system and he will do breakthrough science
that is very cool, very quickly."

Over four years, Boisseau expects Stampede will be used by more than 1,000
research teams on their advanced science projects. The new computer is a shared
national resource, so most of the researchers who use it will be from outside
the University of Texas.

Boisseau said he expects that many of the researchers who already have access to
Ranger, the older computer nearing the end of its career, will be shifted to the
new machine.

If the TACC team does its work well and Stampede is judged a success by the
National Science Foundation, then it could be awarded a follow-on project to
create a next-generation machine based on a similar architecture in four years.
That would keep TACC at the forefront of scientific supercomputing for the
better part of a decade.

TACC worked closely with both Dell and Intel to win the bidding for the new
computer project and to put it together in North Austin. High-performance
computing projects, especially high-profile ones such as Stampede, can be a
source of prestige to tech companies such as Dell and Intel and also a source of
future business. Analyst Roger Kay of Endpoint Technologies Associates said
involvement in big science projects can give companies such as Dell a "halo
effect," that gives them better credibility in selling systems to its
bread-and-butter business enterprise customers.

The machine features more than 6,000 Dell Zeus servers powered by Intel Xeon E5
processor chips. Intel also supplied TACC with an undisclosed number of its new
co-processor cards, called MICs, which stands for "many integrated cores." The
key chip on the coprocessor cards, which Intel calls Xeon Phi, contains more
than 50 small processing cores that can work away at small parts of a complex
problem. The method is called massive parallel processing, and it works when
software can break a big problem into many small sections that can be solved at
the same time.

Other high-performance computers try to accomplish much the same thing by using
high-end graphics processors. Stampede is expected to be one of most important
installations for Intel's new MIC technology, which is part of Intel's push to
become a stronger player in high-performance computing, said analyst Patrick
Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy.

Boisseau said his team's tight partnership with Dell and Intel was essential .

"Intel and Dell really found this project to be cool," he said. "We had Dell and
Intel people in the building every day. They have been a tremendous help to us."

When it is completed in December, Stampede is expected to achieve peak
performance of roughly 10 quadrillion operations per second. In a few years, the
computer is expected to get another boost in performance, because Intel has
agreed to provide it with about 1,600 of its next-generation MIC co-processor
cards.

As it stands, Boisseau said, the new computer offers both world-class
performance as well as a balanced structure that allows it to be used for many
kinds of science research.

"No one system can be everything to everybody," Boisseau said. "But we have
configured Stampede to be a hell of a system that will be most things to most
people."

Contact Kirk Ladendorf at 445-3622.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

6 vie for 3 council spots

BYLINE: Ciara O'Rourke corourke@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 777 words


SAN MARCOS - After months of contentious City Council meetings, three incumbents
have drawn challengers for their seats in an election that is being shaped by
efforts to protect the San Marcos River and neighborhoods.

Community debate over whether a high-density development should be allowed in a
predominantly single-family neighborhood lasted months before council members
voted against the zoning change needed by developers.

The issue sparked a lasting interest in the council's actions, with continued
protests against other zoning changes and support for an expansion of city
parkland, a proposal that appears on November's ballot.

"A lot of people had become kind of apathetic and were just putting up with the
status quo, but when large student housing developments began popping up in
single-family neighborhoods, you never knew whose neighborhood was next," said
Melissa Derrick, an administrative assistant at Texas State University who's
running against Council Member Ryan Thomason as a write-in candidate. "Everybody
woke up and took a really hard look at City Council."

Derrick said she didn't want Thomason to go unopposed after he voted in support
of the high-density development. She proposes building student housing in areas
east of Interstate 35 already zoned for multifamily housing.

Thomason, a contractor and real estate broker who served on the city's planning
and zoning commission before he was elected to the council in 2009, said he
wants to finish several projects now under way, including revising the city's
comprehensive master plan.

He said he'd like to see more multifamily, single-family and commercial
developments, noting that "as the university grows, there's going to need to be
housing."

Council Member Shane Scott described himself as pro-growth and said those who
have opposed recent developments are trying to stop growth - something he said
is inevitable.

"They're a vocal group, and they like to rally, but they're not the majority of
people, who want growth in this town," he said.

Scott, a filmmaker and business owner, said the city needs to prepare for the
continued growth of the university.

After joining the council in 2010, Scott is trying to fend off Greg Frank, who
works in sales at a local landscaping store.

Frank said he wants to see development that not only accommodates the growing
student population but also supports middle- and higher-income residents.

"I want to try to maintain the beauty and integrity of rivers and parks and
neighborhoods," he said.

Mayor Daniel Guerrero, the executive director of the San Marcos Education
Foundation, has said the city's success hinges on bolstering education. He said
he's concerned that students are unprepared for state tests and not pursuing
higher education, so he is pushing for open enrollment for all pre-kindergarten
students in San Marcos.

Challenging Guerrero, who's seeking a second term, is Thom Prentice, a former
teacher and professor.

Prentice said he's running to bring attention to global warming, among other
climate-related issues, which would influence his decisions from the dais.

He also said he'd try to change a requirement that residents serving on the
city's planning and zoning commission must have owned real estate for at least
three years.

"That creates an instant 1 percent on the planning and zoning commission," he
said. "The skids are greased for every corporation that wants to come in, and
that ruins hometown San Marcos."

Three nonbinding propositions related to the city acquiring more parkland are at
the bottom of the ballot to gauge residents' interest and under what
circumstances they'd be willing to add to the city's public riverfront.

The first proposition asks voters whether the city should acquire about 70 acres
of San Marcos riverfront east of Interstate 35 for park purposes. The subsequent
propositions ask voters whether the city should use eminent domain or raise
property taxes to secure the site.

Contact Ciara O'Rourke at 512-392-8750.

ON THE BALLOT
 * Three nonbinding propositions concerning whether the city should acquire
about 70 acres of parkland and whether it should use eminent domain or raise
property taxes to acquire that land if necessary.
 * Three City Council elections:
 Mayor
 Daniel Guerrero (incumbent)
 Thom Prentice
 Council Member, Place 5
 Melissa Derrick
(write-in)
 Ryan Thomason (incumbent)
 Council Member, Place 6
 Greg Frank
 Shane Scott (incumbent)


WHAT'S NEXT
 The San Marcos Area League of Women Voters will host a debate for Hays County
and San Marcos candidates at 6:30 p.m. Monday at the San Marcos Activity
Center, 501 E. Hopkins St. Audience members will be able to ask questions as
time allows.



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 884 words


Protecting Texans

Re: June 27 article, "Greenhouse gas limits upheld."

Once again, the courts have spoken in favor of limiting the dangerous carbon
pollution that fuels global warming. The even better news is that the
Environmental Protection Agency is about to set common-sense limits on the
largest sources of this pollution - if polluters and their allies in Congress
don't obstruct progress.

The June 26 ruling said the E PA was "unambiguously correct" in its
determination that the Clean Air Act required EPA to limit emissions . The
science is undeniable that carbon pollution fuels climate change, which leads to
dirty air that threatens the health of Texans .

Thankfully, EPA is developing carbon pollution limits this summer for new power
plants, cars and light trucks . But polluters and some in Congress are trying to
stop EPA from doing its job . Enough is enough. Environment Texas applauds EPA
for working to protect Texans , and urges Texas' elected officials to do the
same.

Jill Capotosto

Austin

NAACP objective

Re: June 28 article, "Civil rights groups ask U.S. to re-examine Austin police."

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's repeated
complaints remind me of the movie, "Blazing Saddles," where Gov. William J. Le
Petomane says, "We gotta protect our phony-baloney jobs!"

Apparently, the NAACP can't seem to grasp that the Austin Police Department is
simply trying to do the thankless job of protecting them from the predators in
their midst.

The complaint is obviously just an attempt to prove to the group's dwindling
constituency that it is still relevant. If it were really concerned about
people's welfare, it would be trying to assist APD in weeding out these
miscreants.

Mike Looby

Round Rock

Fayette fate

There is no question that coal plants are the largest source of soot pollution.
Soot is a dangerous mix of metals, chemicals, and acid that gets into the air by
burning dirty fuels like coal. Our Fayette coal-fired plant actually kills
people in Fayette County. Soot is just a fraction of the width of a human hair!

It easily lodges deep inside our lungs, enters our blood and goes straight to
every organ. It causes heart attacks, strokes, asthma attacks, cancer and
premature death. It especially harms the young and elderly. The Environmental
Protection Agency has just proposed new standards to limit the soot from coal
plants. I support this. I value the lives of Fayette County citizens as much as
ours here in Austin.

Deborah Daues

Austin

Image isn't everything

I am tired of hearing about "Austin's image." How shallow is it to focus on
image but not substance?

It would be nice if the powers that be paid more attention to making Austin a
good place to live for its taxpaying residents.

Barbara Wisdom

Austin

Independent Louisiana

Strangely, I was already thinking about states' rights and how nonsensical they
are in the age of airplanes and television, when Lousiana Gov. Bobby Jindal
began talking about Louisiana opting out of a nationwide health care system.

Is he going to insist on Louisiana's independence from the United States of
America the next time there's a hurricane like Katrina?

States' rights obviously made sense in the early days of the republic, when days
separated colonies because of how far you could go in a day in a covered wagon.

I've traveled across a lot of state lines, including before the days of the
interstate highways. There were states, and Louisiana is still one, where even
the interstate was a disgrace. I don't think Jindal would like to miss out on
any tourists because of being so "independent." Maybe this is a time when a
boycott might be instructional.

Arizona is another state that could use a lesson.

Sharon H. Locke

Austin

Gas silence

For months, as gas prices were rising, Republicans placed the increase squarely
on President Barack Obama.

They cited the Keystone XL pipeline debate, "burdensome" regulations and a
supposed war on energy. Industry experts pointed out that gas prices are based
on the global oil market, and that the main culprits were global supply and
demand, and unrest in the Mideast.

More recently, global growth has slowed and the Mideast has quieted down. Guess
what?

Gas prices are down 60 cents in less than three months. And what have we heard
from Republican lawmakers? Not a peep.

Isn't it a shame when facts get in the way of a political narrative?

Lonny Gorban

Austin

Shifting focus

It was interesting to watch the political reaction to the recent Supreme Court
decision regarding the health care act. Prior to the decision, the right (and
our vocal Texas leadership) was confident the law was totally unconstitutional.
However, now that a decision has been made, this same group decries the
"left-leaning" chief justice, a George W. Bush appointee.

The right did not get their way, yet states, "I have just begun to fight"
(Attorney General Greg Abbott). I find it disingenuous that both parties
grandstand yet do little to solve the real problems of this nation, choosing
instead to focus on "doing the other side in."

All the while we have crumbling infrastructure, decreased educational
opportunities, health issues, an unbalanced budget and runaway corporate
interests. One simple question: When are our politicians actually going to work
for us, the people?

David Price

dpaustex@aol.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Should utility be run by city?

BYLINE: Marty Toohey mtoohey@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2393 words


When the Austin City Council finally agrees on how much to raise electric rates
- possibly as soon as June 7 - a contentious, 21/2-year saga will come to a
close. But another debate is likely to follow: Who should run Austin Energy?

Three City Council members plan to put that question to their peers. Though the
city-owned utility has shouldered much of the blame for what critics say has
been an unacceptable rate proposal and unproductive debate over it, there is a
sense among some in City Hall and elsewhere that inattention by council members
led to many of the problems.

Austin Energy executives had warned their City Council bosses in 2006, 2007 and
2009 that a rate increase would be needed because of rising costs. But the
message was delivered in understated terms unsuited to catching the attention of
elected officials dealing with the myriad issues of a fast-growing city.

It was only when then-General Manager Roger Duncan finally delivered a stark and
unusually blunt warning in late 2009 about the seemingly unthinkable - that the
utility was going broke - that the council got the message.

Now, with the utility's credit rating in doubt and customers preparing for a
sudden spike in bills, some critics are calling for the council to give
oversight of Austin Energy to a separate board, similar to the structure of San
Antonio's electric utility.

Council members haven't indicated that they're ready for such a radical change.

But Council Members Sheryl Cole, Chris Riley and Bill Spelman acknowledge that
it probably needs to be addressed as part of their coming proposal to give one
or two suburban customers a vote, along with the council, on Austin Energy
policy decisions.

These council members hope that change would disarm critics who say that because
customers living outside Austin cannot vote for the council, they lack a voice
in charting the course of the only utility allowed to serve them under Austin
Energy's monopoly.

But such suggestions are sure to meet stiff resistance from Austin activists,
who vow to fight any changes that they think dilute the influence of Austin
voters over the utility they own. They say their complaints about Austin Energy
are not rooted in how the utility is governed but merely in the people governing
it.

Ultimately, the debate comes down to a straightforward question: Should the
council continue setting policy for a billion-dollar enterprise at the forefront
of one of the world's most complex industries?

Nonutility spending

For much of the past two decades, as Austin Energy ran high profit margins, its
day-to-day operations received relatively little public attention.

The utility maintained rates among the lowest in Texas. Yet it still amassed
$267 million in cash reserves, aided largely by the city's population boom,
which brought new homes and businesses that were valuable customers.

The utility also helped Austin establish a reputation as possibly the nation's
most environmentally minded city. At times, Austin Energy's landmark GreenChoice
program sold wind power at prices that dipped below conventionally generated
electricity.

To cement this green reputation, then-Mayor Will Wynn worked closely with Duncan
in 2007 to craft the Climate Protection Plan, but this led the utility to pursue
two relatively expensive sources of renewable energy, which are only now
starting to appear on customers' bills: an East Texas wood-waste plant and a
solar array in Webberville.

Perhaps most important to city officials, Austin Energy accomplished all of this
while sending 9.1 percent of its revenue into the city's general fund.

This transfer, which most public utilities have in some form, pays for about 20
percent of city spending on services such as parks, roads and police, and now
totals more than $100 million. It also allows the City Council to charge
homeowners a lower property tax rate.

But in 2007, Austin Energy's surpluses began to shrink - a sign that, while the
utility was still on sound financial footing, the ground was starting to shift.
Costs were rising. Mounting issues went unaddressed.

For instance, the utility's transfer to the city's general fund rose 38 percent
between 2006 and this year partly because it is based on a formula blind to
rising costs.

Austin Energy also became an increasingly tempting place to look for extra cash
beyond the transfer. Community sponsorships and environmental initiatives found
their way onto the utility's books, as did the city's economic development
office during a budget crunch in 2003.

The utility pays for the city's street lights, an arrangement virtually
identical to one that Washington state's Supreme Court called an illegal
"revenue-raising ploy" and ordered Seattle to stop in 2003.

Austin Energy's nonutility spending rose to as much as $80 million, in addition
to the $100 million transfer - even as the utility shot through most of its
reserves to cover budget shortfalls as high as $86 million in 2010.

This spending has long rankled suburban customers, who promise to call it to the
attention of both state regulators and a Legislature that often does not share
Austin's sensibilities.

Many Austinites counter that such spending is an appropriate benefit of the
city's residents owning their utility. The spending will probably not be
eliminated - doing so would wreak havoc with the city's finances - but the
council spent years avoiding other ways to deal with the rising costs.

A rate increase is never popular with voters, after all, and City Council
elections happen two out of every three years.

Nearby example

In San Antonio, by contrast, the governing board of the city's electric utility
is more insulated from political pressures.

CPS Energy, which is owned by the City of San Antonio, is governed by the mayor
and four other directors who have backgrounds in finance, corporate management
or other relevant experience. When one retires or reaches the limit of two
four-year terms, the remaining board members select a replacement.

Most of the decision-making lies with the board, including the utility's budget;
the council's main role is ratifying rate increase requests and bond elections.

It is not a common arrangement in Texas, but similar structures are used by
major utilities in other parts of the country, including Los Angeles, home of
the nation's largest public utility.

Austin-based energy lawyer Roger Borgelt contends that a utility the size of
Austin Energy should have San Antonio-style governance.

A frequent critic of the Austin City Council, Borgelt said a board removes the
immediate political pressures and temptations - for example, it is the CPS board
that decides how much to transfer to San Antonio's general fund.

"You have people governing the utility who know what they're doing, frankly, and
you can free up the City Council for their other jobs," Borgelt said. "We've
become too big a city for them to be intimately involved in every issue."

Cole, Riley and Spelman are leaning a different way. They say that the council
should probably maintain its direct control over Austin Energy but that a
suburban customer or two should vote alongside council members on utility
matters.

Spelman said the arrangement would give the suburban customer a greater voice
while preserving the pressure to listen to the community, which he thinks makes
Austin Energy more in sync with its owners.

If not for that pressure, Spelman said, he, Riley and Cole might not have
modified Austin Energy's controversial rate proposal in a way that quelled some
critics while providing enough money to satisfy the utility's budget managers.
The council is expected to vote on that plan June 7.

A CPS-style board "is not a bad idea," Spelman said. "But it would be harder to
do because it would require an amendment to the city charter. I think the main
thing is that we share responsibility for governing our utility with our fellow
ratepayers in Lakeway, Steiner Ranch, Del Valle and the other areas (outside
Austin that) Austin Energy serves."

Others are leery of this approach. Bill Oakey, a consumer advocate and former
Electric Utility Commission member, notes that suburban customers can - and
probably will - appeal a rate increase to the state's Public Utility Commission,
which could reduce the size of the increase for the approximately 50,000
customers outside the city limits.

"Will these citizens give up their right to appeal (in exchange) for a seat on
the governing board of the utility? Not likely," Oakey said - a sentiment echoed
by Council Members Laura Morrison and Kathie Tovo.

Complex debate

Normally, the City Council relies on volunteer boards and commissions to sort
through complicated issues, or at least clarify them.

It took a year after Duncan's stunning speech to the City Council about the
utility's bleak financial outlook for the process of raising rates to begin.
Austin Energy executives then set up an elaborate public input process, aware
that an electric rate increase would be complex and contentious.

It turned out to be mind-boggling.

For instance, even the common shorthand - that Austin Energy had not raised
rates since 1994 - was useful but not technically accurate. Rates had meandered
upward in concert with the cost of buying the fuels for the utility's power
plants, and this increase was reflected in the fuel charge portion of the bill.
It was the base rate that had not been raised, or the portion of the bill that
pays for the poles, wires, salaries and most everything else. Customers were
justifiably confused.

After months of meetings and number-crunching, Austin Energy proposed increasing
rates an average of 12.5 percent to raise an additional $126 million, which its
executives said is necessary to make ends meet and replenish its reserves.

A wide range of criticisms followed from all sides. Suburban customers
complained that the steeply tiered rates would be unfair to them, while consumer
advocates said an additional $22 flat fee would be too regressive and unfair to
the poor.

There were disagreements about how dire the utility's financial situation really
was - and about how much of Austin Energy's costs are created by homes, and how
much by businesses, and whether homes really needed to shoulder most of the rate
increase for the plan to survive state scrutiny. Many of the disputes amounted
to whether the utility's assumptions could be trusted.

The debate came down to this: The city's Electric Utility Commission, a group of
volunteers who advise the council, was split, with four in favor of Austin
Energy's proposal and three against.

When the plan arrived on council members' desks in January, they were not
prepared. Complex issues that had been hashed out for months were new to them,
and under pressure from numerous constituents, they decided they needed to delve
into the issues themselves. Meanwhile the utility was urging a vote by spring to
avoid financial issues that could linger for years.

A flurry of council jockeying followed. Mayor Lee Leffingwell was the first to
call Austin Energy's proposal inadequate, then he was largely noncommittal.
Cole, Riley and Spelman were generally supportive of the utility but said its
plan needed work. Morrison, Tovo and Council Member Mike Martinez were generally
critical of the utility and its assertions.

After three months of little progress, the council finally decided to hold an
additional three months' worth of workshops to examine every facet of the
increase.

By setting up the workshops, the council also put off voting on an increase
until after the May 12 election.

Years-long wait

By waiting years to address Austin Energy's problems, the council and city
management created more.

City Manager Marc Ott had ordered his staff not to emphasize the consequences of
delaying a council vote this spring on the rate increase, to avoid the
appearance of pressuring his bosses, according to three sources familiar with
the issue.

But earlier this month, speaking at the request of the safely re-elected
Leffingwell, city financial adviser Bill Newman warned the council that Austin
Energy's credit rating is likely to be downgraded. This would add long-term
costs for an entirely avoidable reason: doubt about the utility's ability to pay
its debts.

"To go 18 years without an increase is not good," Newman said.

He added that ratings agencies prefer robust reserves and periodic, predictable
increases.

By waiting so long, city leaders also introduced a potent argument against
Austin Energy's proposal: rate shock.

The Austin Water Utility has raised its rates far more, nearly doubling them
over the past decade, with 4 or 5 percent increases planned each year for the
foreseeable future. But because the water utility increases were relatively
small, even if frequent, they partially disarmed the argument that the utility
was asking for too much, too suddenly.

Austin Energy executives did try to address rate shock. After the initial
council posturing, the utility split the increase, proposing that a large chunk
go into effect this year to balance the books and a second one be adopted in
2014 that would allow the utility to begin rebuilding its reserves. (Spelman's
plan, which the council will probably consider June 7, modifies this two-step
approach.)

But the city waited too long to spread the pain out further, according to Austin
Energy executives, who said some critics would fight a rate increase no matter
what the facts. Critics countered that Austin Energy was rushing to an increase
without proving it was needed. The more the mistrust grew, the more critics
insisted on additional scrutiny the utility said would cause harmful delays.

Bee Moorhead, the executive director of Texas Impact, a church advocacy group,
said the cycle added unnecessary pressure to a debate that is supposed to be
long and difficult.

"Setting rates for public power is an inherently messy process precisely because
it involves the whole community - and that's a good thing," Moorhead said.
"Unfortunately, we made it much harder on ourselves by waiting so long to do
this."

Contact Marty Toohey

at 445-3673 S

Expert reporting
 American-Statesman reporter Marty Toohey has been covering Austin Energy since
 early 2009 and has written more than two dozen articles about the utility's
proposed rate increase. This story is based on dozens of interviews and
reporting during the nearly two-year debate over the rate hike.



LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 825 words


Voter IDs

Re: Aug. 6 letter to the editor, "Maybe we need voter ID."

The writer asserted that the Wisconsin secretary of state reported that 117
percent of eligible voters voted in the recent Wisconsin recall election as a
way of defending requiring voter photo IDs. That was an out-and-out lie. The
truth is that 58 percent of eligible voters voted in that election. Why is it
that so-called "family values" Republicans have to habitually falsify to try and
make a case? Is it a moral failure? One who passes on lies is a liar!

Harley Spoon

harleyspoon@yahoo.com

Austin

A parallel with militarism

Re: Aug. 3 commentary, "Moral disengagement fueled monstrosities at Penn State."

It seems universally acknowledged that the traumatizing of boys at Penn State
and the moral disengagement that enabled it were bad things. Can we find a
parallel with militarism? Consider hundreds of thousands killed by U.S.
militarism and the many more times that number injured, maimed and traumatized;
the communities and cultures reduced to rubble; the epidemic of birth defects in
places like Fallujah (a consequence of the chemical pollution of "modern
munitions"); the depleted uranium powder we have left behind, which will impact
people's health for as long as those places continue to be inhabited; and the
trauma to our military personnel and their families. We should stop enabling our
government's militarism.

Worth Green

Llano

Rental vote

Shame on the Austin City Council and shame on us for not electing responsible
officials. The ability for non-occupied house owners to rent short term -
creating the equivalent of boarding houses within neighborhoods - is bad for our
community.

Steve Amos

Austin

A price on carbon

Re: Aug. 7 online article, "New study links current events to climate change"

Regarding science policy expert Roger Pielke Jr.'s claims that Hansen's policy
model will "prove ineffectual and with its most lasting consequence a further
politicization of climate science (if that is possible)," Pielke fails to
consider that a price on carbon - which is the policy favored by Hansen - is
widely believed to be the most efficacious instrument, one which is championed
by economists from the left and right, including Greg Mankiw, who is advising
Mitt Romney.

Hansen argues we should end all subsidies and correct the biggest market failure
in the history of the world by putting a true price on carbon, thus allowing the
free market to decide where energy originates.

How can that be bad policy?

Richard Bradley

Dallas

Romney's wealth

Re: Aug. 3 letter to the editor, "Rich Kennedys got a pass."

I don't usually respond to letters to the editor, but because the writer
included his email address, it appears that he is begging for reactions. Quite
simply, for the majority of people who voice their displeasure with Mitt Romney,
it is not for reason of his personal wealth. For heaven sakes, there aren't many
Americans who are anti-wealth. We are totally over Romney being rich. More power
to him for being so successful.

It's his and his fellow Republicans' ideology that we Democrats take exception
with. We're not giving him a "pass," because trickle-down economic policies have
not worked in the past. We all wonder why people think they will work now.

There is a huge difference between a Kennedy and a Romney. The Kennedys have
always displayed compassion for all citizens by virtue of their political and
personal beliefs and have backed those beliefs up with actions. On the other
hand, Romney chooses to support big business interests so that one day, I will
have the opportunity to get rich. Ha. I won't be holding my breath on that one.

Donna S. Schmidt

Lakeway

We don't lobby

Re: Aug. 2 article, "Immigrants prove big business for prison companies."

The article relied on selective information and speculation to advance a
misguided hypothesis about the impact our company, Corrections Corporation of
America, has on U.S. immigration policy. The fact is CCA does not and has not
ever lobbied for or endorsed immigration legislation under longstanding
corporate policy. In reality, we have financially supported a number of
individuals and organizations that run contrary to the examples provided in the
report. For instance, we are a member of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which
vehemently opposed Arizona's controversial immigration legislation.

CCA exists because we provide solutions to the government to help meet our
nation's detention and corrections challenges. We have been innovators in
everything from rehabilitation programming to facility design, and we do so at
independently verified cost savings of 5 percent to 15 percent.

Mike Machak

Manager, Public Affairs, CCA

Nashville

Chick-fil-A controversy

I guess the owner of the Chick-fil-A franchise's sensibilities just didn't
evolve quickly enough. Our president has been a supporter of gay marriage for
almost three months. I guess he is welcome in Chicago now.

William Tenery

atenery@austin.rr.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

POLITIFACT TEXAS

BYLINE: Compiled by the American-Statesman Politifact Texas team

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E03

LENGTH: 449 words


These items are explained at greater length, with detailed source lists, on our
website, www.politifacttexas.com.

BILL ZEDLER

Statement: "While (Barack) Obama preaches 'we are our brother's keeper,' his
brother and aunt live in real poverty in Kenya."

Mostly True

State representative from Arlington is correct that President Obama often refers
to being our brother's keepers. Obama has a half-brother who lives in a Nairobi
slum but who has told interviewers that he doesn't want or expect help from the
president. Obama also has a Kenyan aunt who sells charcoal by the road. We found
one account of the president giving her some money in 2006.

MITT ROMNEY

Statement: Says Barack Obama "robbed Medicare (of) $716 billion to pay for "
Obamacare."

Mostly False

The only element of truth here is that the health care law seeks to reduce
future Medicare spending, and the tally of those cost reductions over the next
10 years is $716 billion. Neither Obama nor his health care law literally cut a
dollar amount from the Medicare program's budget. And by no means was the money
"robbed."

BARACK OBAMA

Statement: Says "Paul Ryan supports banning all abortions, even in cases of rape
or incest."

Half True

As Obama says, the GOP vice presidential candidate has been a staunch opponent
of abortion, including in cases of rape or incest. The only exception Ryan
favors is situations where an abortion is needed to save the life of the mother.
So, the Obama statement goes too far by saying that Ryan "supports banning all
abortions."

KINKY FRIEDMAN

Statement: Says Texas is 1st in business climate, 49th in education.

Half True

The former (and perhaps future) candidate for Texas governor was on the money
when it came to perception about Texas' business climate. Several business
publications have ranked Texas as the top state for doing business. Education
rankings proved more tricky. We examined numerous statistics and found that
Texas often falls in the lower half in both education spending and achievement,
but we couldn't find evidence that Texas ranks as low as 49th.

AUSTINITES FOR GEOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATION

Statement: "Austin is the largest city in the U.S. or Texas with no geographic
representation" on its city council.

True

This group is pushing for one of two proposals on the November ballot to change
the system for electing Austin City Council members, who currently are elected
at-large with no divisions by geography. The group is correct that the 12 cities
more populous than Austin all elect their council members from geographic
districts.

Find coverage of Texas issues at politifacttexas.com.
Contact Politifact Texas at
Twitter: @politifacttexas
Facebook: Politifact Texas
Email: politifact@statesman.com



LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Tighter water rules should be norm

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 727 words


We were surprised and puzzled when the city lifted its once-a-week watering
restrictions in July. Sure, this year has been wetter than expected, with the
rainfall total at Camp Mabry since Jan. 1 currently almost 3 inches above
average . But Central Texas remains in drought.

Thus it was no surprise last week when the city was forced to reverse course and
again limit watering to once a week. As we've written before, if Central Texas
isn't in drought then it's on the edge of drought. No matter how wet a year has
been, drought looms.

The city should consider making its once-a-week watering restrictions the new
normal. And Austin's watering restrictions shouldn't be set to tighten when lake
levels drop to a certain point; instead, they should be set to loosen only when
lake levels rise to near-full or full.

As the American-Statesman's Marty Toohey reported in Saturday's editions ,
complaints from homeowners about their dying landscaping along with lake levels
that, while low, were no longer critical prompted Mayor Lee Leffingwell and City
Manager Marc Ott to lift the once-a-week restrictions July 16.

Leffingwell, defending the decision, told Toohey that the city's rules require
it to move from one watering stage to the next when lake capacity reaches
certain levels. He dismissed concerns the city's quick shift from one stage to
the next and back again would confuse residents.

"I see nothing wrong with going back and forth," Leffingwell told Toohey. "It's
how the policy is written and I think the city has handled the situation exactly
as it should have and with common sense."

Lake levels trigger Austin's watering restrictions. Stage 2, once-a-week
watering rules take effect when Lakes Buchanan and Travis drop to a combined
900,000 acre-feet. The lakes were at 983,000 acre-feet, which is only about 49
percent full, when the city relaxed its Stage 2 rules in July.

Buchanan and Travis currently hold 882,531 acre-feet, according to the Lower
Colorado River Authority. An acre-foot of water is about 326,000 gallons, about
the amount three typical Central Texas households use in a year.

When the city returned to twice-a-week watering in July it did so with new
limits on the hours watering was allowed. Those changes, an improvement on the
old limits, have been tweaked slightly since but still hold.

Homeowners have invested time and money in their landscaping, but in many cases
that landscaping is ill fit for Central Texas' climate. St. Augustine is a
popular grass, to name the most visible example, but it's a coastal grass; those
thick, lush lawns come at a watering price.

Concerns that the Stage 2 watering restrictions were jeopardizing the city's
trees earn greater sympathy. Twelve hundred trees on city land died last year
because of drought conditions, according to city estimates.

Stage 2 restrictions allowed for hand watering at any time. Recent changes to
the policy also allow exemptions for drip irrigation to water trees and gardens.
Drip irrigation is more efficient than sprinklers and loses less water to
evaporation and runoff.

Some homeowners began drilling private water wells and tapping into the Edwards
Aquifer to water their lawns and circumvent the city's watering restrictions.
The increase in the number of private water wells over the past two years
prompted the Austin City Council to pass a resolution last month ordering Ott to
develop a registry of wells drilled on properties served by the Austin Water
Utility, a move we supported. No permit is currently required to drill a well
inside the city; that needs to change.

Nothing about the region's water situation justified July's watering decision.
The city's quick return to once-a-week watering after only seven weeks
underscores how quickly the benefits of good rains can vanish in Central Texas.
That is the drought's enduring lesson.

AUSTIN'S CURRENT WATERING SCHEDULE
 * Homes that use automatic sprinkler systems can water once a week, from
midnight to 5 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to midnight. Homes with odd-numbered
addresses can water on Wednesdays, those with even numbers on Thursdays.
 * Homes with hose-end sprinklers can water once a week, from midnight to 10
a.m., and from 7 p.m. to midnight. Odd-numbered addresses can water on
Saturdays, even-numbered addresses on Sundays.
 * Residents can use a hand-held hose or drip irrigation system at any time.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 14, 2012 Monday
                                 Final Edition

COMMUNITY BRIEFING

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1419 words


AUSTIN

Comment on funding for transportation projects

The Texas Department of Transportation recently announced the availability of
additional funding for transportation improvements from a variety of sources,
including cost under-runs on other projects, additional anticipated federal
revenue and extra borrowing.

The Capital Area Metropolitan Planning Organization is seeking public comment at
these meetings:

* Today : A public hearing will be held at 6 p.m. in the Joe C. Thompson Center,
No. 3.102, 2405 East Campus Drive.

* Wednesday : A community meeting will be run from 5:30 to 7 p.m. in the O.
Henry Middle School Cafeteria, 2610 W. 10th St.

The Transportation Policy Board is expected to make a decision at its June 11
meeting.

... American-Statesman staff

NORTH AUSTIN

Free orientations set for foster, adoptive parents

The Settlement Home for Children is looking for foster and adoptive parents for
children, teens and sibling groups. The home offers free, no-obligation
informational orientations each month for potential parents. Those interested
will meet staff and get answers to questions on foster and adoption.

The next orientations are Tuesday and May 22, from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Home's
Williamson Family Campus at 1607 Colony Creek Drive.

Reserve a spot by calling 832-1252 or visit www.settlementhome.org .

... American-Statesman staff

AUSTIN

ACC honored with sustainability award

The Austin Community College District is one of 10 higher education institutions
in the country to receive the 2012 Climate Leadership Award from Second Nature
and the American College & University Presidents' Climate Commitment. ACC is one
of only two community colleges to receive the honor.

The award recognizes colleges that demonstrate innovation and leadership in
transitioning society to a clean and sustainable future.

ACC initiated its collegewide commitment to environmental stewardship in 2009 .
For more information on ACC's sustainability efforts, visit
austincc.edu/sustainability.

... American-Statesman staff

LAKEWAY

Group donates money

to psychiatric hospital

The Lakeway Associates of Seton, headed by President Kim Nearburg, presented
more than $35,000 to Seton Shoal Creek Hospital at the group's year-end luncheon
May 2 at the Hills Country Club. The check was a record net amount raised from
the group's annual gala, held March 26 and attended by about 200 people.

"Combined with the amount from the gala, Lakeway Associates raised more than
$51,000 this past year for the psychiatric hospital, including about $6,000 from
the Seton High Tea on Jan. 28," Nearburg said.

Seton Shoal Creek Hospital is the only acute-care psychiatric hospital in
Central Texas that treats children, teens and adults. The hospital offers
inpatient and outpatient programs for people struggling with mental disorders,
chemical dependency, detoxification or emotional and behavioral problems.

... American-Statesman staff

PFLUGERVILLE

Deadline near for equity, social justice conference

Tuesday is the deadline to register for the Pflugerville school district's
Conference for Equity and Social Justice in Education.

The district will partner with the University of Texas to put on the free
conference from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Aug. 10 at Hendrickson High School. Members
of the public and education professionals can take advantage of development
opportunities geared toward creating inclusive school environments.

For more information, email rachelle.warren@pflugervilleisd.net or
sara.lucas@pflugervilleisd.net

To register, go to www.pfluger

villeisd.net and click the conference's banner on the right.

... James Rincon, American-Statesman staff

WILLIAMSON

Round Rock

After-hours networking event with chamber

The Round Rock Chamber of Commerce will host its Business After Hours networking
event at 5 p.m. Tuesday at Bella Notte on Main, 201 E. Main St. The event is
free to all chamber investors.

Contact Michele West at 255-5805 or at mwest@roundrock

chamber.org for more information.

... Round Rock Leader

Round Rock

Students show off robots at school event

The Round Rock school district will host the third annual Robotics Showcase from
5 to 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at the McNeil High School cafeteria, 5720 McNeil Drive.

It will be the first time for a sumo robot challenge. In a sumo match, two
robots start inside a ring marked with a border of a contrasting color and try
to push the other robot outside the ring without accidentally driving outside
the ring themselves.

Students also will present robots created throughout the school year at the
elementary, middle and high school levels, both in the classroom and in
competition.

... American-Statesman staff

Taylor

Chlorine treatment planned for city water

Beginning Tuesday , the Brazos River Authority will be conducting a 30-day
chlorine "burnout" of the water distribution systems of the City of Taylor and
Jonah Water Special Utility District. The activity also will affect Thrall,
Hutto and any other entities that purchase potable water from Taylor or Jonah.

Over time, organic material accumulates in the water distribution systems, and
it is disinfected by occasionally using "free chlorine" as an alternative
disinfecting chemical for 30 days in what is known as a burnout.

Customers who have fish or use water for medical purposes will need to make
changes in their procedures. They should be sure to consult a pet store or
physician.

During this process, the public water supply may develop a slight odor or
discoloration. The safety of the water will not be affected.

For additional information contact the Brazos River Authority at 1-888-922-6272
or email

information@brazos.org

... American-Statesman staff

Georgetown

Parent seminar teaches behavior reward system

The next session of the Georgetown school district's parent training sessions,
titled "Positive Behavioral Interventions," will be at the Williams Annex, 1011
Ash St. The sessions are designed to provide caregivers with additional
strategies to work with children.

The seminar, led by Pat Alvarez, will run from 6:45 to 8 p.m. Tuesday . All
sessions require an RSVP at least one day in advance.

For more information or to RSVP, contact Dawn Jennings at 943-5000, ext. 6884.

... American-Statesman staff

CEDAR PARK

Library to be closed for half-day Wednesday

The Cedar Park Library will close from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Wednesday for staff
development.

... American-Statesman staff

HAYS COUNTY

County to host meeting on road improvements

Hays County is hosting a public meeting Thursday to discuss upcoming
improvements to the intersection of RM 1826 and Darden Hill Road. Construction
is expected to start next spring and be completed by the fall.

The meeting starts at 6 p.m. at the Driftwood Volunteer Fire Department, 15850
RM 1826.

... Ciara O'Rourke, American-Statesman staff

HAYS COUNTY

Job fair set for Thursday

for 17- to 21-year-olds

Workforce Solutions of Rural Capital Area is hosting a job fair Thursday to help
17- to 21-year-olds find summer and long-term work in Hays County.

The fair will be from 2 to 7 p.m. and will meet at the San Marcos City Park
Recreation Hall in City Hall at 170 Charles Austin Drive.

... Ciara O'Rourke, American-Statesman staff

HAYS COUNTY

Early voting starts today for primary elections

Through May 25, voters can cast a ballot at any early voting location in the
county, including at the new Hays County Government Center at 712 South
Stagecoach Trail in San Marcos.

Early voting locations and times for the Republican and Democratic parties are
online at www.co.hays.tx.us/elections .

... Ciara O'Rourke, American-Statesman staff

BASTROP COUNTY

BASTROP COUNTY

Chambers schedule countywide mixer

The chambers of commerce for Bastrop, Elgin and Smithville will host their third
annual countywide chamber mixer from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. The event will
be held at the Hyatt Regency Lost Pines Resort, 575 Lost Pines Road, in Bastrop.
There will be networking and food to accompany a cash bar.

For more information, contact the Bastrop Chamber of Commerce at 512-303-0558.

... American-Statesman staff

BASTROP

School board to discuss two principal positions

In advance of its regular meeting Tuesday , the Bastrop school board will go
into executive session to discuss the principal positions of both Cedar Creek
High and Emile Elementary schools. Afterward the board will swear in the new
board members and then elect officers. The board will also consider approval of
the 2012-13 budget and the pay scale for teachers.

The board meets at 5:30 p.m. at Mina Elementary School, 1203 Hill St.

... American-Statesman staff

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 904 words


Youth lockup issues

Re: June 2 article, "Agency plans to reopen lockup."

The governor's "Happy Warrior," appointed interim leader of the Texas Juvenile
Justice Department, promises a grand display of "toughness on violent youth."
Rehabilitation will be a lost concept.

In 2007 Sen. John Whitmire, D-Houston, promised to downsize the Texas Youth
Commission and cited a "sex scandal" and nonexistent "cover-up" of two properly
conducted investigations from two years earlier. The media frenzy resulted in
dismantling of a nationally recognized rehabilitation program.

Much later, one TYC staff member was found guilty of improper sexual relations;
the other was found innocent, while dozens of dedicated, honest, caring and
capable TYC administrators were fired under publicly humiliating false blame and
shame.

The general public received a n inaccurate account of events at TYC, yet
legislative leaders blame the very people they appoint, providing inadequate
resources and undermining them with public castigations.

My prayers continue for many noble, unsung staff members who try to maintain
safety, security and rehabilitation for incarcerated youth despite rampant blame
by state officials.

Deborah D. Nance

Burnet

Work on rates

Many of us have participated in more than a year of public input and months of
council work sessions, thoroughly reviewing the $126 million rate increase
request. In May, the Austin City Council directed Austin Energy to lower the
requested increase to $71 million.

The rate increase, which directly affects all ratepayers, can be further reduced
by $9.8 million: $5.8 million can be saved by rejecting Austin Energy's proposal
to shift street-lighting costs from municipal governments to all ratepayers;
recognizing the reduction in 2011 operations costs saves another $4 million.

It is troubling that this rate filing is so overdue and its details made so
opaque by utility. The council's actions reducing Austin Energy's revenue
request and the new governance structure it will be considering should provide a
sound basis for going forward in the competitive market, but there is much to be
done before that is a reality.

Shane Menking,

President and CFO, ­Data Foundry

Austin

Coal's extra costs

Articles routinely neglect to address the many extra energy costs associated
with our Fayette County coal-fired power plant, such as health services,
scrubbing sulfur and mercury, the almost 6 billion gallons of precious water
used for cooling, and continuing climate impacts.

I was fortunate to meet in Fayette County with pecan farmers out of business
because of pecans' susceptibility to sulfur emissions.

Just hearing about human health effects from our plant's emissions - an
estimated 37 people killed per year, nine heart attacks every two months, two
asthma attacks every day - I became uncomfortable breathing that same air.

Let's replace our 600 annual coal megawatts as quickly as we can. Better
construction results in greater reduction of demand; that good Texas coastal
wind blows and creates energy all night long, and many of us are clambering to
contract for local solar installation. And new construction can easily install
geothermal heating and cooling.

Kunda Wicce

Austin

Psychiatric inmate care

Re: May 27 article, "Many defendants linger in psychiatric hospitals."

The article outlines clearly the dilemmas that Texas faces as mentally ill
prisoners waiting for beds accumulate in our county jails. Reallocating beds
from civil to forensic commitments does not add to total capacity and denies
needed hospital care for adults who have not been charged with a crime.

Texas is in a race to the bottom, and only the Legislature can address this
issue.

Will the American-Statesman be as interested next winter when the Legislature is
designing the next biennium budget? ( I was superintendent of Kerrville State
Hospital from 1993 to 2006.)

Gloria Olsen

Kerrville

Reminder of suffering

We've heard a lot about the situation at the Wood Ridge Apartments. So far, this
is just a news story to us, but real people have been thrown out in the streets.

Even more tragically, the victims of this preventable occurrence are homeless,
while the perpetrators of this situation rest comfortably in their homes.

It's a blight on our city for this to happen, and I love this city. I was born
and raised in this city and will probably die in this city. So in the interest
and welfare of our citizens, I'm asking for your help in restoring the dignity
and humanity of our community.

Please contact the Austin City Council and let them know that we are not going
to let this happen to ourselves or anyone else, and remind them that while
hotels and high rises are being built, people are suffering in their shadows.
Thank you.

Ray Quinonez

raygourmet@hotmail.com

Austin

Only a repeat

According to all the polls I read before the Texas primary election, the
American people believe that the U.S. Congress is doing a terrible job.
Logically, one would think that if Americans really believe that fact, the
incumbents, or career politicians, would be voted out of office. Then I read the
newspaper the day after and find out that Reps. Lloyd Doggett and Lamar Smith,
both career politicians, were sent to the general election in November with
overwhelming margins of victory over their primary opponents.

This is just another example of someone doing the same thing over and over and
still expecting different results.

Robert Ward

Austin

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Wet lab space scarce for Austin tech sector

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin lcopelin@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 1414 words


Austin, conventional wisdom goes, has all the ingredients for economic success:
an entrepreneurial ecosystem at the doorstep of a top tier research university
in a state perennially praised for its business climate.

Yet its biotechnology sector suffers from a missing link: Wet lab space for
early startup companies is in such short supply that intellectual property
discovered at the University of Texas is being commercialized at labs in
Georgetown, Abilene, Dallas and points beyond.

Wet labs have the appropriate plumbing, ventilation and equipment to allow
hands-on research and experimentation with chemicals, drugs or biological
materials.

Without enough of them, Austin risks losing startup companies and the
good-paying jobs they can produce, industry officials said. And research labs
are an element in Austin's quest to expand its economy with a medical school and
teaching hospital over the next several years.

"There is a deficit of wet lab space that is going to retard biotechnology in
Austin," said Isaac Barchas, director of UT's Austin Technology Incubator, or
ATI.

Janet Walkow said that when she took over as director of UT's Drug Dynamics
Institute four years ago, she was swamped with phone calls from biotech startups
looking for lab space.

Why the shortage?

"I ask that question every day," Walkow said. "I'm just befuddled."

Cindy WalkerPeach , who leads ATI's biotech division, has studied the issue with
the help of a federal grant.

"It will require 60,000 square feet of wet laboratory space just to meet the
demand of current companies," WalkerPeach said.

To address that, WalkerPeach's feasibility study envisions a 150,000-square-foot
wet lab facility at the Mueller development - a facility that would come with a
price tag of $80 million.

"That's a lot of money," Barchas acknowledged.

But WalkerPeach's study says the facility could generate 275 to 740 jobs - not
counting indirect jobs created by the investment - and have an economic impact
of $40 million to $110 million over five years.

The Mueller site is preferred because of its proximity to the University of
Texas, local hospitals and a possible future medical school. WalkerPeach
estimated it could take 58 months to complete the plan, including a year to
obtain financing.

ATI has applied for a $255,215 grant from the U.S. Commerce Department's
Economic Development Administration as the next step.

Barchas said the grant, if awarded, will be used to investigate how to finance
the facility, including a possible public-private partnership with an anchor
tenant from the private sector.

"If the grant is awarded, we will buy expertise to teach us how to raise the
money," Barchas said.

In the meantime, Austin's biotech startups are making do.

WalkerPeach said ATI recently lost a company to Dallas because it lacked
adequate wet lab space.

And Barchas said several of the incubator's companies have contracted research
with organizations in other states and countries.

"Frankly, a number of our companies are operating in virtual labs," he said.

That is not necessarily unusual.

The life cycles of many biotech startups include outsourcing research because
the companies cannot yet afford staff and equipment. A lot of that work goes out
of state now. Eventually, though, many startups need their own small labs to
prove their concepts before they can attract investors and grow.

Working with ATI, Walkow last year persuaded UT officials to convert space at
the university into the UTech Dorm Room, about 1,000 square feet of labs. The
City of Austin contributed $35,000 for equipment.

"Once we opened our doors, people were just lined up," she said.

Three companies quickly leased the space.

An additional 5,500 square feet of old lab space in the North Pharmacy School
building that has been set aside, pending a grant application for a cancer
project, could be converted to wet lab space.

While UT awaits word on the state grant, Walkow said, the space can be used by
startups for a few months.

Others are conducting lab work in Georgetown at the Texas Life-Sciences
Collaboration Center , 15,000 square feet of labs that opened in 2007.

A collaboration by Georgetown, the Georgetown Chamber of Commerce and
Southwestern University created the center, which is overflowing with eight
tenants.

Ground is scheduled to be broken on a second building this fall, and the center
just signed an agreement to help commercialize technology expected to come out
of the Texas A&M University System's proposed medical school in Williamson
County.

The center has also attracted out-of-state biotech startups.

"We're getting clients from the East Coast and West Coast," said Russ Peterman,
the center's director.

Xeris Pharmaceuticals Inc. moved from California to the Austin Technology
Incubator in 2010.

Saretta Ramdial, a company spokeswoman, said Austin has the right combination of
talent, a startup environment, cheaper overhead and a central location that "
can bring people here from both coasts."

Xeris outsourced its early research, but when it came time to create its own
lab, there weren't many options in Austin.

"The limited spaces available to us were too large and too expensive," said
Nancy Scott, the company's director of product development. "They would have
posed too much risk to our company at an early stage."

Georgetown provided the answer, though company officials said splitting
operations between two cities is not ideal.

"Eventually, we'd like to have all our office and lab space under the same
roof," Scott said.

Peterman, who is accepting a new job as chairman of the Texas Bio Corridor
Alliance, plans to urge the creation of more lab space.

"If we are going to have this industry grow, it is absolutely essential to have
wet labs," Peterman said. "You won't have these companies move to Central Texas
without them."

The Georgetown lab also has helped keep some homegrown companies in Central
Texas.

DisperSol Technologies, founded in 2007, arose from research at UT's College of
Pharmacy.

Dave Miller, the company's vice president of research and development, said he
started as a UT graduate student working on a novel technology that makes new
drugs more soluble.

Today the company is making a drug product at its Georgetown lab for clinical
trials. Miller said the company came to Georgetown because Austin didn't have a
small facility that met the federal standards for manufacturing drugs.

Over the next several years, Miller said, the company hopes to triple its need
for manufacturing space and stay in the Austin area.

He said company officials have deep roots in Texas.

"We have our own personal reasons for staying here," Miller said.

After a startup leaves Austin for lab space, it won't necessarily return to the
capital city.

Bill Williams is a UT pharmacy professor and a co-founder of PharmaForm, a
successful company that he and his partner sold in 2007.

A second company, Enavail LLC, is developing drug products based on Williams'
research.

Williams, who serves as an adviser at Enavail, said the Austin-based company
located its lab in Abilene, a city of almost 120,000 people, about 220 miles
northwest of Austin.

That West Texas city has built a $10.5 million publicly funded facility to
attract biotech firms.

"It filled a void," Williams said.

Despite its Austin roots, Enavail won't necessarily return after it develops its
line of cancer therapeutics.

"We've brought people there and hired locals," Williams said. "We're not going
to ask them to move."

Once biotech startups make it - and only about 1 in 4 does - they typically look
for larger labs.

The private sector fills that need.

A San Francisco firm, Drawbridge Realty Trust, recently purchased two buildings
in Austin that will provide a combined 30,000 square feet of office and wet lab
space.

Mark Pearson, a managing partner, said the firm is looking for startup companies
that need 6,000 square feet of space or more. He said the typical prospective
company already has received venture funding and is growing. He said Drawbridge
is negotiating with several tenants.

"We like the Austin market," Pearson said. "It fits with what we do in Silicon
Valley."

But he questions whether Austin needs 60,000 square feet of wet lab space for
early startups.

"We don't think it's as big a need as others have thought," Pearson said.

He said that will change if the medical school is built.

"That will drive the innovation and need for more biotech space in Austin,"
Pearson said. "That's what's driven it everywhere."

Contact Laylan Copelin

at 445-3617

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 12, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 302 words


'My legs just felt like they were bricks, but something inside me said keep
going, keep going, keep pushing, keep pushing.'

Leo Manzano, former runner at Marble Falls High School and the University of
Texas, who jetted from the back of the pack in the final stretch to win Olympic
silver in the 1,500 meters

'I'm not sure if he's ready for 20-hour days and sleeping on an air mattress in
the edit room.'

Rowdy Gaines, NBC analyst, opining that superstar swimmer Michael Phelps would
make a good TV sports commentator yet might pass up an Olympics broadcast
assignment

'I'm not going to get greedy. '

Vincent Hancock, 23-year-old Army captain who earned a gold medal in skeet
shooting, acknowledging in The New York Times that he's among the vast majority
of Olympic winners who

won't get rich on their success

'If somebody was trying to move your house to a different location while you're
in it, you would probably be mad, too.'

Wizzie Brown, entomologist with the Texas AgriLife Extension Service, explaining
bee behavior after a warehouse worker in Pflugerville moved a cabinet containing
a swarm of perhaps 125,000 and ended up hospitalized with hundreds of stings

'Global warming from human activities has reared its head.'

Kevin Trenberth, climate analysis chief of the National Center for Atmospheric
Research, on what it means that the first seven months of the year were the
hottest such period in U.S. records

The top five
 Most popular news stories on statesman.com (Sunday through Thursday)
 1. Man sent to hospital after swarm of bees attacks (and related headlines)
 2. Ad about woman's death causes campaign furor
 3. Austin couple's accidental proposal photo goes viral
 4. Leander police charge man who kept $2,000 found in wallet with theft
 5. Man attacked by bees crashed car en route to hospital, officials say



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

TOP LOCAL STORIES OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 736 words


SUNDAY

First murder of the year: Police continue to look for clues as they investigate
the death of 29-year-old Esme Barrera, who was killed in her home about 3 a.m.
on New Year's Day. Two other women were attacked nearby that night.

Hot, hot, hot: Setting another climate record in a year that has toppled many
Austin and state records, 2011 was the city's hottest year on record, with an
average temperature of 72.6 degrees - beating 2006's record of 71.7 degrees.
Austin also shattered the 86-year-old record of 69 100-degree days, ending the
year with 90.

Fires burn budgets: Bastrop County taxing entities will feel the pain of the
fall wildfire. The current estimate is that $155 million worth of homes and
other structures were destroyed, out of nearly $4.4 billion in taxable property.
County Auditor Lisa Smith said the county has determined that its $30 million
budget would shrink by roughly $1.3 million based on the latest estimates it
received from the appraisal district.

MONDAY

Kicking coal: The Sierra Club's Texas Chapter trumpeted in an email "that every
Austin City Council member has pledged to move Austin beyond coal and phase out
of the Fayette coal plant." What's missing is a timetable and a cost to
customers. It's unlikely either will be known until a study by Austin Energy is
completed in the fall.

TUESDAY

Fifth place but not finished: After a fifth-place finish in the Iowa caucuses,
Gov. Rick Perry briefly reassessed his campaign before affirming that he will
continue his presidential bid.

Charter sought Austin: According to emails obtained by the American-Statesman,
IDEA charter school staff members approached the Austin school district about
the charter school coming to Austin. In December over the objection of some
community members, the district's board approved a contract that calls for IDEA
to run a kindergarten to 12th-grade program at two East Austin campuses.

More than just elections: The Charter Revision Committee is not only looking at
how City Council members are elected, but also pushing for changes to the city's
campaign finance rules to improve transparency and voter confidence in city
elections and to create a more level playing field for all candidates.

WEDNESDAY

Pay for officers scrutinized: Federal and local authorities are looking into the
off-duty employment of several Austin police officers who were paid cash by a
wealthy Mexican man to watch over his daughter while she attends college, the
American-Statesman learned. Two officers have left the department in the past
month since the inquiry started, and others who may have also worked on the
private security assignment have been questioned.

Big plans for Colony Park: With a $3 million grant to create a master plan for
208 acres of rolling, city-owned land, Austin officials announced that the city
would be creating a mixed-income, mixed-use, environmentally friendly
development in far East Austin.

THURSDAY

Delays extend to voter cards: Like every other segment of the election timetable
this year, the court fight over redistricting has now affected the mailing of
new voter registration certificates. Because voting precincts and voting
locations are still undetermined, officials in Travis, Williamson, Hays and
Burnet counties all said they are waiting for some resolution before mailing out
new cards to replace the expired ones.

UT official resigns: Richard Miller, the University of Texas' first chief
commercialization officer, resigned his position last week after being told he
must no longer have a financial interest in startup companies that might want to
license technology from the school. The veteran biotechnology researcher and
entrepreneur began working at UT in September 2010.

FRIDAY

Custodian fired after report of gunman: Lake Travis school district officials on
Friday fired a custodian who they said prompted lockdowns at two schools last
month by falsely reporting that she saw a man with a gun inside Lake Travis
Middle School. A spokesman for the sheriff's office said Friday that its
investigation into the case was not complete and that no charges had been filed.

Guilty plea in fraud: Lakeway resident Frederic Gladle, 53, pleaded guilty to
charges of bankruptcy fraud and aggravated identity theft. From 2007 until his
arrest in October, Gladle operated a business that helped distressed property
owners delay foreclosure by paying a monthly fee, according to prosecutors.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A look back at some Perry-related claims during his campaign

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby and Meghan Ashford-Grooms AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 821 words


Whether talking up his record or pounding issues, Gov. Rick Perry frequently
moved the needle on the PolitiFact Texas Truth-O-Meter as he stumped for
president.

All told, we checked about 50 statements made by or about Perry in connection
with his now-suspended bid.

For starters, our Perry-O-Meter promise checker marked as Broken his 2010 vow
not to run for president.

Some highlights:

* Perry hewed to a claim in his 2010 book, "Fed Up!" that Social Security is a
Ponzi scheme. We rate that False; the government program, overseen by Congress,
is not a criminal enterprise.

* Perry told a youngster that in Texas, "we teach both creationism and
evolution" in public schools. False. Some teachers surely address creationism,
but it's not state law or policy to intermix instruction on creationism and
evolution.

* Perry said scientists are "questioning the original idea that man-made global
warming is what is causing the climate to change. " (It is) more and more being
put into question." False. There is consensus among the nation's major
scientific organizations in support of human-caused warming. Skeptics seem to
make up a small minority.

* Regarding his gubernatorial record , Perry repeatedly stressed Texas job gains
compared to job losses elsewhere. His figures had a basis, but such claims shook
out as Half True. No governor merits sole credit, or blame, for a state's
economy.

* Defending a 2001 measure enabling some Texas undocumented immigrants to pay
in-state tuition at colleges and universities, Perry said only four of the
state's 181 legislators voted against the move. We identified five legislators
who voted "no." Perry's larger point held. We rated this claim True.

* Assailing Mitt Romney, Perry said the health insurance overhaul that Romney
signed into law as governor of Massachusetts was a model for the federal
approach ushered into place by President Barack Obama. That's True.

* Perry called Obama a socialist. There's no evidence for this hyperbolic claim,
which we rated Pants on Fire. Perry separately charged Obama with calling
Americans "soft," which rates Half True: Obama said the country had gotten soft
before he was president. Perry also said Obama thinks Americans are lazy. That's
Mostly False; Obama suggested laziness in soliciting foreign investment in the
United States.

* Perry said in a TV ad that "kids can't openly celebrate Christmas or pray in
school." False, though public school officials are barred from advancing a
religion, or making children pray or celebrate solely the Christian aspects of
Christmas. The Supreme Court has not said students can't pray. Texas even has
laws protecting that right.

As Perry stumped, we confirmed a notable Perry shift and made one of our own.

In late December, Perry said his position on abortion had been transformed. On
the Flip-O-Meter, we concluded that, because Perry no longer believed in
permitting abortions in cases of rape and incest but still supported allowing
them when a woman's life is in danger, he'd made a Half Flip.

Our swerve occurred after we looked into a long-repeated claim that as a
Democratic legislator, Perry was the Texas co-chair of Democrat Al Gore's 1988
presidential campaign. No such evidence, we concluded. Perry endorsed Gore then.
The co-chair label was affixed a decade later by a Democratic opponent, John
Sharp, who told us he never could prove it.

Claims about Perry and Texas by other candidates or pundits also drew our
attention.

Highlights:

* White House spokesman Jay Carney said Perry had "wanted to secede from the
union." False. Perry said in 2009 that he believed Texas could leave the U.S.,
not quite that it should happen.

* MSNBC commentator Rachel Maddow said Perry's proposed federal flat-tax plan
promised the rich huge tax cuts while everyone else would get big tax hikes.
Mostly False. Wealthy Americans might enjoy sizable cuts, but no one would be
forced to pay more. Taxpayers could choose to continue under the existing income
tax system.

* U.S. Rep. Ron Paul of Lake Jackson said Perry once wrote a letter supporting
"Hillarycare," the health care plan drafted when Bill Clinton was president.
Mostly False. Perry's letter mainly asked the first lady to consider the needs
of rural Americans.

* Romney said Perry once wrote an opinion column saying he was open to amnesty
for immigrants illegally here. Half True. In 2001, Perry wrote to The Dallas
Morning News saying he was open to a particular amnesty proposal, but he's aired
no similar view since .

* Paul said "our taxes" had doubled in Texas on Perry's watch. We did not find
any indication this happened. The most that Texas taxes might have increased
while Perry was governor is 44 percent, or 17 percent when inflation is weighed.
Paul did not provide backup information showing his personal taxes doubled.
Pants on Fire.

Find details on these ratings, including backup documents at
politifacttexas.com.

politifact@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Rethinking how we get, use water

BYLINE: Farzad Mashhood AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2419 words


Is water too cheap?

Perhaps the most obvious indication that it is, said Michael Webber, a
University of Texas professor who heads a research group focused on water and
energy, is how freely we use it.

"A hundred years from now, your grandkids would ask you, 'You sprayed what on
your lawn? That's crazy,'" Webber said.

Watering lawns will seem as crazy as throwing diamonds on our lawns; we're
throwing the world's most important resource - clean drinking water - on the
ground, Webber said.

The idea that water is too cheap is endorsed by several water planners and
policymakers.

"Water right now is underpriced," said Becky Motal, general manager of the Lower
Colorado River Authority.

A growing population requires more water, which the state says can't come from
one source. Addressing the state's water needs requires a range of solutions,
most of which are expensive.

"For most of our recent history, we just treated (water) as if we had an
unlimited supply of it. We're finding to our dismay that that's not true," said
Andrew Sansom, executive director of the River Systems Institute at Texas State
University.

One clear indication that Texans need to rethink how they value water came when
the state asked for $53 billion in improvements to prepare for a record-breaking
drought in the next 50 years.

The cheapest strategy in the Texas Water Development Board's 2012 water plan is
conservation, which would account for 24 percent of the new supply by 2060; the
costliest, desalination, would account for about 3.4 percent of the new supply.

But the prospect of a crisis doesn't necessarily make consumers more willing to
open their wallets.

"It can be hard to convince ratepayers that they need to pay more money to get
that security in their supply," said Robert Mace, the board's deputy executive
administrator for water science and conversation.

It may come as little surprise, then, that lawmakers have failed to ensure
sustainable funding for the water plan.

"I don't think there's been a greater dereliction of duty" than failing to fund
Texas water needs, state Sen. John Carona, R-Dallas , said Jan. 10 in a Business
and Commerce Committee hearing, where lawmakers were told that a dwindling water
supply can also affect the state power grid, as most energy production relies
heavily on water to cool power plants.

Recent research - as well as an overall drying and warming of the Texas climate
- has led researchers and water planners to wonder when that next big drought
will happen.

State climatologist John Neilsen-Gammon said that La Niña conditions, which
bring hot, dry springs and summers to Texas - and which have been behind the
current drought - will continue for a second year through 2012 and that half of
two-year La Niñas have been followed by a third year . However, Texas has not
been in a drought of three years or longer since the 1960s.

"Because we have not been through a multiyear drought in a long time, people's
sense of the value of water does not reflect the scarcity of water in this
state," said Todd Votteler, an executive manager for the Guadalupe-Blanco River
Authority.

What does $53 billion buy?

The water development board says it will take $53 billion - about $2,100 per
Texan - to fund strategies such as conservation, drought management, reservoirs,
wells, water reuse and desalination plants to provide an additional 9 million
acre-feet of water per year by 2060. (An acre-foot equals about 326,000
gallons.)

With a population of 25 million and growing - the water development board
predicts there will be 46 million Texans by 2060 - Texas won't have any easier
of a time controlling nature's inconsistent water supply.

Most of the cost of the plan - $46 billion - is for municipal needs: new wells
in West Texas towns, water reuse in Austin, piping from Oklahoma to Irving, to
name a few.

As time wears on, the costs can only go up.

"Building water infrastructure under emergency situations is definitely not
cheap because things have to be expedited," Mace said.

Also, a cultural view of water as an inexhaustible resource needs to be lost,
Sansom said.

"We need to figure out a way to provide an essential amount of water to our
households at an affordable price, and right at that threshold start
accelerating" the price, he said.

No one is required to implement the water plan's strategies, however, and the
Legislature is not paying for them.

Public entities such as the LCRA can issue bonds to front the cost for projects,
but they still need a steady stream of income from the project to pay for the
bonds.

"The easy part is coming up with the projects," Motal said. "The hard part is
finding the revenue sources to pay for it."

If they build it, who will pay?

Voters are unlikely to support any kind of water projects that inevitably have
only local or regional impacts, said state Sen. Troy Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay ,
chairman of the Natural Resources Committee.

"It's just hard for somebody that lives in Brady, Texas, to pay for a water
project in Dallas," Fraser said.

Echoing Fraser's apprehensions, his House counterpart's bill to help pay for
water projects never made it to the floor for a vote.

The bill proposed by state Rep. Allan Ritter, R-Nederland, would have assessed
fees to water users to pay for big projects in the state water plan: $1 per
month for residential users, $5 per month for commercial users and $100 per
month for industrial users.

State Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, rejected the view that voters are unlikely to
support funding for water projects.

Watson said the state could raise money, for example, from taxing bottled water
or finding other revenue sources.

Damming water, one of the cheaper sources and the state's traditional way of
increasing supply, can no longer be the standard answer, Votteler said.

Water planners say there are few good sites for reservoirs left in Texas and
that the state needs a more diverse water portfolio - relying on a range of
strategies such as water reuse, storing excess water in aquifers and
desalinating seawater - outlined in the plan to hedge against the impacts of
drought.

"We could 'solve' the water problem if money were no object," said Tom Mason,
who headed the LCRA from 2007 to 2011, adding that planners need to be careful
not to price consumers out of water.

Sansom agreed that it's important not to charge too much, but only for basic
use. After a household's basic water needs are met, lavish uses - such as lawn
watering - need to hit customers' wallets, he said.

Cheap conservation to costly desalination

The cheapest form of increasing water supply is conservation, and not just
replacing St. Augustine lawns with drought-resistant plants, Mace said, but also
cities patching up leaky pipes and farmers using more efficient water
strategies.

The state plan says 24 percent of the 9 million acre-feet per year of new supply
by 2060 will come from conservation, which has minimal capital costs.

Watson said the state needs to offer incentives for water conservation, such as
paying for farmers to install more efficient irrigation technologies or to grow
drought-resistant crops and lowering water rates for customers who reduce their
use.

Jumping to build desalination plants, or other costly new supplies, is
premature, said Amy Hardberger, an Environmental Defense Fund attorney who
specializes in water issues.

She said the water plan is not relying enough on conservation measures.

"It's the equivalent of your doctor saying, 'Take a cholesterol pill' versus
'Here's a new exercise regimen,'" Hardberger said. Before finding new water
supplies, the cholesterol pill, the state needs to max out on conservation, she
said.

In citing Australia's recovery from a crippling drought for much of the 2000s,
Mace echoed the view that conservation should come first.

"What happened there is, you saw a banning of all outdoor watering," Mace said.
"Then you saw in some places requirements for some flavor of household
alternative supply," such as rainwater collection systems or gray water reuse,
he said.

When conservation measures maxed out their effectiveness, suppliers jumped to
expand their supply, in some cases building emergency seawater desalination
plants.

Those plants can cost two to three times more when built on an emergency basis,
said Ralph Eberts, executive vice president of Kansas-based Black & Veatch, a
worldwide engineering, consulting and construction company that has spent nearly
a decade helping build water infrastructure in Australia.

The Texas plan relies on desalination - both from seawater and brackish
groundwater - for 3.4 percent of the new water supply it says is needed by 2060.

Seawater plants can give a coastal city a perfectly reliable source of drinking
water, and brackish plants can give inland cities access to previously
undrinkable groundwater.

However, it's too costly to realistically be adopted across the state.

Desalinated water costs several times more than water that doesn't require the
energy-intense processing to remove high concentrations of salts.

The 310,000 acre-feet per year of new water the plan says the state will rely on
by 2060 will cost $5.6 billion upfront to implement, plus additional,
undetermined costs to operate.

In 2007, the El Paso Water Utility completed the world's largest inland
desalination plant, which processes up to 27.5 million gallons of brackish
groundwater daily from beneath the dry West Texas soil, increasing the city's
water supply by about 25 percent.

The cost: $91 million, paid for by grants, loans, bonds, a rate increase and
in-kind services from the nearby Army post, Fort Bliss.

Plans are in place for the state's first seawater desalination plant, on South
Padre Island, which will process 1 million gallons per day, enough water for
roughly 375,000 average households.

The proposed cost: $13 million, which the Laguna Madre Water District will pay
for with bonds.

The water development board started researching coastal desalination in 2002 and
has invested more than $1 million in figuring out the best cities for plants.

The Laguna Madre Water District's planned South Padre Island desalination
plant's plans are the farthest along of the coastal projects, with construction
expected to begin no later than 2014, said Jorge Arroyo, the development board's
director of

innovative water technologies.

A liquid essential for more than life

"You can go without cable TV. You can even go without air conditioning. You
can't go without water," said Mason, who is now an attorney for Austin-based
Graves Dougherty Hearon & Moody.

In December, the state's electric grid operator and the organization that
monitors U.S. power grids each released reports warning that Texas could face
power shortages as aging plants are mothballed in response to new environmental
standards.

However, as water becomes a more scarce resource, planners warn, water supply -
not regulations - can be the limiting factor.

"Water scarcity creates a risk to power plants as far as their outputs not being
high," Webber said.

Dry cooling - where coal plants use air, rather than water, as the primary
cooling agent to condense steam and reuse it in power generation - can reduce a
plant's water use to almost nothing while also improving reliability during a
drought, according to a report by Webber's research group.

"The bad news is, it costs more money upfront to build," and it produces a few
percent less energy per unit of fuel, Webber said.

The extra expense of air-cooled generating units may not look so bad as water
becomes scarcer, said Jennifer Walker, the water resources specialist for the
Lone Star Chapter of the Sierra Club.

"I think we as Texans need to ask ourselves the hard question of 'Where do we
want the water we have going? Can we afford to keep using water-intensive energy
production methods?'" Walker said.

Handling the present, looking to the future

The LCRA currently projects a drought of record by late spring if extreme
drought conditions persist.

If a drought of record is declared by the LCRA, the City of Austin - and other
municipal and industrial users - will be forced to cut water use 20 percent, and
businesses that rely on the girth of lakes Travis and Buchanan expect to see
even fewer customers.

As a buffer to future droughts, Motal said this month that she plans to expand
the LCRA's water supply by 100,000 acre-feet, enough water for roughly 300,000
households, by 2017, though she did not specify how the river authority would
fund the projects.

Watson said he plans to propose legislation in the 2013 session to pay for water
infrastructure, but it's unclear how badly the drought will have hurt Texas by
then.

The changes needed to have a sustainable water future in Texas aren't just at a
policy level, said Hardberger, the water-issues lawyer.

"I think there is an unquantifiable amount of savings if people value water and
understand its importance," Hardberger said. "It can result in large water-use
reductions."

The economic damage caused by a water shortage will also be dire, according to
the water plan. The plan estimates economic losses of $11.9 billion annually
from not meeting water supply needs if the current drought continues, "and as
much as $115.7 billion annually by 2060, with (more than) a million lost jobs."

"If you're building new strategies, then it is (most likely) going to require an
increase in rates," said Mace of the water development board. "And to increase
reliability is (most likely) going to require an increase in rates."

fmashhood@statesman.com; 445-3972

What Texas could do
 Conserving, reusing and desalinating water, building reservoirs and wells
cited as ways to add 9 million acre-feet of water annually by 2060.
Desalination
* Removing salts from seawater or brackish groundwater is one of the costliest
and smallest portions of the recommended water management strategies.
* Orlando Argumedo works at the world's largest inland plant in El Paso.
Reclaimed , gray water reuse
* Texas already allows gray water from sinks, showers, tubs and laundries for
uses like landscaping, as Sun City Texas' Pat Clendenin did in 2009.
* Reclaimed or recycled water involves putting treated household or industrial
wastewater to irrigation or cooling uses.
Conservation, rainwater harvesting
* Conservation, which in many municipal programs includes the collection and
use of rainwater, is the biggest source of future supply in the State Water
Plan.
* This system helped restore native grassland on a Hays County ranch.
(GRAPHIC BOXES:  SEE MICROFILM)
Texas water supplies and demand, 2020-2060



LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Deans of the diamond

BYLINE: Rick Cantu AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1139 words


If you're looking for clues to understanding and appreciating Bart Bratcher, you
might want to start with a glimpse into the Westwood baseball team's dugout.

"When I take my teams to Westwood, I'll tell my guys, that's Mr. Baseball,"
Bowie coach Rudy Alvarez said. "Everything is perfectly organized. They even
have the rakes lined up with little numbers on each rake. So each player knows
which what rake belongs to them when the game is over."

Both coaches laughed about Alvarez's account of the Westwood dugout, with
Bratcher calling it "slightly fabricated."

Alvarez, 64, and Bratcher, 62, have countless stories to tell about their
storied careers as high school baseball coaches. Forty years ago, Alvarez took
his first varsity position at Travis, his high school alma mater . At the same
time, Bratcher was hired to coach varsity baseball and freshman football at
Brazosport.

Alvarez stayed at Travis for 25 years and now is in his his 15th season at
Bowie. Bratcher spent four years at Brazosport, five at Irving and is beginning
his 31st season at Westwood.

The years have taken a physical toll on Bratcher, who has had a knee and hip
replaced during the past four years. "It's bone on bone now," he said.

Bratcher cannot remember his first day as a coach, but said, "I'm sure I was as
nervous as a cat in a dog pound."

One early memory he treasures came after his freshman football team in
Brazosport lost a game. A player by the name of Robert Jackson, who did not
participate in the game, was visibly shaken as the final seconds ticked off the
clock.

"I apologized to him for not getting everyone in the game," Bratcher recalled.
"He looked up and said, 'Coach, that doesn't matter. I would rather win than
play. These are my friends and I'm hurting for them.' "

Bratcher has seen gradual changes in high school baseball over the past four
decades. The quality of fields and stadiums have improved, and summer camps and
select teams help players develop more quickly.

"Old-school baseball wasn't sophisticated enough so video brought about a new
school," he said. "Better video and kinesiological principles brought in another
new school to replace the older new school. So old school is now new school and
the new school is now old school."

Perhaps no one represents old-school baseball better than Rudy Alvarez, who
claims he knows the jersey number of every starter for the New York Yanks since
the Babe Ruth era.

"You've got Clete Boyer wearing No. 6, Yogi Berra 8, Gil McDougald 12, Tony
Kubek 10, Bill Skowron 14, Joe Pepitone 25, Bill Dickey 8 ""

Alvarez has worn jersey No. 17 since the day he took over at Travis in 1973.

"Even when I was coaching at Travis, Bowie had a good baseball program," Alvarez
said. "We even played Bowie when one of my two sons played there. There are so
many memories - going to the playoffs 31 times - and being the state runner-up
in 2002."

Ironically, Bowie and Westwood both reached the Class 5A state baseball
tournament in 2002. Bowie advanced to the final, losing 11-4 to Fort Bend
Elkins.

Alvarez said that day, June 2, 2002, combined his greatest professional
achievement with unspeakable tragedy. On the morning of the game, Bowie
assistant coach Gary Fowler woke up and complained he could not feel his legs.

At first, Alvarez and assistant coach Sam Degelia thought Fowler was playing a
prank. They soon realized the severity of the moment, and Fowler was rushed to a
local hospital, where doctors diagnosed him as having a cancerous brain tumor.
He died about a year later.

Alvarez has kept Fowler's memory alive by choosing a player each year to wear
No. 8, Fowler's jersey number.

Alvarez recently had knee replacement surgery, but he said his passion for
baseball is just as strong as it was on his first day of coaching. On Wednesday,
he estimated he threw 280 pitches during batting practice and hit close to 200
fungoes to his outfielders.

"My motivation is knowing that I am helping young people make some good
decisions in their lives, to be able to put a team together each year, teach
them the game good enough so that they will have success," Alvarez said.

"Baseball has been Rudy's passion since he was 10 years old playing at old Weber
Field in south Austin," said Tommy Cox, the athletic director for the Austin
school district. "He's an excellent coach and teacher. And like all the good
ones, he's a learner."

Bowie and Westwood have met only a handful of times over the years, but both
coaches remember a particularly chilly afternoon game in 1985 in Round Rock.

"Coldest day of my life on a baseball field," Alvarez recalled.

"Yeah, Bowie had a pitcher (David Martinez) who was just throwing gas," Bratcher
said.

"It was 38 degrees but felt even colder than that," Alvarez added.

Bowie won that game 1-0, and Bratcher remembered how his players complained
about their hands stinging whenever they made contact at the plate.

After Bratcher and Alvarez arrived for a photo shoot on Wednesday, they
reminisced for more than hour about the old times . Bratcher shook his head when
he overheard Alvarez calling him "Mr. Baseball."

"I call Rudy Mr. Defense," Bratcher said. "No matter who's on Bowie's team, you
always know they're going to be defensively and fundamentally sound."

For both of their teams, it's been that way for 40 years. \u27A2 \u27A2

RUDY ALVAREZ
 Age: 64
 High school: Travis (Class of '66)
 College playing career: Blinn College, the University of Texas and St.
Edward's University
 High school coaching career: Travis, 1973-97; Bowie, 1998-present
 State tournament teams: Bowie reached the Class 5A state-title game in 2002,
losing to Fort Bend Elkins 11-4.
 Notable: While attending Travis High, Alvarez played shortstop next to second
baseman Ken Boswell, who went on to play for the Amazin' Mets team that won the
 1969 World Series. " In his 25 years at Travis, Alvarez's teams reached the
playoffs 19 times. In his 14 years at Bowie, the Bulldogs have qualified for
the postseason 12 times.
 Did you know? From 1999 to 2002, Bowie posted a 100-10 record.

 BART BRATCHER
 Age: 62
 High school: Lubbock Monterey (Class of '67)
 College playing career: Baylor, 1968-71
 High school coaching career: Brazosport, 1973-76; Irving High, 1977-81;
Westwood, 1982-present.
 State tournament teams: Westwood reached the Class 5A state tournament the
same year as Bowie (2002), falling in the semifinals.
 Notable: Bratcher was inducted into Texas High School Coaches Association's
hall of fame in 1995. " Coach Bratcher and his wife, Debra, organized
mission-oriented baseball tours to Zimbabwe  from 1997 to 2001. The tours
stopped after the  African country's political climate became unstable, but the
 trips resumed again in 2010.
 Did you know? Two of Bratcher's former players are on major-league clubs -
outfielder Brent Clevlen (Philadelphia) and second baseman Kelly Johnson
(Toronto).



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Texas wine hits its stride

BYLINE: Addie Broyles abroyles@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 591 words


Russ Kane put almost 7,000 miles on his car driving across the state while
researching his new book, "The Wineslinger Chronicles: Texas on the Vine" (Texas
Tech University Press, $29.95). He's back on the road this month, but for a
different reason.

Kane, a Houston resident who blogs about wine at VintageTexas.com, is a featured
speaker at wine festival after wine festival, including three just this week, to
talk about the industry he has spent almost 15 years covering.

On Friday, he and fellow author Terry Thompson-Anderson are the featured guests
at a "locavore, locapour" event at the National Museum of the Pacific War's Ruff
Haus in Fredericksburg that is part of the three-day Hill Country Wine and Music
Festival (hillcountrywineand music.com). He'll travel to Bryan on Saturday for
Messina Hof's Wine and Roses Festival (messinahof.com/wineroses), and at the
Austin Food & Wine Festival on Sunday, he'll lead a panel with sommeliers Craig
Collins, Devon Broglie and June Rodil, as well as Food & Wine editor Ray Isle,
about Texas wines.

"The wines that (the Texas wine industry) are making our name on aren't the old
standard, West-Coast formula of chardonnay, cabernet and merlot," he says.
"We're finally hitting our stride in terms of finding the grapes that we can
hang our hats on. It ain't Bordeaux, and it sure as hell ain't Burgundy."

Viognier, tempranillo and touriga nacional grapes, for example, grow well in
Texas, but they are still relatively unknown because their European counterparts
are known by their geography instead (Rioja, for example, instead of
tempranillo).

But wine lovers, especially those visiting Texas, are starting to figure it out.
More than 1 million tourists visited Texas wineries in 2009, spending almost
$380 million while they were at it. Texas wines are doing better at national and
international contests, too, which is drawing publicity, sometimes in unintended
ways.

Kane cited the recent double gold that Lost Oak Winery won in San Francisco for
its viognier. Once the winery, which had been known as Lone Oak, received the
national acclaim, wine giant Kendall Jackson, which owns an estate with a
similar name, intensified its trademark battle against the
once-almost-overlooked Burleson winery. "It's the yin and yang," Kane says. "Now
that we're winning these big awards, we are fair game for just about everybody."

At the Food & Wine Festival, Kane and his panelists will focus on the six Texas
wines that won gold at the recent Dallas Morning News and TexSom Wine
Competition .

He's hoping that some of the national attention from the festival will bode well
for the Texas winemakers who sometimes get overlooked in the press because their
wines aren't readily available outside the state. Texas is the fifth-largest
wine-producing state but we're also the fourth-largest wine-consuming state,
Kane says. "It'll be a long time before we have enough grapes to ship out of the
state."

At his events this week, he'll spend a lot of time talking about what Texas
winemakers are doing right and trying to change the minds of the consumers who
still think of Texas wines in terms of their California counterparts. "The wine
styles are so different; the grapes are different," he says. Texas' geography,
soil and varied climate are more similar to Mediterranean countries like Spain
and Portugal whose wines have experienced a surge of popularity in recent years.
"It's up to us to lay the groundwork for teaching people about the Texas wine
experience."

Contact Addie Broyles

at 912-2504

Twitter: @broylesa

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 20, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

After funk, developers ready for a rebound

BYLINE: Shonda Novak American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 851 words


After several years with a virtually dry construction well, Central Texas' real
estate development pump is being primed again.

The pipeline of planned projects is replenishing, and construction cranes - the
"state bird," as developers jokingly call it - are multiplying in the region.

While the local apartment market has been sizzling for nearly two years, other
sectors are now picking up steam. Residential, office and hotel projects - and
yes, more apartments - are in the works.

Some projects that had been sidelined during the downturn now have financing and
are rushing toward the starting gate.

It's all evidence the real estate market is heating up in a city that has fared
better than most during the economic downturn.

"God willing and the creek don't rise, Austin is likely to see a wave of
development at a level it has never seen before," predicted Mike Kennedy,
president of Commercial Texas LLC, an Austin-based commercial real estate
services firm.

Local architect Brett Rhode, a principal in Rhode Partners, said the firm is
designing four large-scale apartment projects downtown ranging from eight to 24
stories. In addition, "we are leading feasibility studies for a significant
number of new projects in or near downtown - including hotel and office
projects," Rhode said.

"I see the urban (apartment) market continuing to grow through the end of the
year, and then level off," Rhode said. "I am optimistic that this current surge
of activity will be a catalyst for a more sustainable cycle including new office
and retail in downtown Austin."

Rob Golding, CEO of Live Oak Gottesman, an Austin-based firm that develops,
leases and manages office, retail and industrial properties, noted that
"activity in a general sense is really picking up pace across the spectrum." At
Bury and Partners, an engineering, land planning and landscape architecture
firm, "Definitely my phone is ringing more, and it's both clients I've had
relationships with for awhile and new clients," said Robert Pilgrim, a vice
president and director of planning.

At local business events, there's "an excitement that I haven't seen in three
years," Pilgrim said. "Everybody has smiles, and everybody's talking about being
busy."

Newly announced projects include an office tower Cousins Properties Inc. plans
at Third and Colorado streets downtown. And last month, White Lodging Corp. said
it has financing in place for Austin's biggest hotel, a 1,012-room JW Marriott
convention hotel that's set to break ground in June. In addition, Manchester
Texas Financial Group is forging ahead with a convention hotel planned for East
Cesar Chavez and Red River streets.

Talk to local developers, and they'll tell you the change is palpable.

At a recent Urban Land Institute event in Austin, developers agreed the number
of deals on the drawing board is a testament to the strength of the local
market.

"A lot of development deals are happening here because the people who develop,
who finance development and who invest in development think that Austin is a
smart place to be," said Kent Collins, a principal at Centro Development, an
Austin-based apartment developer. Collins said that's in part because more
people are choosing to live and work in Austin.

In fact, development activity is picking up so much that the city can't keep up
with the permitting workload, said Richard Suttle Jr., an attorney for
developers. Last month, city staffers acknowledged a backlog, saying the delays
are due in part to a flood of applications for new commercial and apartment
buildings.

Following the apartment sector's lead, office rents are beginning to rise,
concessions are drying up and new construction is being talked about as excess
inventory gets absorbed, Golding said.

"We and a number of others are all actively back in the market looking for
sites," both suburban and downtown, that would come to market in two or three
years, Golding said.

As is typical in the current lending climate, lenders and prudent developers
aren't moving forward without having tenants committed for at least half the
project, he said.

On the retail front, leasing also is picking up, with most of the activity from
fast-food franchises and other service providers, although as yet there hasn't
been a new spurt of retail development, Golding said. But as retail occupancies
climb, rents will rise, and the new development seen in the apartment market and
being contemplated in the office market will migrate to retail, Golding said.

But like any real estate veteran, Golding sounded a cautionary note. With the
economy still fragile, the debt and equity markets for real estate remain
cautious.

"Yes, the spigot is being turned back on, and people are feeling bullish on the
market," he said, "but it's got to be disciplined enthusiasm." Translation:
"That means we're not going to try to do anything foolish. There's always a
lender who will make a loan. It's up to the developer to decide when and how
much risk they're willing to take."

Shonda Novak covers real estate and development for the American-Statesman.
Contact her at 445-3856 or snovak@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 3, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A born dealer in real estate

BYLINE: Shonda Novak snovak@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1441 words


You might not know Jill Rowe, but if you shop in the Austin area, you know her
work.

Having worked for 30 years as a commercial real estate broker in Central Texas,
Rowe's influence on the region's retail landscape in particular has been
formidable. She has brokered land sales and negotiated leases that have placed
countless retailers and restaurants in their locations across the region, from
Hobby Lobby and Neiman Marcus Last Call to the popular Vespaio restaurant on
South Congress Avenue.

"Friends told me I was surely putting Vespaio in the wrong location on South
Congress, since only Guero's was successful there," said Rowe, who last year
assumed a new role as vice president of business development at Chicago Title
Austin, part of the firm's effort to reposition itself in the rapidly changing
commercial real estate market.

Rowe's real estate savvy might be in her DNA. From 1985 to 1991, while Rowe was
working at CBRE, a commercial real estate firm where she was part of the team
that started the Austin office, her mother told her she was following in her
father's footsteps.

"When I asked why she would say that since he was vice president of a life
insurance company, she said, 'Vice president in charge of commercial real
estate.' As he died when I was 6, I never knew this. Then she went on to say he
had the same gift in the business that I did."

Rowe seems to have inherited her father's knack for spotting a well-located
site. Her father, Jack Harris, was drawn to the land where the high-profile
Galleria shopping district now sits in Houston. He wanted to buy some of the
original land but, when searching for the funds, was turned down time and again.

"He was told by most that the town will never grow that far," Rowe said. "He
then approached his friend, Gerald Hines, who was an up-and-coming real estate
developer, who saw the vision and built the Galleria."

Rowe, a native of Houston, recently talked with the American-Statesman about the
state of the Austin real estate market and offered advice for those aspiring to
a career in real estate and other topics.

How would you sum up the state of the local real estate market, and what do you
see ahead in the next year or two for some of the various sectors?

Overall, we've turned the corner, but it's a more gradual trend than the ride
down. The exception is multifamily and some areas of residential, which are on a
tear, along with finished lot prices. Retail as always is very site-specific,
and there is little vacancy in the stronger areas of the market, especially for
large boxes, drive-through and freestanding buildings. Office has few large
blocks of space over 50,000 square feet, especially southwest and downtown.
Industrial continues to increase occupancy. Hotel stats show us to be one of the
best places on the country. The softest part of the market is speculative land,
as it has few buyers and even less lenders.

What are the most pressing challenges facing the Austin/Central Texas economy?
Are there any consistent refrains you hear from Chicago Title clients about what
the city or state could do to improve its business climate?

The permitting time, expense and hurdles at the city are a frequent theme of
clients. Anything that would streamline, accelerate or create predictability in
the system would be well-

received.

On the state level, some would like to see more consistent regulations required
of municipalities. Locally, a true coming-together of the business and
environmental communities would have a huge impact on our ability to move
forward and accomplish the goals of both groups.

These groups need each other, and both will be more powerful and effective
together.

The pipeline seems to be filling again with residential and commercial projects.
What financing challenges remain?

The equity for the construction and the requirements of the lender will be a
challenge that will dampen new starts. Office and retail projects will require
significant preleasing. Then again, building for specific demand isn't
necessarily a bad thing.

How did you get into the real estate industry?

I always had a mindset for business, starting with buying and selling sports
cars in high school. To date, I've had over 40 cars and bought my first house in
Austin at 18 from the profit from selling the sports cars and had roommates who
helped offset my expenses.

While a finance major at University of Texas at Austin, I took some real estate
courses and law and real estate law courses, and then a part-time job assisting
a real estate appraiser at a syndication company, McLester, Grisham and Gardner.

Then I moved to their land brokerage division, selling land along the south
Interstate 35 corridor and researching ownership and title by hand.

What are some of the highlights of your career?

Being part of shaping the major retail areas of Austin has been rewarding, and
my favorite aspect of this is helping others be successful.

When selling Sam's Club their site in 1991 in the Arboretum area, a friend said
that will never work there because it can't be seen from U.S. 183, and Loop 360
was only planned. It's been the top Sam's in Texas for two decades since.

Other brokers told me the Sunset Valley Marketfair shopping center site (which
Rowe and Bill Russell brokered the land sale for in 1991 and recruited anchors
to, including T.J. Maxx and Ross Dress for Less) would never work since it
lacked the two essentials of retail: population and traffic. Now the Sunset
Valley retail market has been so successful that Sunset Valley has no property
tax because sales tax carries the city budget.

Over the years, I've learned that when you're a visionary, most will tell you
that you're wrong, so choose carefully whose advice you take to heart. Never
underestimate the power of not knowing it can't be done.

What do you like most about your work?

Chicago Title has a great team of people, both in Austin and across the region
and country. To be able to spend my day focused on increasing the success of
others is very rewarding. The ability to creatively solve problems during the
life of the contract has significantly increased the ratio of the commercial
deals we have closed. Joining a company that makes over three-fourths of the net
profit in the entire industry adds to our success.

What are the most challenging aspects?

The challenges are what make it interesting. The biggest challenges mask the
biggest opportunities.

On the title side, records are kept by county, yet in an increasingly national
market, deals are negotiated across county lines.

The biggest challenge is working through the real estate cycles and changes,
always adapting. Many of us who have been through the cycles have battle scars
to prove it, yet we persevere because we love this business.

Who have been some of your key influences?

David Williams, with whom who I bought and sold many of the sports cars, taught
me how it's OK to chart your own course, and sail in different wind than the
other racers. You'll either be first or last but not lost in the middle.

David Honeycutt, who was my broker on the Interstate 35 corridor and later
founded Texas American Resources, first taught me the business and how to
specialize in an area and product type, trace land and ownership, work with
buyers and sellers and how much fun real estate is. I learned from one of the
best.

Jerry Lumsden, who managed the CBRE office when I was one of the founding
brokers, taught me many lessons, including never bring a problem to someone
where you don't bring at least two solutions.

Most of all, my girls, Joy and Zoe, are my best teachers of all, as teenage
daughters will easily keep you humble.

What advice would you give to someone wanting to get into the real estate
industry today?

Find the smartest mentor you can, work with them, learn from them and keep your
overhead low so your initial income is not a factor when making your choices.
Always, always do the right thing. Run, don't walk, from anything that isn't
right. If you wouldn't want it printed on the front page of the paper, don't do
it. Persevere, and only be in this business for the long term. Help as many
other people succeed as you can. The people are the best part of the business.

Contact Shonda Novak at

445-3856

About this series: Statesman Sunday Interview
 There are many interesting and insightful people in the Central Texas business
 community. On Sundays, the American-Statesman business reporting team brings
you in-depth interviews with some of them, focusing on topics that matter to
our community. To nominate someone for the Statesman Sunday Interview, email
Statesman business editor Barry Harrell at bharrell@statesman.com



LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

A New Yorker's take on Texas

BYLINE: Joe Gross American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 863 words


Gail Collins would like to make one thing quite clear: This isn't personal, and
that she met many wonderful people in Texas, both when she was in the Lone Star
State researching "As Texas Goes ... :

How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda" and after.

"Except for the one who told me he was going to stuff a rattlesnake down my
throat, a lot of the Texans I have spoken with about the book have been very
nice," the New York Times columnist said with a laugh. "They say I am missing
the subtleties of Texas life. That is absolutely true. This is very much an
outsider's view of what Texas means."

"As Texas Goes" takes a sharp, often very funny look at how Texas politics has
influenced public policy across the country, how what happens in Texas -
regarding everything from textbooks to sex education to environmental
deregulation - has a rippling, boulder-into-the-lake impact on the republic.

Uh, the Republic of the United States of America, not just the Republic of
Texas.

I mention that, as a Texas transplant from elsewhere myself, I found that the
more I tried to understand Texas, the more I found that as long as I remembered
that Texas was once another country entirely, the more everything made sense.

"That's very true," Collins said. "But you know, Vermont was a republic for
longer than Texas was (14 years versus about nine)."

Then again, Texans take to being Texans like few others take to being from their
state. "I loved looking down at the floor from the Rotunda and seeing this
monster Texas Republic (seal), and it's surrounded by all these other (seals),
one of which is the United States," Collins said. "That was my first real sense
of, 'Well this is a deep feeling.'"

The problem, as Collins sees it, is a fundamental difference between the "empty
places" and the "crowded places" ideology.

In crowded places, such as New York City or Chicago, government is seen having a
role in daily life. Rules and laws and regulations keep you safe from one
another.

But in empty places, such as Texas, government is just not seen as all that
necessary or desired or perhaps even available. (Texas makes a big exception to
this idea when it comes to sex, reproductive education and almost anything to do
with the naughty bits, but that's a whole 'nother box of condoms.)

"There's a sense that you just don't need government," Collins said. "You drive
around Texas, you really do have this feeling - 'There is nobody else around
here but me.' Even if you live in the suburb of a big city, if you drive an hour
and a half to get to work, you've got to feel you are in a place very big and
empty. There's an idea that there is plenty of space and you're not going to get
in anybody else's way."

The problem, as Collins sees it, is that Texas' population explosion, its weight
and power, make it a player far beyond its own borders.

"One of the things I was trying really hard to do in the book is test this
question of states' rights," Collins said. That is, to what extent is Texas law
the business of Texas alone or, given the amount of power the state has, the
concern of the entire country.

"The rest of us have a stake in what Texas does," Collins said, from the sheer
number of Texans (and, by that token, Texas-educated people) coming into the
workforce in the next decade to environmental policy and climate change to
education policy, especially No Child Left Behind.

I suggested that Texas is in a position that California was in a few decades
ago.

"I was just in California and (suggested a similar idea), that we are now in the
Texas period," Collins said. "I think some Californians are wounded by this
Texans thing. I mean, there was a time when I would call California, and people
would tell me, 'If it's not about the Pacific Rim, it's totally irrelevant to
the future.' Well, New York's population is flat and California's struggling
economically."

Texas, on the other hand, avoided much of the housing crisis and, as Collins
puts it, "does not appear to me particularly nuts when it comes to immigration."

"The state's ability to integrate its humongous young Hispanic population into
economic and political leadership is a good sign, I think," she adds.

A few notes

Journalist and columnist Leonard Pitts Jr. signs his new novel "Freeman" 7 p.m.
Tuesday at Bookpeople. ... The Summer Solstice Song Circle takes place at
BookWoman tonight at 6:30 p.m. ... Poets Julie Choffell, author of "The Hello
Delay," and Nick Courtright, author of "Punchline," read their works at
BookPople 7 p.m Thursday. ... This column is now a weekly affair. If you are a
local author or publisher who wants to let me know about an upcoming event or
new work, let me know at jgross@statesman.com It cannot hurt to include the
phrase "THE READER" in all caps in the subject line of your email. We are not in
a position to review self-published books or "vanity press" books. Thanks.

As Texas
Goes ...
 How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda
 Gail Collins
W.W. Norton, $25.95 Meet the author
 Gail Collins reads from, discusses and signs copies of "As Texas Goes ... :
How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda" at 7 p.m. Monday at
BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.



LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

No detail unrestored

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1321 words


The light fixture looked tacky. The ornate lantern hanging over the stairwell
was painted bright gold. It didn't fit with the dignified décor at the 1928
mansion.

"Then we noticed the leaf patterns from the handrail were repeated in the light
fixture," restoration architect John Volz says. "So we used a computer-operated
microscope to micrograph it and saw the original, oxidized metal color with gold
highlights on the fixture."

For Volz - and hands-on developer Clark Lyda - restoring the Commodore Perry
Mansion was part detective work, part excavation, part wisdom acquired from
rigorous labor on other old Austin structures.

As anyone who has explored the former residence and longtime school since it
reopened earlier this year knows, the mansion - designed by Austin-born,
Dallas-based architect Henry Bowers Thompson - is magnificent.

Lyda certainly thought so. He attended school on the grounds of the estate,
which rises above the Hancock Golf Course at 41st and Red River streets. The
hilltop mansion, outer buildings down along Waller Creek and formal gardens
planted over a former quarry have been Austin landmarks since they were built by
cotton trader and real estate developer Edgar Howard Perry and his wife, Lutie
Perry. ("Commodore" was not an official title, but rather an affectionate one.)

Lyda daydreamed about returning the Italianate manse to its former glory. Once
he purchased the 10,800-square-foot house and its 10-acre wooded site, he faced
an ugly reality.

"We found neglect," Volz says. "Basically, decades of deferred maintenance -
roof leaking, windows not functioning, holes in the roof, raccoons in the
attic."

The small academies that had inhabited the estate since the 1940s just couldn't
afford to keep a big historic structure in ship shape.

"Running a private school is difficult enough," Lyda admits. "Put it in an
80-year-old building and that's a whole other set of complications. I mean, they
loved this place. But it's a money pit."

Luckily, the original design documents survived in a secure safe on the
property. (Note to homeowners: Do the same.) The restorers also found
black-and-white photos from 1928 at the Austin History Center. (Note to owners
of historic homes: Do the same.)

Interestingly, the designs and images indicate that what was planned was not
always what was built.

"Architects didn't always get their way back then either," Lyda jokes within
Volz's hearing while we tour every corner of the two-story mini-palace,
including matching guest bedrooms and copious servants' quarters.

In some rooms, the pair decided that deep cleaning, a little painting or
stripping out unworthy decor would do. Elsewhere, they confronted more
distressing damage.

"After one rainstorm, the arches of the loggia were saturated with water," Volz
says. "We drilled a hole in the bottom of the arches and all of a sudden - Villa
d'Este! - water shooting from the building in many places."

The wrap-around windows in the east wing's solarium had suffered extensive
damage from water, termites and rot.

"It had it all," Volz says. "We rebuilt them from solid walnut with specially
created knives. Turns out the original was just walnut veneer."

The ceiling in a ballroom downstairs leaked badly. Guardians of the last school
in the building had just kept a bucket under the spot. Digging deeper, the
restorers found a sponge stuffed inside the ceiling where somebody had tried to
stop the perennial leak.

For windows that suffered normal sun damage and rotting wood, the rebuilders
used an epoxy wood hardener to consolidate the surviving material, then an epoxy
filler where wood was missing. They also refurbished the original hardware on
the doors and windows.

The oak floors and walnut paneling remained in pretty good condition, all things
considered, especially inside an oval office lined with steamed and molded wood.
The marble floors, however, had turned yellow. Dirt, sealants and wax had
penetrated the surfaces. Stone restorers were drafted to bring back the original
colors and textures.

Some features, such as the English-manor fireplaces - fueled by gas logs - were
in pristine condition. Lyda and Volz agreed to re-stucco outside chimneys.

The stained-glass windows presented another puzzle. How were they constructed?
In some windows, the lead had been hand-textured with a ball peen hammer.
Exposure to ultraviolet light has created a chemical change in the glass that
has caused pieces to shift into lavender or purple. These and the original
peacock glass front door went to glass restorer James Zollo. Throughout the rest
of the house, a lot of the work was done by San Antonio-based Truax Construction
and its in-house craftsmen.

While some Austin families might spend years rebuilding a favorite old house,
few would take this trouble.

"We spent a lot of time looking at colors trying to match stock paint chips,"
Volz says. "Using a microscope, we identified the original color on the cornice,
windows, light fixture and metal railings. We tried to find a stock paint color
that matched the original cornice and window color, but there were none. So we
had the original color custom matched to a sample of the original paint that we
had exposed on a piece of decorated cornice that had been removed."

'This house took enormous craftsmanship to build," Lyda says of the 1920s
project. "Now that is repeated at a much higher cost of labor."

Lyda's vision for the estate includes a culinary center, organic gardens and a
modest place for visitors to stay on the grounds. His first and most natural
customers were wedding parties and charities that might also use the restored
chapel, which dates from a later decade. Within months, Lyda ran into a
procedural wall.

"It's still zoned single-family," he sighs. "Despite the fact it was used as a
school and for special events since 1948."

A neighbor used a City of Austin ordinance disallowing public assembly of more
than 49 people in a private home to protest a benefit for the Heritage Society
of Austin and Austin Classical Guitar Society. The party went on, but after that
skirmish, Lyda postponed most future bookings until the estate's zoning status
is ironed out.

Meanwhile, it's a blast to probe beyond the stately public rooms on the first
floor. What, for instance, to make of a truncated mantle in Mrs. Perry's bedroom
that hides a full-size fireplace behind it?

Lyda and Volz speculate she might have acquired a tapestry or art object that
was suspended over this specifically designed low fireplace.

Some parts of upper living quarters endure in near-mint condition: Pink and
purple tile bathrooms for the two guest rooms, a spacious changing room with
decorative grilles for the Perrys' adult son and a pop-out dressing table for
the matriarch.

The servants shared six bedrooms - two in the house, three over the garage and
one in the caretaker's cottage. They kept in contact with the Perry family
through a call system that connected color-coded rooms. The labels are still
affixed to the speakers.

Perhaps the most telling detail: A modest room at the top of the stairs not far
from the elevator. It's about the size of a living room for a bungalow from the
period. In fact, it's where the Perry family spent the most time because of its
intimate, manageable scale.

Such a carefully designed residence responds sensitively to the Texas climate
through windows, doors and vents to prevailing breezes, protective overhangs and
landscaping, plus cork lining in the walls and ceiling. Air conditioning was not
added until 1985.

"It's a very sophisticated early 20th century house," Volz says. "We were
working here without air conditioning last summer, and it was still pretty mild
with doors and windows open. It was really designed to function without air
conditioning. I guess our standards have been upgraded."

Lyda agrees, "It's really a pretty green house."

Contact Michael Barnes at mbarnes@statesman.com or 445-3970 Body copy

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 404 words


Perry's complicated plan

There was a time when a simple solution was possible - to raise state gasoline
taxes a few cents, allowing more roads to be built and maintained. Gov. Rick
Perry chose the complicated: setting up a toll road authority involving foreign
investors. Now there is an up to 50 percent increase in tolls coming. Don't you
just love Perry's plan now?

Paul Schulz-Behrend

ps-b@att.net

Austin

Toll road confusion

Help me understand. I (may) drive the toll road once or twice a year headed up
to Dallas from San Marcos. How do I pay for my drive on the toll road for my
infrequent trips? What if someone is just passing through? What if I
accidentally enter the toll road (that's happened before!). How do we/they pay?
Also, what happened to lowering the cost to truckers to get them off Interstate
35 and free up the traffic congestion caused by truckers?

Cathleen Cranford

San Marcos

Obama did praise SEALs

"No Easy Day" author Mark Owen writes his first-hand account as a Navy SEAL on
the mission that killed Osama bin Laden. Perfectly timed to coincide with the
presidential election, Owen, who dislikes President Barack Obama, nonetheless
manages to cough up praise for Obama for approving the assault on bin Laden as
well as the 2009 successful mission to free ship Capt. Richard Phillips from
pirates off the coast of Somalia.

What's his beef about Obama? That he "took political credit" for the missions.
Forget that when announcing the death of bin Laden, Obama thanked and praised
the men who carried out the mission. I wonder if George "Mission Accomplished"
Bush would have taken credit for bin Laden's death if ever given the chance?

Judith Sloan-Price

Austin

Fearing Republicans

i fear Republicans. I fear their repression of voting rights. I fear their
favoritism of the wealthy. I fear their ignorance of science, especially in
regard to man-made climate change. I fear the enforcement of their bigoted
notions against women. I fear for my health as they gut environmental laws. I
fear for my safety as they cut fire and police positions. I fear for my economy
as they make education more difficult to obtain. I fear for the children of my
friends as they will be cannon fodder in unprovoked wars that make military
suppliers rich.

I can't imagine why anyone other than the rich or those intolerant of other
people's rights would ever cast a vote for Mitt Romney or any other Republican.

Dale Stevens

Plantersville

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CALENDAR

BYLINE: Virginia Yapp American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 464 words


"Fall Vegetable Gardening." 9:30 a.m. today . Covers the basics of fall
gardening. Backbone Valley Nursery, 4201 FM 1980, Marble Falls. Free.
830-693-9348, www.backbonevalleynursery.com.

Boerne's Think Green Fair. 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. today . Features films,
presentations and crafting. Main Plaza, 100 N. Main St., Boerne. Free.
830-249-4616, www.cibolo.org.

"Five Edibles That Practically Grow Themselves." 10 a.m. today . A presentation
by Renee Studebaker. The Natural Gardener, 8648 Old Bee Cave Road. Free.
288-6113, www.naturalgardeneraustin.com.

"Wildlife in Austin." 10 a.m. today . Lynne and Jim Weber give a
presentation;hosted by Zilker Docents. Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton
Springs Road. $2 admission. 970-3405, www.zilkergarden.org.

Austin Museum Day at the Wildflower Center. Noon to 5 p.m. Sunday . Features
discussions, tours and kids' activities. Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center,
4801 La Cross Ave. Free admission all day. 232-0100, www.wildflower.org.

Austin Area Begonia Society meeting. 2 p.m. Sunday . Zilker Botanical Garden,
2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. 327-0401.

Austin Butterfly Forum Club meeting. 7 p.m. Monday . Nichole Bennett gives a
presentation on "Investigating Climate Change Impacts with Edith's Checkerspot
Butterfly." Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free.
www.austinbutterflies.org/calendar.

Garden Club of Austin meeting. 7 p.m. Thursday . A presentation on "Getting
Ready for Fall Gardening." Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road.
Free. 444-8765.

Zilker Botanical Garden Open House. 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Friday . A chance to learn
more about area garden clubs, with tours, demonstrations and more. Zilker
Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. Free. 477-8672,
www.zilkergarden.org.

"Compost Tea 101." 10:30 a.m. Sept. 29. Learn to create your own garden
fertilizer. Hampton Branch Library at Oak Hill, 5125 Convict Hill Road. Free.
854-9600, http://travis-tx.tamu.edu/horticulture/seminars/.

"How to Create a Prize-Winning Container Garden." 2 p.m. Sept. 30. A
presentation by Dolores Gibbs. It's About Thyme Garden Center, 11726 Manchaca
Road. Free. 280-1192, www.itsaboutthyme.com.

Round Rock Area Garden Club meeting. 9:15 a.m. Oct. 1. Bring plants for the
club's annual Fall Plant Swap. Baca Center, 301 W. Bagdad Ave., Round Rock. $1.
218-5499.

Georgetown Garden Club meeting. 1:30 p.m. Oct. 4. Shari Lakin discusses bonsai
care. Georgetown Parks & Recreation Community Room, 1101 N. College St.,
Georgetown. Free. www.georgetowngardenclub.org.

Kingsland Garden Club meeting. 1 p.m. Oct. 5. Features a program on "Growing
Bearded Iris." Kingsland Library, 125 W. Polk St., Kingsland. Free.
325-388-8849, http://www.yantislakesidegardens.com/kingsland-garden-club.

Compiled by Virginia Yapp; garden@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 23, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Startup mentors thrive in Austin

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf and Lori Hawkins kladendorf@statesman.com
lhawkins@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2613 words


Monty Goulet is working to build his startup, Maestro Interactive Games, into a
viable mobile gaming firm.

But as a first-time entrepreneur, Goulet - who is 23 - has a tight budget and a
lot to learn. So when he heard about Tech Ranch, an Austin incubator that leases
affordable space and offers mentoring sessions and classes by high-tech
veterans, he wanted in.

"When you're just starting out, those kinds of resources make a huge
difference," said Goulet, who moved to Austin after graduating from college in
New Orleans last year. "At a university, the business classes are hypothetical.
At Tech Ranch, you're studying your actual business with industry people who
have done it before."

Today, Tech Ranch has been joined by a new wave of business incubators that have
sprung up over the past few years in Austin and elsewhere in the country. More
than a dozen incubatorlike programs are happening in and around Austin and more
are on the way. Most of them are nonprofit organizations, but a growing number,
like Tech Ranch, are for-profit businesses that typically take an ownership
stake in companies they help.

The bulk of the incubator programs are being formed to speed the journey of
young companies either to quick validation of their business plans or to rapid
failure. The idea is to move fast, identify early challenges and either overcome
them and win investment dollars or pull the plug and try something else.

The incubators are intent on helping to change the face of Austin's business
community by providing the crucial support system for new companies that can
help drive the economy forward. They are also a critical resource that
entrepreneurs from outside Austin look for when they consider moving to town. A
variety of companies, including the 3-year-old startup SpareFoot Inc., were
attracted to Austin by incubator programs. More are expected to come in the
future.

Today, the recent graduates of the local incubators collectively employ several
hundred people. Within the next several years that figure could grow to several
thousand, experts say, but there are no guarantees. Startups are inherently
high-risk operations that can have both exciting highs and painful lows.
Collectively there is a payoff. Austin Technology Incubator, the oldest of
Austin incubators, recently estimated its economic impact in Austin over three
years at $100 million.

Because of Austin's high-tech history, most of the incubators in town are
tech-related. But at least a few local incubators, including Incubation Station,
are aimed at nontech startups.

"The next great company to come out of Austin will come out of these
accelerators and incubators," predicted Mike Rollins, president of the Greater
Austin Chamber of Commerce. "This is where the jobs will be created in our town
and for our children. This is the next-generation economy."

While anecdotal evidence points toward a surge in tech startup formation in
Austin in recent years, the overall national data on new business formation is
more discouraging. In a study released this month, the Hudson Institute said the
number of new startups and new jobs from startups dropped sharply between 2006
and 2010.

But economist Bernard Weinstein at Southern Methodist University's Cox School of
Business said it's not unusual to see business trends in Austin and other tech
centers run counter to overall national data.

"Austin is special," Weinstein said. "Austin has a unique mix of lots of young
people who are highly educated plus venture capital and a base of high-tech
companies. When you put those things together, Austin looks pretty good."

'A perfect fit'

The Austin-area incubators are happening both in the public sector and the
private sector. The University of Texas has more than a half-dozen
startup-related programs going on and more on the way. And Texas State
University is starting a new incubator as part of its new STAR research park in
San Marcos. But other programs are from the private sector, like Tech Ranch,
Capital Factory and a newly arrived program from Philadelphia called Dreamit
Ventures. The latter three usually take an ownership stake in companies they
support, from less than 1 percent to 6 percent.

Dreamit is a nationally prominent program that has accelerator programs in
Philadelphia, New York, Israel and now Austin. Its companies have raised more
than $80 million in early investment in the past four years.

"The scene in Austin is really a perfect fit," said Dreamit managing partner
Kerry Rupp. "It's got great existing startups, seed capital, experienced service
providers, startup leaders and mentors and a university that is pumping out all
kinds of interesting ideas and people."

Dreamit will choose 10 companies for its inaugural Austin class. In exchange for
a 6 percent stake in each company, Dreamit will provide up to $25,000 in
investment, coaching by experienced entrepreneurs, office space and services
including legal, accounting and administrative help.

While the numbers keep expanding, experts agree that Central Texas has more
programs in place to help young businesses than ever before. Some call
themselves "incubators." Others go by the term "accelerators." Most local
incubators are nonprofit organizations, while accelerators most often are
for-profit organizations.

Bob Metcalfe, the tech entrepreneurial legend who teaches a class in startups at
UT, has taken to calling the support organizations "whatever-ators." Metcalfe
helps run two "whatever-ator" programs for students and plans a third, aimed at
faculty members, this fall.

"We are in a whatever-ator boom," Metcalfe said. "They are proliferating right
now."

The latest wave of private sector accelerator companies got its start in places
like Silicon Valley and has quickly spread to other tech towns. The biggest
names nationally among these accelerator companies are Y Combinator, based in
Mountain View, Calif., and TechStars, which was started in Boulder, Colo., but
has branched to other cities.

Metcalfe notes that the current boom has spread across much of the country and
he expects it eventually will fade.

"A lot of the ones that are cropping up now will die on the vine," he said. "I
hope ours survive. The way they survive is to produce results."

Seeking results

Results are hard to judge for most local incubator programs, because they are
too new and so are the companies they have worked with. The exception is Austin
Technology Incubator, which was formed in 1989 and has worked with more than 200
companies.

Those companies have gone on to raise more than $750 million in early funding.
Among its recent graduates is Calxeda Inc., which appears on its way to becoming
a substantial player in low-power server technology. Calxeda, which raised $48
million in its first round of venture funding in 2010, expects to have 100
employees by the end of this year.

Most Austin incubator companies involve considerably less technical invention
than Calxeda. Many of them are Internet software startups - like Goulet's
company - that hope to create a product or a service that can be sold online or
as an application on mobile devices. The cost of starting such companies has
dropped sharply in recent years, which is part of the reason for the recent
surge in startups. Veteran tech entrepreneurs, including Kip McClanahan, say the
cost of creating a successful Internet startup may be about a tenth as much as
it was in the 1990s, thanks to cloud computing, open source software and
standardized legal documents.

When McClanahan started Broadjump Inc. in 1998, he raised $5 million that
enabled the company to complete its first product. A comparable company today,
McClanahan said, could make the same progress for $500,000 to $2 million.

That reduction in cost has attracted investors to startups, because they can
make smaller bets on individual companies.

One budding success story McClanahan points to is SpareFoot Inc., which counts
itself as the largest online marketplace for self-storage space. The company was
started by two college students from Los Angeles, who moved to Austin in 2009 to
be part of the Capital Factory accelerator program.

Three years later, the company, with offices at 720 Brazos St., has nearly 50
workers and is close to self-sustaining on its business operations. It has
raised $4.5 million in two investment rounds.

CEO Chuck Gordon said the intense 10 weeks he and his co-founders spent in the
Capital Factory program exposed them to a network of business experts who
encouraged the young company to do the hard work involved in testing the online
market for small storage companies and their customers.

"We had mentors who were experts in sales and they gave us tactical advice on
how to be successful on the phone" when talking with potential customers. "We
had never made a cold call in our lives. We signed up thousands of storage
places in our first year. ... We were constantly asking people for advice. And
they took time to help us and that made a difference."

'Die trying'

Hundreds of people in Austin are involved in assisting local startups, and most
of them offer their time and help freely. Isaac Barchas, director of Austin
Technology Incubator for the past six years, says his organization's support
network reaches to several hundred former entrepreneurs, would-be investors and
professionals such as lawyers, accountants and technical experts who are willing
to offer guidance to young companies.

Some of those who get involved are looking for a company to work for or to
invest in, Barchas said. Others are simply bored and want something to do. Still
others see being involved as a fun way to pay back Austin for their own success.

Startup experts and investors consider Austin Technology Incubator to be one of
the strongest tech incubator programs in the country, and Barchas says the key
to its success has been the huge network of experts he and his team can tap into
to help its companies.

Research of incubator programs around the country concludes that most are
ineffective, because they lack the right management or the right support
networks of experienced entrepreneurs and investors.

Barchas says the various incubatorlike programs in Austin have worked to find
their own niches and generally avoid open rivalry. Austin Technology Incubator
prides itself on working with companies that are tackling tougher technical
challenges that might require more time for invention and marketing.

The incubator has numerous outside admirers, including Larry Peterson, director
of the Texas Foundation for Innovative Communities, which operates several
research parks and incubators around the state.

"ATI's focus is more like a tough-love boot camp," Peterson said. "You move up
or you move out. You are either going to succeed or die trying."

Despite the newfound local enthusiasm for startups, Rob Adams, who heads Texas
Venture Labs at UT's McCombs School of Business, cautions that the basic math
about startups hasn't changed. Most of them will fail even with the best of
help.

Startups and incubators, Adams said, can be part of Austin's economic
development strategy, but they are unlikely to become the largest part, because
of the high failure rate for young companies.

"Everybody thinks they have the secret formula for success, but the data from
venture fund returns suggest differently," Adams said. "The probability of
success with a startup is between 10 and 20 percent, and that is not changing."

'Engaged really fast'

That hasn't deterred programs like Tech Ranch, which continues building its own
entrepreneurial ecosystem.

Over the past four years, it has mentored more than 300 entrepreneurs. Its
11,000-square-foot headquarters in Northwest Austin provides space for 30 teams,
which pay between $400 and $650 a month for a small office and use of the larger
space. Kevin Koym, who co-founded Tech Ranch with fellow tech veteran Jonas
Lamis in 2008, said his goal is to work with a larger base of entrepreneurs
through training and mentoring sessions. Over the past three years, it has
hosted dozens of programs, which range in cost from $600 for an eight-week boot
camp to $150-a-month entrepreneur support sessions.

"We're maniacally focused on building a community around the entrepreneur," said
Koym, who has an electrical engineering degree from UT and has worked in
engineering roles at companies including NeXT Computer (now part of Apple). He
has since launched six software startups and invested in several others.

"When I worked in the Bay Area, I saw that they're very efficient about
connecting startups and resources," Koym said.

"Ten seconds after an entrepreneur hits the ground, they can get in a network
that can steer them to the right people. That helps you get engaged really fast,
much faster than I'd ever seen happen here. Being part of a strong community can
play a huge role in things like finding cheap office space, raising seed funding
and getting product feedback and early customers."

For Goulet, the mobile gaming entrepreneur, being a Tech Ranch tenant has given
his team access to new people and ideas.

"Everyone's door is open. The guys down the hall do video production, and we
work with them. There's a lot of cross-collaboration, with people making
introductions for each other," said Goulet, whose team is developing its first
3-D game for the PlayStation and iPad. "After being in this environment, it's
hard to imagine working on your own in an office somewhere."

BUSINESS INCUBATORS IN AUSTIN
A sampling of business incubators and accelerators. Find a longer list with
this story online at statesman.com.
\u25A0 Austin Technology Incubator
3925 W. Braker Lane
 Founded: 1989
 Director: Isaac Barchas
 Affiliation: University of Texas at Austin
 Number of companies: 18 companies at present. Has worked with 200 companies
over the years and helped them raise a combined $750 million in investment.
 The original local startup organization. Considered among the top university
incubators in the country.
\u25A0 Capital Factory
701 Brazos St.
 Founded: 2009
 Director: Joshua Baer
 Affiliation: Allied with Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce's Austin Tech Live
 program
 Number of companies: More than 40
 Business accelerator and co-working space in a jazzy, stylish downtown
high-rise setting. Baer wants it to become a 'center of gravity' for tech
entrepreneurship in Austin.
\u25A0 Longhorn Startup Camp
1616 Guadalupe St. (until December; probably moving at end of this year)
 Founded: 2012
 Director: Bob Metcalfe
 Affiliation: UT and One Semester Startup program
 Number of companies: About 30
 Brainchild of tech pioneer-engineering professor Bob Metcalfe in collaboration
 with ATI.
\u25A0 Tech Ranch
9111 Jollyville Road, Suite 100
 Founded: 2008
 Director: Kevin Koym
 Affiliation: Independent
 Number of teams on site: About 30
 Tech Ranch has mentored more than 300 Austin entrepreneurs over the past four
years, hosts training programs, mentoring sessions and boot camps, and provides
 affordable office and co-working space to teams getting off the ground.
\u25A0 Dreamit Ventures
701 Brazos St.
 Founded: 2007
 Managing partner: Kerry Rupp
 Affiliation: Independent
 Dreamit, a nationally prominent Philadelphia-based program, will start its
three-month boot camp in Austin in December. Its companies have raised more
than $80 million in early investment in the past four years.


ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COVERAGE
 Economic development in the Austin area is a priority topic for Kirk
Ladendorf, Lori Hawkins and the rest of the Statesman's business reporting
team. Our coverage has focused on everything from the debate over government
incentives for new employers to the rise of home-grown businesses and other key
 elements in the region's growth.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Teacher ignites love of science

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 749 words


At a recent party, innovative Austin educator Steve Amos overheard guests
talking about books they had written. Amused, he asked Karen Ostlund aloud how
many she had dashed off.

Ostlund: "More than 300."

To be precise, the Austinite, president of the National Science Teachers
Association, has written textbooks, which have required updated editions, as
science textbooks often do.

Still, more than 300 is a pretty impressive number.

A white-blond Midwesterner, Ostlund, 69, appears to smile perpetually. A
marathoner since 1983, she met me for coffee right after a Sunday morning
triathlon. I was shocked that she looked so rested.

"I volunteered to work in the medical tent," she later explained. "I'm a
runner."

Descended from Swedes, Slavs and Germans, Ostlund was born in Kenosha, Wis. Her
mother and father worked as mechanical engineers for American Motors. G ood in
school, she engaged in a lot of extra activities.

"I liked people," she says. "I had lots of friends. Our house was always open.
We'd go ice skating. My mother would make sloppy joes and hot chocolate. I guess
she figured she could watch over us."

She studied engineering at Purdue University, started a family, then moved to
Minnesota. There, she taught science and Spanish and eventually earned her Ph.D.
from the University of Minnesota.

Her second marriage was to Frederick W. Taylor, now a senior research scientist
at the Institute for Geophysics at the University of Texas Jackson School of
Geosciences.

Her son, Alden Balmer, is physics teacher at McNeil High School and CEO of Doc
Fizzix, a mousetrap car kit company. (You read that right.)

Wouldn't want to argue against evolution or climate change at that family dinner
table.

While she was teaching, Ostlund's specialty was that hard-to-sell age group
between elementary and high schools.

"Middle school students are totally out of sync, physiologically,
psychologically and emotionally," she says. "Yet they really gravitate toward
science. We always did science, we didn't just read science."

Every day, Ostlund led activities in physical, life and Earth sciences. Under
the guidance of two professors while in graduate school, she used her science
classroom as a lab for studying effective cooperative strategies with individual
accountability and group goals.

"We'd structure it so everyone in the group has a task," she says. "Unless they
all do their task, the group doesn't reach the group goal. And we'd rotate the
jobs so they all have a chance to be in leadership and subordinate roles."

She moved to Austin in 1984, teaching future science teachers at what is now
Texas State University-San Marcos. In 1991, she was given an academic
appointment at University of California-Berkeley, which she still holds, to
develop science curricula.

Since 1995, she has worked on and off at UT's Science Education Center. She was
instrumental in developing the breakthrough UTeach program which nurtures
potential science teachers early in their college careers.

She started writing textbooks on science activities and the process of inquiry
in the 1980s. Her favorite is "Destinations in Science," which encourages
teachers to turn their classrooms into an ocean or a pizza parlor in order to
investigate the science of that place.

The most popular book, however, is the more traditional "Scott Foresman Science"
which has sold hundreds of thousands of copies.

"I'm not rich," she says. "The companies get the money."

Finally, Ostlund also heads the 60,000-member science teachers group, making
sure the executive director and staff of more than 100 promote excellence and
innovation in science teaching.

Currently, they are working on the next generation of national science
standards.

"States like Texas won't adopt them," she says. "But we have to get the
standards up to speed so people can use them in their classrooms."

Decades ago, science skeptics were often dreamy-eyed romantics who doubted the
primacy of reason. Now they are just as likely to be religious fundamentalists,
who claim biblical primacy over science.

"It makes me wonder about their science background," she says. "It tells me we
need a citizenry that is scientifically literate. It starts with having good
science teachers in the classroom."

One of her hardest tasks is to convince people that science isn't just for
scientists.

"Science is all around us," she says. "We all need it. If you cook, if you just
run a household or run a car, it's science."

Contact Michael Barnes at 512-445-3970. Twitter: @outandabout

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Manufacturing growth slows

BYLINE: Dan Zehr dzehr@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 413 words


Texas manufacturers reported continued growth in October, although the pace of
expansion slowed and new orders dipped during the month, according to a monthly
report released Monday by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey's key production index dipped to a
reading of 7.9 in October, down from a reading of 10.0 the month before. The
lower reading suggested manufacturing activity still expanded this month, but at
a slower rate than in September.

While the pace of production ebbs and flows, October marked the 11th consecutive
month the production index finished in positive territory, indicating expansion.
Because the index tends to track closely with the state's broader economic
activity, it provides one of the timeliest glimpses into the state of the Texas
economy.

Many of the survey's measures continued to signal an expansion of manufacturing
activities, but producers reported a sizable decline in new orders. The index of
new orders swung from a growing plus 5.3 reading in September to a contracting
minus 4.5 this month.

In anecdotal comments, producers painted a mixed picture of conditions. Several
reported limited customer demand due to the ongoing political and macroeconomic
uncertainty. Others, at times within the same industry, reported steady growth.

Computer and electronics manufacturers noted some concerns about slow end-user
demand impacting their production. Several food manufacturers noted that rising
commodity costs, including corn and milk, were pressuring their production.

Labor demand grew slowly but steadily in October, the report said, but the hours
worked decreased.

Producers expected labor demand, wages and workweeks to be higher six months
from now, the survey showed.

While the indicators varied this month, measures of the manufacturers' current
and future outlooks on business conditions grew more optimistic in October.

The current view of company-specific and general business activity held steady
or ticked up slightly, but the same measures of activity six months from now
both posted solid improvements.

In an annual supplement to the monthly survey, the Dallas Fed also asked
producers about credit availability. A majority of respondents reported little
change in borrowing conditions compared with six months ago.

More than 40 percent - up from percentages in the mid-30s last year - said they
had no difficulty getting financing for both short- and long-term uses.

Contact Dan Zehr at 445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Rainless November Austin's first in 115 years

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 468 words


In the year of Austin's last rainless November - 1897 -the Civil War was a
recent enough memory that the University of Texas was forced to defend itself
over claims that "northern professors" were "teaching heresies."

Following an investigation, the regents announced "there has not been taught in
the University anything objectionable to southern people" and, other things
being equal, they confirmed that they opted for teachers who were "Texas men
first and southern men next."

One hundred fifteen years later, in the latest sign of a seemingly unshakable
drought, not one drop of rain was recorded at Camp Mabry during the November
just ended.

Only three other times - in 1871, 1894 and 1897 - has zero rain been recorded
during November at the Austin site since record-keeping began in 1856.

Nearly 3 inches fall in a typical November; this year, nothing. But thanks to
storms the first half of the year, 2012's precipitation is still outpacing the
average rainfall.

The drought, which just months ago was seemingly broken by all those rains, is
slowly reasserting itself in Central Texas.

The reasons for the dry weather can be found thousands of miles away, in the
Pacific and Atlantic oceans. Water temperatures - especially a cooling of water
in the Pacific - jet streams and changes in pressure systems mean that, for now,
Texas finds a dry, warm dome of air hovering overhead, according to Cory Van
Pelt, a National Weather Service meteorologist.

Travis and Hays counties are in now moderate drought - still not nearly as bad
as the worst-case exceptional drought category it was in 2011 - and Williamson
County has now landed in the severe category, according to the National Drought
Mitigation Center.

"Even though it hasn't rained in a while, farmers are still coming off good crop
production this year," said Jared Ripple, a Texas A&M AgriLife Extension agent
in Williamson County who works with farmers there to improve their row crops.
"While it could turn out to be 2011 all over again, spirits are still high
because they were able to produce a good crop."

Lakes Travis and Buchanan, the chief reservoirs of Central Texas, are now 42
percent full and falling. Officials with the Lower Colorado River Authority say
virtually no water has flowed into the Highland Lakes in November.

Long-term weather forecasts offer no hope for relief: The U.S. Climate
Prediction Center predicts that Texas' next three months will see above normal
temperatures and below normal rainfall.

The forecast for this weekend has a 20 percent chance of rain, at best, with a
mix of sun and clouds, said Pat McDonald, a National Weather Service
meteorologist.

Highs for the first weekend in December are expected to be near a tropical 80
degrees.

Contact Asher Price at

445-3643.

(GRAPHICS BOX: SEE MICROFILM)

November weather summary

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 23, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. F06

LENGTH: 831 words


Accident victim grateful

On Sunday, I had a one-car accident near Tech Ridge and Yager Lane. No one was
hurt, but I was fairly shook up. A gentleman immediately stopped to check to see
if we were OK and called 911. He was very kind, and I didn't think to get his
name before he left. The two policemen that showed up promptly were also very
kind and talked to me calmly and reassuringly until the tow truck showed up. Two
of my neighbors, recognizing my vehicle, were also kind enough to stop and check
on us. The tow driver was also courteous and efficient. While having an accident
is never pleasant, this was about as positive an experience as is possible. A
big thank-you to everyone who helped us.

Angela Philley

Austin

Why assault weapons?

It is obvious that the number of deaths in shootings like Sandy Hook are
increased significantly by the shooters having assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines. As a gun owner myself, I am not in favor of banning all guns, but
can't we at least agree to ban assault rifles and multibullet magazines? I've
never met a deer-, bird- or squirrel hunter yet who hunted with these. We would
still have adequate weapons for self-defense from home intruders or sinister
governments.

The Rev. Gus Browning

Cedar Park

Carbon tax needed

Re: Dec. commentary, "Global warming fatal to trees."

Thank you for this alarming but important op-ed. The dangerous chain reaction of
climate change cannot be underestimated. We have no time to lose in reversing
the damage we have done to our natural resources. As citizens are not helpless,
though; Americans must speak up and demand a carbon tax immediately. If we
return the revenue to U.S. citizens, it's a win-win situation for the economy
too.

Rachel Zindler

Austin

Packin' heat

Re: Dec. 18 article, "Perry: Let Texans be armed in public."

According to the American-Statesman, Gov. Rick Perry says a licensed gun carrier
"ought to have the right to carry his or her weapon in any public place." What
could we expect? Answer: Every deranged psycho and every hothead with a chip on
his shoulder would find a gun immediately available. Just grab one from the
nearest bystander.

Lon Gee

Austin

Vigilantes? No thanks

Re: Dec. 18 article, "Perry: Let Texans be armed in public."

Texas Gov. Rick Perry demonstrated once again why he will never make it to the
national presidential race when he "asserted that anyone who qualifies for a
concealed handgun license in Texas ought to have the right to carry his or her
weapons in any public place." That's all we need in public places is for
licensed gun owners to think and act as surrogate law enforcement officials when
a gunman with an automatic weapon opens fire on a crowd. The governor might want
to reconsider his suggestion and its impact on visitors from more civilized
states and countries coming to Texas to attend cultural and sports events. I
think those people would prefer visible, armed law officers than knowing that
there are unknown Texans with concealed guns around them.

Marvin H. Lehr

Austin

Chamber priorities off

Re: Dec. 18 commentary, "Spur more job creation by dropping wage floor."

The chamber's support of tax breaks for low-wage companies is foolhardy. The
chamber opposes the local tax policy requiring companies getting tax breaks to
pay $11-an-hour wages and hire local workers. These tax giveaways with unproven
benefits shouldn't be happening at all. But how foolhardy is it to give tax
breaks to a company that pays its workers so little the workers are still
dependent on government welfare services? Should we tax Austin homeowners - who
don't even get a homestead tax break - more to shift jobs and taxable property
outside of Austin? The chamber/Texas strategy is to trap lots of worker bees in
jobs with companies whose owners take too much of the honey for themselves and
pay too little for the labor that makes the product or provides the service. The
chamber should support economic development that gives working families enough
income to afford to live here.

Bill Aleshire

Aleshire@R-ALaw.com

Austin

Let officials take bus

The City Council's proposal to decrease the number of parking spaces downtown is
totally illogical. The council's plan to have people use "alternative
transportation" to limit traffic in that area is unrealistic. In making parking
more difficult, it will further discourage both residents who do not live
downtown and tourists from patronizing businesses there. Also, it is likely that
most people will have to drive to get near downtown, and if there is no parking
available, why go?

If the council passes this measure, all council members, the mayor and the city
manager should not be allowed to own cars but should be required to use
"alternative transportation" at all times. If they impose these stringent
parking restrictions, our elected officials should not be averse to riding a
bike or motorcycle, taking a bus or walking to wherever they need to go. They
should be paragons of what they support.

Dianne Pingree

Austin

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 23, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In 2012, job growth, new projects made Austin look like boomtown

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 2165 words


While it didn't entirely escape the national economy's struggles, the Austin
metro area continued to fare better than much of the United States in 2012. The
area saw positive job growth and declining unemployment, and continued to lure
major job-creating projects to Central Texas.

Here's a look back at some of Central Texas' top business stories for 2012:

JOB GROWTH

In a year when "jobless recovery" became the de facto description of the U.S.
economy, Austin continued to buck the national trend in 2012.

Companies in the greater metro area added more than 28,000 jobs through the
first 10 months of the year, according to data from the Texas Workforce
Commission, and they showed no evidence of slacking off in November and
December.

The job growth - one of the fastest rates among the country's 100 largest cities
- helped keep unemployment rates well below state and national levels. Adjusted
for seasonal employment trends, Austin's jobless rate ran an average of 2.2
percentage points lower than the nation in 2012, and 1.2 percentage points lower
than the state as a whole.

The local unemployment rate was 5.5 percent in October, its lowest point in
almost four years. (The workforce commission released November's employment
figures on Friday, after the advance deadline for Sunday's newspaper.)

The vast majority of industries in the region posted job gains during 2012.
Central Texas' average monthly payrolls in both the goods-producing and services
sectors increased 4.1 percent and 2.7 over last year's averages, according to
commission data.

The usual suspects provided the biggest push behind the job growth. The ongoing
population and development boom in the area produced a 9.6 percent increase in
construction jobs when comparing October to December 2011.

Professional, scientific and technical services companies, which include many of
Austin's high-tech firms, expanded their payrolls by 9.5 percent. And the number
of jobs at health care and social assistance firms expanded by 6.4 percent.

APPLE EXPANSION

One of the biggest wins of 2012 for area business recruiters was persuading
Apple Inc. to choose Austin for its proposed new operations center - a facility
expected to create more than 3,600 local jobs.

Although Apple has not commented publicly, construction work has started on the
tech company's $304 million expansion project on Parmer Lane in Northwest
Austin.

Apple will receive up to $36 million in state, city and county incentives over
the next 10 years if it lives up to its economic development agreement, which
includes creating 3,600 jobs over 10 years. The average annual wage for those
jobs is $63,950.

Most of the jobs created are expected to be tied to operations service, support
and finance for Apple's business in North and South America.

The company agreed to invest at least $56.5 million in the first phase of
expansion by the end of 2015. It proposes to invest another $226 million in
phase two of the project, which is due to be completed at the end of 2021.

Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple is a leading supplier of mobile devices, including
smartphones and tablets.

The company reported a profit of $42 billion on revenue of $157.1 billion for
the year ended in September.

SAMSUNG GROWTH

Samsung Electronics Co. is in the process of spending up to $4 billion in
converting roughly half of its Austin chip-manufacturing operation to a new,
potentially more profitable product.

The South Korean company, which is the world's second-largest chipmaker,
reiterated in December that its latest Austin project - the retrofitting of half
of its main fabrication operation in Northeast Austin - is expected to cost
about $4 billion and go into commercial production in the second half of 2013.

The project will shift much of the production of the Austin factory from flash
memory chips to advanced low-power processors that are used in mobile devices
such as smartphones and tablets.

The revamped part of the factory will make processors with critical dimensions
as small as 28 nanometers, a reduction in size from the existing manufacturing
technology used at the Austin plant. That advance translates into lower
production costs, higher production quantities and lower power consumption by
those chips.

While the big money is being spent on factory equipment for chip production,
much of the continuing job growth at Samsung in Austin is for chip design.

Samsung Austin employment totals 2,500 direct employees, of whom 200 work in its
chip design center.

Its manufacturing employment is not expected to change much in the coming year,
but company spokeswoman Catherine Morse says employment at the chip design
center in Northwest Austin will continue to expand.

CREDIT-CARD TECH

Credit card giant Visa Inc. decided in 2012 to bring a global information
technology center to Austin, a project that promises to invest more than $27
million locally and create nearly 800 jobs in Central Texas.

California-based Visa, which runs the world's largest payments network, will
receive a $1.6 million incentives package over 10 years from the city of Austin.
The city incentives deal partners with a state offer of $7.9 million for the
project from the state-run Texas Enterprise Fund.

Visa chose Austin over potential sites in Colorado and Virginia, according to
area business recruiters.

The center will employ at least 794 new full-time workers and retain 47 existing
jobs by the end of 2017. Visa has said that the jobs it creates in Austin will
have an average annual salary of more than $113,000 .

The company has pledged to fill at least 70 percent of its new jobs in Austin
with locally hired workers. Many of those are expected to be in software
development related to the financial services and products that Visa supports
worldwide.

The center is planned for 12301 Research Blvd., the former headquarters of
Emerson Process Management. Visa plans to spend $27.2 million on retrofitting
and equipping the 175,000-square-foot Northwest Austin office building.

Visa won passage of the city incentives agreement from the Austin City Council
after it agreed to a wage floor of $11 an hour for construction workers on its
project.

"Visa is continually looking for opportunities to add world-class talent to our
organization," company spokesman Will Valentine said in a statement. "Austin
offers a vibrant technology community and business-friendly climate."

DELL'S EVOLUTION

Dell Inc.'s multi-year transformational journey took a sharp turn toward
software in 2012.

The computer maker bought California-based Quest Software Inc. in September for
$2.4 billion.

Quest is expected to become a foundation upon which Dell will expand its
software product offerings over the next several years. Its software manages
databases, cloud computing applications, computer virtualization and more.

Software is one of three big technology pushes Dell is making to become an
"end-to-end" information technology provider to large and mid-sized business
customers. The others are services and advanced hardware systems that include
servers, networking and storage.

In November, Dell said its enterprise solutions business, which includes
services, software and advanced hardware for large and mid-sized business
customers, was on line to bring in more than $20 billion in revenue for the year
and account for more than half the company's profit.

That was the good news. The tougher news was that a global personal computer
sales slump and tough competition from China's Lenovo Group and others resulted
in a sharp downturn in Dell's core business and contributed to a sharp drop in
revenue and profits.

Analysts said CEO Michael Dell wants the company to push harder to expand its
new businesses to make up for increasing competition and falling profits in its
older PC lines.

Dell, along with other PC makers, rolled out new touch-centric personal
computers and tablets October in partnering with Microsoft Corp.'s launch of its
Windows 8 software.

The company took "limited planned actions" to cut jobs in Round Rock and
elsewhere in the company in September as part of its move to cut costs. Its
employment in Central Texas was about 14,000 out of a global workforce of more
than 100,000.

ELECTRICITY NEEDS

The Public Utility Commission spent the year trying to ensure that the state's
growing economy will have the electricity it needs.

Construction of new power plants has slowed to a trickle because low wholesale
prices isn't encouraging investment. Consultants have warned the state that
shortages could occur unless new investments are made.

"If the lights go out," utility commission chair Donna Nelson said, "I think I
have failed."

Twice this year, the utility commission raised the cap on wholesale prices that
spike during brief times of peak demand, but the commissioners stopped short of
creating a new wholesale market that would have paid investors for building
additional generating capacity.

Instead, state officials are betting that their tweaks will allow the market to
correct itself, with higher electricity prices attracting investment in new
plants.

PUBLIC AND PRIVATE

The Texas Facilities Commission made headlines this year as it promoted plans to
fully develop the Capitol Complex with private-sector partners helping finance,
design and build everything from state office buildings to a museum or
planetarium.

The small agency also stirred Austin neighborhood groups with proposals to
develop vacant state lands with public-private partnerships, the so-called P3s.

But at year's end, a critical report from legislative staff suggested the agency
should have collaborated more on its plans.

The Legislature is expected to have the last word; the agency is up for sunset
review next year.

GAMING GROWTH

In 2012, the video game industry continued to blossom in Austin.

Despite the economic downturn in the past few years, the gaming sector has
evolved from a niche industry into a key piece of Austin's creative sector.

From 2005 to 2010, gaming and digital media grew faster than any other creative
industry in Austin, drastically outpacing the more high-profile music and movie
industries.

The industry employed 2,848 people in 2005, with an economic output of almost
$390 million, according to a recent report by Austin economic consulting firm
TXP.

In 2010, those numbers had soared to 7,274 jobs and an economic impact of $991
million.

While that number of jobs is only about 1 percent of Austin's total workforce,
it is notable that the industry managed such significant growth through the
economic downturn.

And from a city perspective, the jobs are extremely valuable, with high salaries
and creative skill sets that dovetail nicely with Austin's identity.

An average industry employee in Texas made more than $87,000 in 2009, according
to an Entertainment Software Association report.

"I think we've kind of reached a critical mass," Stephen Kreher, director of
economic development for the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce, said earlier
this year about the area's video game industry.

"We've gotten to the point to where, sure, there's going to be ebbs and flows
... but I think we've reached a point to where we're on an upward track."

GROCER BOOMING

The past year was another strong one for Austin-based Whole Foods Market, as the
natural foods grocer's hot streak continued with a string of good earnings
reports and continued expansion.

Despite the economic downturn, Whole Foods has grown from 276 stores in 2007 to
more than 340 stores this year.

That's in contrast to large traditional chains such as Kroger, which has shrunk
from 2,486 stores in 2007 to about 2,422 stores this year, or Safeway (which
owns Randalls), down from 1,743 stores to 1,666 in the same period.

H-E-B, the dominant grocer in Central Texas, has bucked that trend, seeing its
number of Texas stores grow from 269 in 2007 to more than 300 stores this year.

Industry analyst Rick Shea said the grocery market has become divided, with
growth for higher-end stores such as Whole Foods and lower-end retailers such as
dollar stores as the economy continues to affect the middle class.

"And the middle guys - the Supervalus, Kroger, Safeway - are kind of getting
caught in the middle," said Shea, the head of Shea Marketing, an industry
consulting firm in Minneapolis.

Whole Foods is not the only store in the natural and organic sector to see
growth.

The Fresh Market, a North Carolina-based chain, has increased its number of
stores from 77 in 2007 to 128 this year - and the company has plans for more
expansion.

More people are becoming concerned about what they're eating, company officials
and analysts say.

The U.S. organic industry grew by 9.5 percent in 2011 to reach $31.5 billion in
sales, according to the 2012 Organic Industry Survey from industry group the
Organic Trade Association. Of that growth, the organic food and beverage sector
dominated, with $29.2 billion in sales, according to the survey.

As that market has grown, Whole Foods Market has cemented its status as the
best-known organic grocer in the country.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Guitarist Tom Morello takes lead of Occupy South by Southwest

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 966 words


The dichotomy of Tom Morello's personal and professional lives was on display
Friday at the Swan Dive in the first song of his late-night acoustic-electric
set. In "One-Man Revolution," he sang, "On the streets of Havana/I was hugged
and kissed/At the Playboy Mansion I was on the list."

As the trailblazing guitarist of Rage Against the Machine and a sought-after
session man, Morello enjoys many of the perks of rock stardom, including
standing elbow to elbow with Bruce Springsteen on the shiny stage of the plush
ACL Live on Thursday. As Morello's alter ego, the Nightwatchman, the
monkey-wrenching rabble-rouser and fiery political advocate, he played the
grungy, aptly-named Swan Dive, and his set was broadcast via a makeshift screen
to a makeshift cast of protestors, celebrators and activists who spilled out
into blocked-off lanes of Red River outside the club.

"Hello, badge holders," Morello said to those of us inside. "And hello to you
all out there on the People's Stage," he addressed those on the street. A cheer
wafted in through the door.

The evening was billed as "Occupy South by Southwest," which was catnip for
Morello. His leftist politics are, let us say, unalloyed, and his fierce, pithy,
passionate songs address race, class warfare, homelessness and income inequality
on a global scale.

The most musically charged moment of the evening might have been the ominous,
heavyweight version of Springsteen's "The Ghost of Tom Joad," a song he had sung
with Springsteen the night previously.

At the end of the night, as befitted the prevailing sentiment, it was time to
take the fight to the streets. Morello, serving as a self-appointed Pied Piper,
led the clubgoers outside to join the sidewalk audience, where he climbed on a
makeshift stage and led a rousing version of Woody Guthrie's "This Land is Your
Land."

- John T. Davis

Bill Murray makes

local band's night

Bill Murray likes Austin - this is not news. He was spotted all over SXSW this
year. This is my favorite Bill Murray story I have heard as of Saturday
afternoon.

Take it away, Tia Carrera guitarist Jason Morales!:

"Tia played at Headhunter's last night at 1 a.m. (technically Saturday morning).
It was probably about 2:30 or 3 when we were loading out. Suddenly Bill Murray
walks up and sticks his head in the van and says, 'What are you doing?'

"I told him we just played, and he helped us load out. It was pretty funny.
There's Bill Murray, helping us move gear into the van. He was pretty cool.

"When we were done, he asked if he and his entourage could get in the van with
us. But at that point, the van was completely full. So we had to call him a
cab."

And ... scene!

- Joe Gross

Laid-back day

at unofficial SXSW

Alejandro Escovedo's Annual Taco Party on the patio of Maria's Taco Express
Saturday afternoon offered a terrific lineup in about the most relaxed setting
you could probably find in Austin during SXSW, with an audience that appeared to
include a lot of people from the neighborhood, as well as musicians milling
around before or after their sets.

Krayola brothers Hector and David Saldana were resplendent in
rhinestone-bedecked suits, chatting with friends and fans.

I had pulled up to the back of the restaurant just as a band was finishing its
set with a fantastic cover of the Jam's "Town Called Malice." I asked at least
four people, "Who was that?" Apparently, everybody else had just walked up, too,
so I went over and bugged Escovedo, who replied, "John Velghe and the Prodigal
Sons - he has CDs for sale over there." Escovedo seemed to enjoy the role of
mentor and curator as well as host.

- Parry Gettelman

A dreamlike tour

in 'Big Easy Express'

With thousands of musicians performing all over the city on a warm St. Patrick's
Day afternoon, it felt fitting that Emmett Malloy's documentary "Big Easy
Express" closed SXSW Film at the Paramount Theatre.

A long tracking shot introduces the audience to the three bands jamming in
separate cars, as the silver California Zephyr train cruises through the western
United States. Rolling hills and flat prairies seen through train windows flip
by like Instagram photos in an album.

The bands decided to join forces on the train, we are told in voiceover, in
order to reconnect with the land and each other, to lift themselves back into
the magic of a simpler time. Another musician adds that it is a "tour of
dreams."

Much of the film is shot and told in a dreamlike style, the loose narrative
structure hinging on the ride to New Orleans and a decent amount of concert
footage. The film never probed too deeply into the reasoning behind the tour or
the musicians' inspiration or personal connection to the music they played.
Instead their playing did the talking.

- Matthew Odam

Style X produces runway

like no other

Style X, the two-day South by Southwest fashion extravaganza, officially closed
Saturday evening with a fashion show featuring musicians working the runway in
clothing from the emerging designers showcased in pop-up shops during the event.

One gray-bearded man came back to unofficially work the runway Saturday while
attendees were being seated. Seen crashing the event by walking the runway
Friday evening, he seemed to reserve Saturday to bust a move while sporting a
hat shaped like a boot, multiple ties and a green sports coat showing off his
bare chest.

For the official show, musicians were dressed in brands like Dickies, Australian
brand Zanerobe, Rachel Roy and Cynthia Steffe.

Outfits ranged from classic preppy and urban wear to flowing dresses and
swimsuits interspersed with vintage - all creating a musician-friendly vibe.

Stylists succeeded in mixing and matching emerging designers with better-known
brands. Local jewelry-makers Kendra Scott and Gay Isber added finishing touches
to the looks with their unique pieces.

- Courtney Sebesta

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Plenty of food (and wine) for thought

BYLINE: Addie Broyles abroyles@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1860 words


This weekend, celebrity chefs and foodies from around the country will descend
on Auditorium Shores for the first ever Austin Food & Wine Festival, which is
likely the highest-profile culinary event in Austin's history.

But let's get it out in the open: The Austin Food & Wine Festival is not the
Texas Hill Country Wine & Food Festival 2.0.

They are two distinct events, one born out of the other when Food & Wine
magazine, whose events company hosts a number of similar festivals around the
country, teamed up last year with C3 Presents and restaurateurs Tyson Cole, Tim
Love and Jesse Herman to buy the 26-year-old regional festival and turn it into
a national one.

The result is a star-studded two-day festival (two-and-a-half if you bought a
$850 VIP pass) featuring both big-name celebrities such as Andrew Zimmern, Gail
Simmons, Masaharu Morimoto, Marcus Samuelsson and Jonathan Waxman, and local
notables, including David Bull, Rene Ortiz, Bryce Gilmore, Kevin Williamson, and
Andrew Weissman and Jason Dady of San Antonio.

Organizers have made a concerted effort, especially in recent weeks, to
Austin-ize the festival, with the addition of a cookbook tent sponsored by
BookPeople and another round of Texas chefs and wine, spirit and restaurant
vendors who will offer samples in the massive tasting tents on the shores of
Lady Bird Lake.

They've played up the music angle, but you can catch Lucinda Williams and Mayer
Hawthorne only if you have a VIP badge, and Saturday night's big Rock Your Taco
Celebrity Chef Showdown is also VIP-only.

But throughout Saturday and Sunday, regular badgeholders ($250 weekender passes
are available at

austinfoodandwinefestival.com) can check out more than 30 cooking demos, panels
and classes on everything from global street food with Travel Channel host
Zimmern to stocking and tending your home bar with author Tony Abou-Ganim.

Morimoto, an international superstar in the food world, will teach two classes
on mastering the art of sushi, and in classes on both Saturday and Sunday,
Florida chef Michelle Bernstein will teach classes on tapas and spicing up
comfort foods.

Throughout all the educational sessions and tastings, it will be hard to miss
chefs who you've seen on "Top Chef Masters," including Houston's Monica Pope,
Tony Mantuano of Chicago and New York chefs Samuelsson and Waxman, who is making
his first trip to Austin for the festival.

Waxman will explore the worlds of seafood and un-junkified junk food in a pair
of classes, but he says he's really looking forward to competing against eight
other chefs in the taco showdown on Saturday night.

"The world's greatest food is tacos," Waxman said last week from his restaurant,
Barbuto, in Manhattan's West Village. "There is nothing better than tequilas and
taco. If you're depressed, what are you going to eat? Tacos. If you're in a
really good mood, what are you going to eat? Tacos."

Waxman, a trombone and flute player who is trying to get fellow chef musicians
together for a band, is also looking forward to barbecue and live music during
his stint in Austin.

"I always bite off more than I can chew," he says. "It's Charlie Jones' fault,"
shifting the blame to one of the C3 founders who entices Waxman to Austin by
texting pictures of his thriving winter garden when New York is an icebox.

That a concert promoter is also an avid gardener is a prime example of why the
food scene still enthralls Waxman all these years after he got his start with
Alice Waters at the famed Chez Panisse in Berkeley. "People surprise the hell
out of you," he says. "Their secret food desires, what they like to grow, what
they like to cook. Sport figures, rock and rollers, accountants, moms with six
kids. Everyone has such different, diverse ideas about food. That's what's so
great about food in America right now. We're discovering it and embracing it in
all these different ways."

One discovery that seems to be happening in backyards across America is
barbecue. Not just "barbecue" in the grilling-over-charcoal-or-propane sense,
but bona fide barbecue, the kind that Elizabeth Karmel has been researching and
teaching for more than a decade since she founded

GirlsAtTheGrill.com.

The North Carolina native cooks Central Texas-style barbecue in New York City as
the executive chef of Hill Country restaurant, which is modeled after Kreuz
Market in Lockhart. Karmel is in Austin and Lockhart this week, smoking briskets
at "the mother ship" for Saturday's taco showdown and finally seeing what all
the Franklin and John Mueller's hype is about.

"The perception of barbecue has changed tremendously in the past 10 years," she
says. "People are cooking way more than burgers and hot dogs or chicken with
barbecue sauce on it. It warms the cockles of my heart that people are making
ribs, brisket, pulled pork in their backyards."

She'll teach various smoking techniques during her class at Auditorium Shores on
Saturday, but she's just as excited to attend. "I was very flattered to be asked
to come, but I would have come as a guest anyway. Austin is the perfect city in
the South to host a festival like this primarily because Austin is already the
capital of live music. Food, wine and music are such a winning combination ... I
hope it gets bigger and better every year."

Contact Addie Broyles at 912-2504. Twitter: @broylesa

Masaharu Morimoto
 New York City and Napa Valley
 Twitter: @chef_morimoto
 Title: Chef/owner of more than half a dozen eponymous restaurants around the
world.
 Known for: Intimidating contenders with his quick knife skills as an Iron Chef
 on "Iron Chef" and "Iron Chef America."


Austin Food & Wine Festival
 Gates at Auditorium Shores open at 8:30 a.m. Saturday and 10:30 a.m. Sunday.
 Passes (21 and older only) cost $250 for a weekender badge and $850 for VIP,
which includes special events on Friday and Saturday nights at Republic Square
Park.
 Parking for VIP badgeholders on site at Auditorium Shores. Nearby parking
garages are available to all for a fee. Details at
austinfoodandwinefestival.com


Austin Food & Wine Festival side events
  The Austin Food & Wine Alliance, which will get a portion of the proceeds
from the Austin Food & Wine Festival, is hosting an unofficial kick-off event
Thursday night at the Salt Lick Bar-B-Que Pavilion in Driftwood. Live Fire!
starts at 6:30 p.m. and will feature a number of chefs from Austin, including
Josh Watkins, Andrew Wiseheart and Ned Elliott, Naomi Pomeroy and Adam
Sappington of Portland, Ore., and San Antonio's Jason Dady cooking over fire
pits. Tickets ($75) include food, wine, spirits and beer samples. This is the
first of a number of events that the nonprofit will host throughout the year to
 raise money in addition to what comes in from the Food & Wine festival. The
board has said that it will give away culinary grants to Central Texas food
businesses as soon as this summer. austinfoodwinealliance.org.
  Trace pastry chef Janina O'Leary studied with New York pastry chef Pichet Ong
 when she was working The Village Tart in Manhattan, and the two are reuniting
in Austin on Thursday when Ong is in town for the Austin Food & Wine Festival.
They'll host a three-course dessert and cocktail pairing at 9 p.m. at the
restaurant inside the W Hotel at 200 Lavaca St. The cost is $25 a person for
desserts only or $40 for desserts and cocktails. RSVP at (512) 542-3660.
  La Condesa chef Rene Ortiz and pastry chef Laura Sawicki, who was recently
named one of the country's best new pastry chefs by Food & Wine magazine, are
teaming with Miami chef Michelle Bernstein for a free cooking demonstration and
 book signing at Macy's Barton Creek, 2901 Loop 360 (Capital of Texas Highway),
 at 6 p.m. Thursday.
 FoodRepublic.com, a website co-founded by Chef Marcus Samuelsson that has been
 lauded for creating food and drink stories targeted to men without dumbing
down the content, is hosting a test kitchen and lounge on Friday at the W Hotel
 that will feature live interviews with chefs and musicians as well as cooking
demos throughout the day. It is open to the public on a limited first come,
first serve basis. You can find a schedule and updates at foodrepublic.com and
via @foodrepublic on Twitter.


Michelle Bernstein
 Miami
 Twitter: @chefmichy
 Title: Chef/owner of Michy's and Sra. Martinez in Miami and author of "Cuisine
 a Latina"
 Known for: Fusing Latin flavors in innovative ways, which led to her James
Beard win in 2008 as the best chef in the South.
 Andrew Zimmern
 Minneapolis-St. Paul
 Twitter: @andrewzimmern
 Title: Host of "Bizarre Foods"
 Known for: Taking TV viewers on a tour of the world's strangest eats while
tackling domestic issues such as food safety and public health in his columns
in Minneapolis-St. Paul and Delta Sky magazines.
 Tony Abou-Ganim
 Las Vegas
 Twitter: @mdrnmixologist
 Title: National Ambassador of the U.S. Bartenders Guild, creator of
themodernmixologist.com
 Known for: Teaching Americans how to bring the craft cocktail movement into
their homes through television appearances and his book, "The Modern
Mixologist."
 Mark Oldman
 New York City
 Twitter: @markoldman
 Title: Wine columnist for Food Network, author of "Oldman's Brave New World of
 Wine" and "Oldman's Guide to Outsmarting Wine"
 Known for: Being the lead judge on the PBS television series "The Winemakers"
and twice winning the Georges Duboeuf award for Best Wine Book of the Year.
 Marcus Samuelsson
 New York City
 Twitter: @MarcusCooks
 Title: Chef/owner of Red Rooster Harlem, co-founder of the site
foodrepublic.com
 Known for: Winning the second season of "Top Chef Masters," turning to his
Ethiopian and Swedish roots to write three successful cookbooks, "New American
Table," "The Soul of a New Cuisine" and "Aquavit and the New Scandinavian
Cuisine."
 Masaharu Morimoto
 New York City
 Twitter: @chef_morimoto
 Title: Chef/owner of more than half a dozen eponymous restaurants around the
world.
 Known for: Intimidating contenders with his quick knife skills as an Iron Chef
 on "Iron Chef" and "Iron Chef America."
 Gail Simmons
 New York City
 Twitter: @gailsimmons
 Title: "Top Chef" judge, host of "Top Chef: Just Desserts," special projects
director with Food & Wine magazine
 Known for: Turning her love of food into a full-time job as "a professional
eater," which she chronicles in her memoir, "Talking With My Mouth Full."
 Tim Love
 Fort Worth
 Twitter: @cheftimlove
 Title: Chef/owner of The Lonesome Dove Western Bistro and The Love Shack,
founding partner in the Austin Food & Wine Festival
 Known for: Being the official chef of the Austin City Limits Music Festival
and creating what the Fort Worth Star-Telegram has called the "most perfect
burger on the planet."
 Tony Mantuano
 Chicago
 Twitter: @TonyMantuano
 Title: Chef/owner of Spiaggia
 Known for: Hosting Barack Obama's presidential election victory dinner in
2008, winning the 2005 James Beard award for Best Chef: Midwest, making a
splash on the second season of "Top Chef Masters."
 Christina Tosi
 New York City
 Twitter: @momomilkbar
 Title: Pastry chef/co-owner of Momofuku Milk Bar, author of "Momofuku Milk Bar
 Cookbook"
 Known for: Sweetening meals throughout David Chang's restaurant empire,
elevating cereal milk to haute cuisine.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 2770 words


Billy (Bill) Joe Parks

April 24, 1933 - May 31, 2012

On Thursday, May 31, 2012, Billy Joe Parks stepped from his earthly life to his
eternal heavenly home with our Lord. Bill was born to Maude and Joe Parks in
their farm house in rural North Mississippi. Bill, his younger brother Jimmy
Lee, and parents later moved to Hattiesburg, Mississippi where he attended
school and graduated from Hattiesburg High School in 1951.

Following graduation from high school, Bill enlisted in the U.S. Air Force.
After basic training at Lackland AFB and administrative training in Tennessee,
he departed in December 1951 for a three-year assignment in Germany with the
36th Fighter-Bomber Wing, attaining the rank of Staff Sergeant. He returned to
Maxwell AFB in Alabama to complete his service.

After his honorable discharge from the service, Bill enrolled at Mississippi
Southern College (now University of Southern Mississippi) where he pursued a
double major in journalism and accounting. He earned his bachelor's degree, with
honors, in less than three years. During his college years Bill met and married
Adelaide Lancaster. This marriage was blessed with sons Joseph Lancaster Parks
and Andrew Franklin Parks. Adelaide passed away in 1974, and Andrew in 1980.
Bill was married to Vealta Padgett from 1974 to 1984, during which time he
gained stepson William Thomas Padgett, whom he cherished dearly and considered
his own.

Bill was employed by Humble Oil & Refining Company (now ExxonMobil) for over 28
years. He began his career in September 1958 as a staff accountant at Humble's
Baytown Refinery and, following a number of assignments, advanced through the
ranks. Bill retired from Exxon in August 1986 as Controller of Exxon Production
Research Company in Houston.

In June 1986, Bill took Earline Bush to be his wife. Earline brought sons Staten
and David to this marriage, whom Bill grew to love and care for as his own.

An avid writer and published author, Bill never met a stranger nor was he ever
at a loss for words. Foremost in his life, Bill was a Christian, a father and a
husband. No one ever doubted where he stood on an issue, and no one ever left
his presence without a joke told or a happy memory. He touched many lives with
his Christian values, his writings, his quick wit and his fun-loving spirit.

Left to mourn his passing are his wife Earline; son Joseph Parks with wife
Nicole and daughter Kendall; stepson William Padgett with wife Kelly and
children Jordan and Wade; stepson Staten Bush; stepson David Bush with wife Dawn
and children Krystle, Taylor, Lane and Jacob.

A memorial service will be conducted at Zion Lutheran Church in Walburg at 10:00
a.m., June 18. Officiating with be Pastors John Davenport and Jim Craver. In
lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to Zion Lutheran Church or to a
charity of choice.

Charles Stanley Briggs

Charles Stanley Briggs was born in Plaquemine, La. on Nov 4th, 1920, the last
child of five to Edith Dozier Briggs and Louis Wilburn Briggs. Stan was a kind
and generous soul his entire life and was loved by many. One of the favorite
memories of his childhood was traveling with his beloved father every week on
Wednesdays on his father's rounds as a salesman so he could spend quality time
with him.

As a young man Stan moved to Austin to attend U.T. He was drafted and served 3
and 1/12 years in the Army Air Corps in the Asian Pacific Theater. Afterwards he
returned to Austin and finished at UT earning a Bachelors degree from the school
of Business Administration. He was employed by Heep Oil Corporation for 44 years
as an accountant.

In 1956 Stan was lucky enough to meet the love of his life, Pat while she was a
young nursing student caring for one of Stan's friends. Through charm,
determination and persistence, he convinced her to go out with him on a date.
They married May 10th, 1958 and the rest is history!

They welcomed a daughter, Cindy in 1959 followed by another daughter, Becky in
1961. Stan was a warm and loving father who taught by example the power of love
through service and devotion to his family. Stan joined Pat in caring for Cindy
at home through her illness until her death in 1969.

Stan and Pat attended St. Theresa's Catholic church where Stan was an active
member of the Knights of Columbus as well as being a lector during Sunday
services for many years. He was also a member of St. Vincent de Paul Society.

Stan enjoyed many outdoor activites including being the boat captain on lake
Austin and on lake Travis. He pulled numerous family members and friends on skis
throughout the years and enjoyed years of entertaining at the lake house on lake
Travis. While employed at Heep he would go dove, quail and deer hunting
regularly.

In 1995 Stan and Pat welcomed a grandson, Ben and in 1997 a granddaughter,
Katie. They were truly the joys of his life. Stan could be seen regularly at all
of the grandkid's activities throughout their childhood including school
activiites, plays, sporting events, etc. He was most definitely a hands on
grandpa and was adored by his grandchildren and their friends. In July 2011 Ben
preceded Stan in death.

Stan attended many programs in the last few years including: Circle of Friends,
The Gathering, and Elderhaven. If desired, contributions in honor of Stan may be
made to these organizations in recognition of their wonderful care and love. He
is survived by his adoring wife, Pat Briggs, daughter Becky Yatsu and
granddaughter Katie Yatsu as well as many nieces, nephews and cousins.

Ann Parsons Buratti

Ann Parsons Buratti, 86 of Austin TX, passed away peacefully on the afternoon of
June 13, 2012 at Parmer Woods. She was born November 2, 1925 in Florence Texas
to Edward Parsons and Dolly Davis Parsons. The last of their four children, she
grew up on a farm in Andice, Texas. She graduated from Florence High School,
followed by two years Business College in Austin. While working for the Internal
Revenue Service in Austin, Texas, she met the love of her life, Chester Cherico
Buratti and they married April 2, 1946. They were married forty three years when
Chester died April 16, 1989.

Sisters Lottie Mae Hunt, Leta Rae Box and brother, Edward Parsons, Jr.
predeceased her.

She is survived by children Kay Buratti Broline and husband, Dr. Les Broline;
Richard M. Buratti and wife, Eline; Miss Barbara Gail Buratti; Suzanne Buratti
Benjamin and husband, Bob.

Also are her Grandchildren: Amy Broline Sims and husband Jonathan Sims; Dr.
Shelly Broline Sitton and husband, Thomas Sitton; Richard Buratti, Jr. and wife,
Emily; Angela Michelle Buratti.

Her Great grandchildren are: Preston Daniel, Abigail Ann and Hallie Grace Sims;
William Thomas Sitton; Nicholas David and Elizabeth Rebecca Buratti.

Ann was a member of Tarrytown United Methodist Church. She recalled that as a
young girl, she was baptized in the San Gabriel River.

Ann loved singing, dancing, playing golf and being with her family and friends.
Ann began playing golf in the 50's. She and Chester enjoyed playing in
tournaments and sixsomes. She won numerous tournaments including the Stacy
Elliott and the 1969 WGA Woman's Partnership. In 2009 she was honored by WGA for
her long- time membership of the Austin Country Club WGA and was made an
Honorary Lifetime Member of WGA. Always a sweet and beautiful lady, she was calm
and steady. Her golfing friends would say she was cool, and always in the game.
Many years were enjoyed with the Singing Notables Harmony group and she could be
found enjoying herself on the dance floor on many occasions.

She was a kind and devoted mother to her four children and continued to care for
sweet Barb into her eighties; her adoring grandchildren called her "sweet
Mamaw".

Visitation with the family will be held Sunday, June 17 from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m.,
at Weed-Corley-Fish, 3125 N. Lamar Blvd. Funeral services will be held Monday,
June 18, at 11:00 a.m. at Weed-Corley-Fish Chapel, officiated by Rev. Ann Beaty.
A private graveside service will follow.

Memorial contributions may be made to Hospice Austin or Tarrytown United
Methodist Church.

The family would like to thank the wonderful caregivers of Parmer Woods, the
Hospice Team, Dr. Mary Maxwell and Olivia Donelson.

Obituary and memorial guestbook available online at www.wcfish.com

Valla Hough Chapman

Valla Hough Chapman, 100, of Austin, Texas, passed away in Abilene, Texas, on
June 12, 2012. Visitation will be at The Hamil Funeral Home, 6449 Buffalo Gap
Road, in Abilene, Friday, June 15, 2012, 5:30 to 7:00. Graveside services will
be held in Austin at 11:00 AM Monday, June 18, 2012, at Austin Memorial Park
Cemetery with Terrell Hough and Ira Akers officiating.

"Grannie" was born February 2, 1912. Her parents were John T. Hough, Sr. and
Melissa Octavia "Birdie" Hough. She lived in Austin until 1998 when she moved to
Abilene to be near her daughter and family. She was married to Eugene Matthews
and later to Walter Chapman, both of Austin. She was preceded in death by her
parents; husband, Walter; son-in-law, G. V. Reedy, Jr.; step-son, Carroll
Chapman; four brothers, Wesley, J.T., Vernon, and Arthur Lee Hough; and sister,
Marguerite Lemens. She is survived by her daughter, Birdie Matthews Reedy, of
Abilene; grandson, Randall Reedy and wife Resa; granddaughter, Karen Reedy
Johnson and husband David; her great grandchildren, Kristina Akers and husband
Ira; Greg Johnson; Melanie Johnson; R.J. Reedy, all of Abilene; Kara Birge and
husband George, of Austin; and her greatest blessing of all, her
great-great-granddaughter, Ellie Akers, of Abilene; and her stepson, Wayland
Chapman and wife Carmella of Kyle.

The family wishes to extend sincere thanks to the caregivers of Windcrest
Healthcare Center in Abilene and the personnel of IntegraCare Hospice of
Abilene. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be given to Hendrick Home for
Children at 2758 Jeanette Street, Abilene, Texas, 79602.

The guestbook may be signed and condolences submitted online at:
www.HamilFamilyFuneralHome.com.

Bradley Jefferson Ellis

Bradley Jefferson Ellis was born on September 5, 1981 in Austin, Texas. Brad was
called Home by our Heavenly Father on Monday, June 11, 2012.

Brad graduated from Lake Travis High School in 2000 and from the University of
Texas at Austin with a Bachelor of Business Administration and a Master of
Professional Accounting in 2005. Brad was employed by Ryan LLC, a professional
global tax services firm, as a senior consultant.

Brad is survived by his parents Jeff and Cynthia Ellis of Lakeway; his brother
Blane Ellis and wife Kendall of San Antonio; sister Brooke Ellis of Austin;
grandparents Howard and Maureen Ellis, Nora Dudley, and Rnell Chapman; numerous
loving aunts, uncles, and cousins; and many wonderful friends and co-workers.

Brad was preceded in death by his grandfather, Branch W. Chapman and aunt,
Brenda Horton.

Brad was an avid sportsman and loved the outdoors. He had a particular love for
bow hunting. He spent many happy weekends with family and friends at deer leases
and ranches across Texas. He was also a sports enthusiast and loved his Texas
Longhorns. Brad had a passion for excellent health and fitness and inspired
others with his healthy lifestyle. He was an excellent cook and was particularly
proud of his grilling skills, often texting pictures of his culinary
accomplishments to friends and family. Brad attended Lake Hills Church in
Austin.

Brad was extremely close to his family, friends, and co-workers. He was
professional, detailed and always had a plan of action. Brad was compassionate,
gentle natured, sweet spirited, and a driven competitor. Many friends have
shared they are better people for having Brad in their lives. Brad's contagious
smile and infectious laugh will be special memories forever.

Brad's family will host a visitation on Sunday, June 17, 2012 from 5:00 to 7:00
PM at Weed-Corley-Fish Lake Travis Funeral Home, 411 RR 620 South, Lakeway, TX
78734.

A celebration of Brad's life will be held at 2:00 PM on Monday, June 18, 2012 at
Lake Hills Church, 11521 Bee Caves Road, Austin, TX 78738.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made in Brad's honor to any of
the following organizations: Patriots and Heroes Outdoors, P.O Drawer 1663, El
Campo, TX 77437, Arms of Hope, Boles Children's Home, 21300 Hwy 16 N., Medina,
TX 78055, Brad Ellis Memorial Athletic Scholarship Fund, Lake Travis High
School, 3324 Ranch Road 620 South, Austin, TX 78738, or to Texas Organ Sharing
Alliance, 8122 Datapoint Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229. Please write Brad Ellis
Memorial in the memo line of any contribution.

Obituary and memorial guest-book available online at www.wcfish.com

Irene Balcar Goyne

Irene Balcar Goyne passed away Thursday, June 14, 2012 at St. David's Hospital
after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Irene was born October 7, 1939,
in Sheldon, Texas to Joseph and Mary (Tepera )Balcar. Irene graduated high
school in Hearne, Texas. She had worked twenty-two years with the state of Texas
as a medical insurance administrator and an ambulance claims examiner. Irene was
an avid book reader, a devoted wife, sister, friend, and most of all a loving
grandmother.

Irene was preceded in death by her parents; Joseph and Mary Balcar, brothers;
Adolf Balcar and Aemil Balcar, sisters; Marian Walzel and Lillian Minard. She is
survived by her husband Rusty Goyne of Lytton Springs, Texas , daughter ; Patty
Milligan and her husband George of Austin, Texas, son; Andy Russell of Austin,
Texas, sister; Lorene Taylor of Austin ,brother; John Balcar of Corpus Christi,
Texas, sister-in-law; Cassie Reed and her husband David and niece Meredith
Carlson all of Austin, grandchildren; Megan Russell, Candace Russell, Kelsey
Schroeder, and George Milligan IV. of Austin, Texas and numerous nieces,
nephews, and other family members. Irene loved her family and will be missed by
everyone that knew her. A visitation will be held, Saturday, June 16th from 4:00
to 6:00 p.m. at Eeds Funeral Home, 408 South Main Street, Lockhart, Texas.
Funeral services will be held 10:00 a.m., Monday, June 18th with the Reverend
Ron Scott officiating. Serving as the pallbearers will be: Larry Garcia, Andy
Russell, George Milligan, George Milligan IV., David Reed, and Mark Damen.
Burial will follow at Lockhart City Cemetery. The family requests in lieu of
flowers donations can be made to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation.

Mother,

Even though God has chosen for you to leave us today on your next journey, we
remember your loving touch and how you helped us to grow with love, truth , and
honesty . We remember how you guided us through our youth to choose the right
paths, values, and morals and to always remember our self-worth. Even though you
may be gone from this earth, we have wonderful, loving memories of our time
spent together. We know God has chosen you to be a guardian angel to watch over
us. We love you and will miss you. Love Patty and Andy

All arrangements with Eeds Funeral Home, 408 South Main Street, Lockhart, Texas
78644.

Robert H. Guentherman, Jr.

Robert H. Guentherman, Jr., 49, was born August 18, 1962 in Dallas, TX, to
Karolyn K. and Dr. Robert H. Guentherman, Sr., and found God's peace and rest on
May 16, 2012 in Austin, TX, after a brief illness.

Robert graduated from Lake Highlands High School in Dallas. He also attended
Biola University, Southern Methodist University, and the University of Texas at
Austin.

Robert worked at the Internal Revenue Service for 26 1/2 years. He sang in the
Austin Lyric Opera Chorus, and the Capital City Men's Chorus. He was a member of
the Metropolitan Community Church in Austin.

He was preceded in death by his father, Dr. Robert H. Guentherman, Sr.

He is survived by his beloved partner of 26 years Michael Lucus. He is also
survived by his mother Karolyn; his sisters Sharon Nelms and Susan Swanner; his
brother Mike Guentherman; aunts, nephews, nieces, cousins, and friends.

Services will be 2:00 p.m., Saturday June 16, 2012, at the Metropolitan
Community Church (MCCA), 8601 South First Street, Austin, TX, 78745.

Robert was a colorful, larger- than-life person, and his favorite color was red.
In honor of Robert, if you feel comfortable doing so, please consider wearing
red to his service.

The family would like to extend a special thank you to the excellent doctors and
nurses of St. David's South ICURV for their tender and loving care.

Memorial contributions may be made in Robert's name to the MCCA Building Fund at
the address above, or to his family's church, Scofield Memorial Church, 7730
Abrams Road, Dallas, TX, 75231.

To share memories of Robert with his family, please visit
www.cookwaldenforestoaks.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 23, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Official digging into drilling rules

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 1476 words


No sooner had he taken office in 2011 as a member of the Railroad Commission of
Texas than Republican David Porter was almost out of a job.

Lawmakers were seriously considering a proposal that would whittle the
three-member commission of elected officials down to one, appointed by the
governor. So the first order of business for Porter, a surprise winner, was to
camp out at the Capitol to keep his job.

"They were trying to abolish my position just as I got to office," he said
recently, two years after having survived the Sunset Advisory Commission's
foiled purge. Now, Porter is the senior member of a Railroad Commission suddenly
very relevant as the natural gas shale boom continues.

Famously misnamed, the commission now has nothing to do with trains or rails; it
regulates drilling.

And there's a lot of that in the Eagle Ford shale in the wake of the innovation
of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which water, sand and chemicals are
injected into rock to extract natural gas. According to the Railroad Commission,
drilling permits have jumped from just 26 in 2008 to 2,957 through the first
eight months of 2012.

At the center of much of the action is Porter, who built a 24-member Eagle Ford
Task Force last year to review issues involving flaring, gas pipeline
infrastructure and road conditions in rural Texas counties.

Environmentalists remain highly skeptical of fracking, the drilling practice
that has made this gas boom possible. On Thursday, Environment Texas released a
report documenting the hundreds of millions of dollars in costs associated with
shale exploration, starting with water infrastructure needs and looking ahead to
long-term well problems.

Although Porter deeply believes in the promise of fracking, the task force is
meant to take seriously the sorts of complaints related to drilling that the
Railroad Commission has historically side-stepped.

Before the development of the Eagle Ford shale field, the railroad commissioners
came in for criticism that they had been largely absent from hearings and
disputes involving the Barnett shale field around Fort Worth.

Now, as a consequence of hearings involving Porter's Eagle Ford Task Force, the
Railroad Commission is considering changes to its rules that would improve the
recycling of water used in drilling operations and toughen the casing around
drilling wells at shale plays across the state. Porter has favored stricter
review of commercial disposal wells, those in which companies essentially bury
byproducts of industrial processes.

Porter, in other words, has begun making his mark, suggesting in an interview a
willingness to change things up at the Railroad Commission, starting with its
name.

"I hate to change something that has 120 years of history, but after the
thousandth time I've been asked about the train in front of someone's driveway,
I'm starting to think it ought to be called the Texas Energy Commission," he
joked from his 11th-floor corner office in the William B. Travis State Office
Building, with a view of the Capitol only a few blocks away.

Some critics hold that the powers-that-be have long resisted a name change
because it would bring greater scrutiny to the commission's workings.

And, more than anything else, he stands out as a pol for his earnestness,
determined to wade into the muck of oil and gas regulation.

Most people end up on the Railroad Commission initially as a gubernatorial
appointee after a commissioner leaves.

Porter won a dark horse victory during the 2010 Republican primary, ousting the
incumbent commission chairman, Victor Carrillo , who had been favored by Gov.
Rick Perry and the Republican establishment.

"People underestimated how well (Porter) knew the Republican primary, how he
knew those people, how he had been to those conventions, how he knew those
delegates," said his friend Barry Williamson, an Austin attorney and former
railroad commissioner from Midland. "He wasn't a neophyte."

Porter, a self-described Reagan Republican, grew up in the Pacific Northwest as
a leaflet-distributing conservative. After moving to Midland in the early 1980s
to begin his accounting career, he began befriending future politicians,
including George W. Bush, at the Republican clubs. He was named a delegate to
various Republican conventions and won a seat on a local hospital district .
Nothing much, but the political activity was consistent.

Commissioners have long treated the Railroad Commission as a warm-up for higher
elected office.

As his initial colleagues, Michael Williams and Elizabeth Ames Jones, prepared
for election runs , Porter appeared overshadowed and, perhaps, was overlooked.
He was shrugged off as a know-nothing from Midland who had few allies at the
Capitol.

Once they left, Porter found himself subordinate to Chairman Barry Smitherman ,
a former banker and prosecutor and an ally of the governor.

If Smitherman, with his corporate history, is something of a peacock, Porter -
deliberate, quiet - is a turtle.

"He's been the odd man out, to some extent," Williamson said. "He's very
steady-as-she-goes."

At first glance, the mild accountant, shy of the press, seems distinctly
unspecial.

His politics appear standard-issue: He describes "major philosophical
differences" with President Barack Obama's Environmental Protection Agency,
delivering the sort of red-meat criticisms about the president that put him in
lock step with the chairman of the state environmental agency, the attorney
general and, of course, the governor.

In short, this 56-year-old has ascended to the very establishment that a couple
of years ago gave him a cold shoulder. In the recent Republican race for
senator, he endorsed Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst over tea party favorite Ted Cruz.

Soon, Porter will enjoy new-found clout: He is soon to be joined, barring a
highly unlikely upset by the Democratic candidate, on the three-member
commission by Christi Craddick , the daughter of his old Midland pal Tom
Craddick, the former speaker of the Texas House. Porter endorsed Christi
Craddick's candidacy in a tight 2012 primary race for the commission seat
against Panhandle lawmaker state Rep. Warren Chisum , R-Pampa.

As Porter prepares to run again in 2014, the integrity of his insider-outsider
dynamic will be tested, especially on matters relating to the Eagle Ford shale.

The Railroad Commission long has been closely aligned with the interests of big
energy companies. Those companies, after all, are the major contributors to
their political campaigns.

In its 2010 report, the Sunset Advisory Commission staff found that "an elected
body raises potential questions of conflicts between the Commission as a
regulatory agency and the oil and gas industry it regulates."

Porter has raised $849,4123 since 2010, nearly all of it coming after he won
that year's primary.

After the primary, the share of his campaign cash that came from the oil and gas
industry shot from 32 to 59 percent, according to an analysis by Texans for
Public Justice, a nonprofit that tracks money in politics.

In the 2012 election cycle, Smitherman, chairman of the commission, raised 39
percent of his $3.4 million in campaign cash from the oil and gas industry, the
nonprofit group found. Craddick got 45 percent of her $1.9 million from the oil
and gas industry.

On big topics, Porter's views echo those of the gas industry: Hydraulic
fracturing has had no proven link to groundwater contamination. Global warming
is hot air. Fracking won't deplete water resources in any significant way.

Still something of an outsider, Porter, who visits a ranch he owns near Giddings
about once a month and spends most of his time living in Austin, gets far less
money than his compatriots.

The possible rule changes derived from Porter's task force are a "move in the
right direction, but they don't do a whole lot," said Luke Metzger , executive
director of Environment Texas.

"I'm not sure his championing these issues has yet led to any improvements."

Still, government watchdog Tom "Smitty" Smith , head of the Texas office of
Public Citizen, goes so far as calling him "progressivist."

"He's not part of the ruling cabal up there," Smith said, referring to the
commission's tendency to side with big energy companies. "He's always been an
outsider with a libertarian bent, and there's a progressivist side to that. He
believes in 'small d' democracy."

"The commission seems to have an innate willingness to duck problems" like those
dogging shale development, Smith said. "It's not so much that he's fearless as
that he thinks, 'Let's get ahead of a problem.'"

Contact Asher Price

at 445-3643

DAVID PORTER, TEXAS RAILROAD COMMISSIONER
 Born: Fort Lewis, Wash.,  in 1956.
 Education: Graduated magna cum laude from Harding University in 1977 with a
bachelor's degree in accounting. Became a Texas CPA in September 1981.
 Family: Married wife, Cheryl, in 1979. They have one daughter.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 7, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Employers only hiring the perfect applicant?

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1060 words


Cathleen Anderson spent the past 15 years connecting workers with employers, and
over that time she learned one immutable truth about the Austin high-tech scene
- the clamor about a talent shortage might rise and fall, but it never really
ends.

As the Austin managing partner of PrincetonOne, a global recruitment services
firm, Anderson has seen firsthand how local demand for technology skills has
soared in recent years. Her business has doubled this year, she said.

This time around, though, Anderson has also noticed a paradoxical element in the
call for more high-tech talent. The same companies that are struggling to fill
open positions have become much more finicky about the people they'll hire.

During the tech-boom days of seemingly limitless growth, companies would hire
just about anyone who could fog a mirror. Today, with political and economic
uncertainty clouding growth projections, even the talent-starved employers are
holding off for the near-perfect applicant.

In many cases, Anderson said, the search for perfect has become an increasingly
powerful enemy of the good. A growing number of Central Texas employers have
sharply narrowed their job-search criteria, heightened requirements for
applicants and balked at the salaries they need to pay to attract the level of
worker they want, Anderson said.

"Companies are investing in talent," she said, "but they're not necessarily
ready to pay what it costs to land talent yet."

Austin has plenty of high-tech jobs, of course. The number of area residents in
information technology occupations alone has grown almost 11 percent since 2009,
more than double the national rate for those types of jobs, according to an
analysis by Economic Modeling Specialists International.

All told, the Austin IT sector has an estimated 2.2 open jobs for each graduate
of local IT-education programs last year, according to a report published last
week by the Idaho-based economic analysis firm.

"That's pretty serious growth, and they were even growing during the recession,"
said Josh Wright, who blogged about the report for Economic Modeling Specialists
International.

All told, he said, the Austin metro area has about 47,000 workers in 11
information technology professions. That would amount to 5.7 percent of the
region's total working population in August, as counted by the Texas Workforce
Commission.

"It's not just Austin, but Houston, San Antonio and Dallas are doing really
well, too," Wright said. "The demand is outstripping the supply, and these IT
occupations growing."

Given such high demand for technology skills, it would be nice to dismiss
employers' more-selective approach to hiring as the temporary quirk of a slowly
recovering economy. But in the increasingly cutthroat market for high-tech jobs,
this dynamic could have some real staying power, even in a strong economy.

Consider, for example, the mismatch between what companies say they want and
what they actually require from applicants. Last week, at the latest installment
of the University of Texas' Enterprise Speaker Series, an audience member asked
executives on the panel to outline the skills today's graduates most need to
navigate the workplace.

One executive noted that engineering and business analytical skills will be
critical. Beyond that, though, the advice turned decidedly less technical. The
executives touted strong leadership, collaboration and problem-solving skills.
They wanted self-starters who can figure things out on their own. Attitude, one
said, is everything.

To hear that, it would appear a motivated applicant with a good, if not perfect,
set of skills would likely land a job. That's not always happening, in large
part because these executives aren't on the front lines of hiring, said Peter
Cappelli, a University of Pennsylvania management professor and author of "Why
Good People Can't Get Jobs."

The hiring managers and human resources personnel who cull through the
applications, conduct interviews and choose to hire - or not hire - usually have
a different set of criteria in mind. Furthermore, Cappelli noted, fewer
outside-the-box applicants even get in for interviews because automated job
listings and searches collect an increasingly narrow set of applicants with an
increasingly narrow set of skills.

In many cases, he said, companies have tightened their search so much, even
their own employees wouldn't qualify anymore.

"The people complaining the loudest about this are technology companies, where
they're relying on universities to deliver the supply of talent they want each
year," Cappelli said in an interview in June. "They could train people or get
closer to the schools, but it's crazy to have arms-length relationships and
expect the market to throw out the talent you need when you need it ...
especially when what you need is so technical and highly specific."

On the flip side, it has become increasingly incumbent upon workers,
particularly in high-tech jobs, to continuously upgrade their own skills -
whether within the workplace or through outside means. With the pace of
high-tech's evolution only accelerating, a worker's skills can go from
cutting-edge to obsolete in a matter of years.

Careers, on the other hand, last decades. Both workers and employers - in
partnership with educators - face an increasingly fluid labor market. They need
a new infrastructure, and a new mind-set, that matches the fluidity of the labor
market not with increasingly rigid hiring requirements, but innovative hiring
practices that find innovative workers.

Despite its need for more skilled workers, Austin's high-tech labor market
remains stuck in a dip, said Anderson, the recruiting consultant. Rather than
looking at a wider band of qualified job candidates to alleviate the talent
shortage, she said, local companies have constrained themselves by tightening
their searches.

"During the tech boom, companies were asking me to just get them a warm body,"
said Anderson, the recruitment specialist. "This time around, they're much more
conservative and much more demanding.

"They want two workers in one," she said, "like an accountant who has gone
through a system upgrade and has the technical expertise to handle both
functions - for the compensation of one worker, of course."

Dan Zehr covers economics and finance for the American-Statesman. Contact him at
dzehr@statesman.com or 445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
