
                               1 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Watchdog: Some texts get climate change wrong

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 668 words


Several textbooks up for approval by the State Board of Education offer false
scientific information, according to an education watchdog group.

Echoing previous battles about evolution and creationism, the group, Texas
Freedom Network, says some of the textbooks cast doubt on the role humans are
playing in a changing climate.

A McGraw-Hill geography book, for example, says that while scientists agree that
Earth's climate is changing, they disagree on the cause.

"Is it just another natural warming cycle like so many cycles that have occurred
in the past?" reads the text. "Scientists who support this position cite
thousands of years' worth of natural climatic change as evidence. Or is climate
change anthropogenic - caused by human activity? Scientists who support this
position cite the warming effect of rapidly increasing amounts of greenhouse
gases in the atmosphere. Greenhouse gases occur naturally, but they also result
from the burning of fossil fuels. Which side's evidence is more convincing?"

The book then provides excerpts, of equal length, to an article titled "Global
Warming: Not a Crisis" by the Heartland Institute, which gets money from energy
corporations, and another from a watershed 2007 report marshaled by the United
Nations that included contributions from more than 1,000 scientists that draws a
link between human activity and climate change.

"The entire section is misleading," because it offers a false equivalence to the
two sources, said Minda Berbeco, of the National Center for Science Education,
which collaborated with Texas Freedom Network on the textbook review.

The California nonprofit wasn't paid for the work.

An elementary school social studies textbook by Pearson makes a similar point:
"Some scientists believe that this carbon dioxide could lead to a slow heating
of Earth's overall climate. This temperature change is known as global warming
or climate change. Scientists disagree about what is causing climate change."

Many of the social studies books didn't address climate change and "many that
did were just fine," Berbeco said. "There were a couple, though, that seemed to
fundamentally not understand the science. They made pretty common errors that
reflect misconceptions that exist in the general public. There really isn't an
excuse for throwing bad science into the mix.

"The science is extraordinarily important for informing us about policy," she
said, touching on why social studies books might include passages about climate
change. "Though the policies addressing the issue can be very controversial, the
science is very clear and straightforward."

State leaders - including the governor, attorney general and the head of the
state environmental agency - have rejected the opinion of scientists that
climate change is partly caused by human activity.

McGraw-Hill spokesman Brian Belardi said the textbook stems "from the alignment
of our products with Texas educational standards. As Texas Freedom Network has
expressed views on education that run contrary to these standards, it is
understandable that these critiques extend to our programs."

Such controversies have burbled up before at the education board, which sets
K-12 curriculum standards, most recently over whether evolution and creationism
ought to be given equal credence in school textbooks. In 2001, the state board
rejected an Advanced Placement environmental science textbook after the
publisher refused to amend its coverage of global warming. And in 2002,
publishers agreed to change references to formations of Earth's landscapes and
the genesis of fossil fuels from "millions of years ago" to "in the distant
past" to not cross the creationist wing of the education board.

"This is another example of how politics have corrupted writing of textbooks in
this state," said Dan Quinn, a spokesman for the Texas Freedom Network.
"Politics rather than scholarship and real facts are running the show at the
State Board of Education."

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Groups still pushing for changes to Texas social studies textbooks

BYLINE: Kiah Collier American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 783 words


A week before the State Board of Education is set to adopt new social studies
textbooks for Texas public schools for the first time in a dozen years, groups
that have taken issue with the books' content still are calling on some
publishers to make revisions.

Academics and environmental education groups reiterated an argument Wednesday
that elementary and intermediate school social studies textbooks by
mega-publishers McGraw-Hill and Pearson contain "inaccurate and misleading
information about climate change" and the role humans have played in it. They
also warned that adopting the texts as they are now could have national
implications because Texas - as one of the country's most populous states with
one of the largest textbook markets - has a major influence on the textbooks
that end up in schools in many other states.

The 15-member elected education board will adopt social studies textbooks for
all grades on Nov. 21, along with hundreds of other instructional materials
covering other subject areas, including online tools. The books will be used for
at least a half-dozen years, if not longer, and will appear in classrooms
starting next fall. The public will have another chance to comment on the
textbooks Tuesday before the education board takes its final vote later in the
week.

Districts can buy whatever instructional materials they want, but most purchase
the textbooks the education board vets to ensure they meet state standards.

Two of the four publishers that the left-leaning education watchdog group Texas
Freedom Network targeted in September over climate change-related issues in
their textbooks have since made sufficient changes, a spokesman for the group
said. However, the other two - McGraw-Hill and Pearson - have not, Texas Freedom
Network President Kathy Miller said Wednesday, contending that the companies are
unwilling to do so because they are trying to increase their odds of gaining
approval from an education board that used to be dominated by staunchly
conservative Republicans.

"For too long now, politics has dominated what students in Texas learn about
critical issues like climate change," Miller said. "Parents must insist that our
students get textbooks based on the recommendations of scholars and other
experts rather than on the demands of politicians who pressure publishers into
distorting research and facts."

Texas Tech University climate scientist Katharine Hayhoe said the controversy
over climate change "lies in the politics, not in the science."

McGraw-Hill declined comment. In a statement, Pearson said that it "values input
from the public regarding instructional materials developed with Texas educators
to support student learning and academic growth."

"Pearson submitted the latest round of modifications to the Texas Education
Agency on Friday, Nov. 7, for board review and consideration and we look forward
to the board meeting next week," the statement said.

The education board asked publishers to respond to errors in the textbooks last
month after a September hearing at which many academics highlighted problems
ranging from climate change denial to inaccurate descriptions of world religions
and outdated racial terminology.

Publishers originally were given a Nov. 7 deadline, but that was scrapped after
the board "received a high volume of public comments at the last moment," TEA
spokeswoman Debbie Ratcliffe said.

Publishers will have a chance to make changes even after the education board's
final vote next week, she said.

"They'll be adopting the books with the agreement that identified errors will be
corrected," Ratcliffe said.

She said it is up to the education board, which is charged with setting the
state's curriculum standards, to determine whether something "is really a
mistake or an opinion."

As far as what changes the groups are pushing for, Josh Rosenau, the programs
and policy director for the nonprofit National Center for Science Education,
said Wednesday the most "egregious" example was an exercise in the McGraw-Hill
social studies textbook for sixth-graders that asks students to compare an
argument for human involvement in climate change from the Nobel Prize-winning
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change with one against it by the
Chicago-based Heartland Institute, a conservative and libertarian think tank.
The science education center reviewed the social studies textbooks for the Texas
Freedom Network.

"They pit that incredibly credible source against an excerpt from a political
pamphlet," he said. "There is no reason, in a social studies textbook, to be
having a debate about the science of whether climate change is caused by
humans."

Contact Kiah Collier

at 512-445-1712.

Twitter: @KiahCollier

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 7, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Scientists warn of more drought ahead for Texas

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 753 words


The dire Texas drought conditions of 2011 were a preview of future climate
conditions in the region, according to a study on climate change released
Tuesday by the White House.

At least 90 days that summer, Austin endured triple-digit temperatures. Rates of
water loss due to evaporation in parts of the southern Great Plains were double
the historic average.

More of those sorts of conditions are likely, according to scientists involved
in the National Climate Assessment, part of an Obama administration initiative
to address global warming - an initiative greeted by leading Texas policymakers
with skepticism.

The authors of the Texas portion of the report conclude that the magnitude of
expected changes, due in part to the release of heat-trapping greenhouse gases
into the atmosphere, will exceed those sustained in the past hundred-odd years.

"Existing adaptation and planning efforts are inadequate to respond to these
projected impacts," write the authors, who include University of Texas research
scientist Bridget Scanlon. She heads the Sustainable Water Resources Program at
the university's Bureau of Economic Geology.

But in Texas, top policymakers - who have framed the debate as one of greenhouse
gas regulations against economic development - either ignored or scorned the
findings.

"We must be good guardians of our Earth," state Attorney General Greg Abbott,
the favorite to be Texas' next governor, told the American-Statesman in an
emailed statement, "but we must base our decisions on peer reviewed scientific
inquiry, free from political demagogues using climate change as an excuse to
remake the American economy."

(The new report is, in fact, based on peer-reviewed findings.)

The man Abbott hopes to replace, Gov. Rick Perry, has mocked global warming
claims, ascribing anxieties about greenhouse gases to a "secular carbon cult."

And Rep. Lamar Smith, the Republican congressman who represents part of Austin
in Washington and who heads the House science, space and technology committee,
said the new report is "a political document intended to frighten Americans into
believing that any abnormal weather we experience is the direct result of human
carbon dioxide emissions."

Smith continued: "It's disappointing that the Obama administration feels
compelled to stretch the truth in order to drum up support for more costly and
unnecessary regulations and subsidies."

But Tuesday's report, echoing other recent research, suggests pitfalls for Texas
as the climate changes.

"The trend toward more dry days and higher temperatures across the South will
increase evaporation, decrease water supplies, reduce electricity transmission
capacity, and increase cooling demands," the authors of the Texas portion
continue. "These changes will add stress to limited water resources and affect
management choices related to irrigation, municipal use and energy generation."

That's already the case in the Austin area, where water flow into lakes Travis
and Buchanan, the chief reservoirs of Central Texas, during January through
April of this year was the worst on record, further choking a reservoir system
little more than a third full. The first four months of 2014 saw inflows that
were 10 percent of the historic average.

But the skepticism of Texas policymakers regarding climate change is enshrined
in the state's water planning process. Asked whether long-term climate change is
folded into that process, Texas Water Development Board spokeswoman Merry
Klonower said: "Our regional water planning process is on five-year cycles,
which allows us to adapt continually to measurable changes to water resources as
they occur over time."

"Our focus is not on what causes droughts but rather on how they affect our
water supplies and how to meet water needs," she said.

Katharine Hayhoe, director of Texas Tech University's Climate Science Center and
the author of a chapter on climate change science in the White House report,
warned that future increases in temperature and shifts in precipitation patterns
"will constrain development, stress our natural resources, and increase
competition for water among communities, agriculture, energy production and
ecological needs."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Climate change already here?
  A federal report says most Americans are already feeling man-made global
warming, from heat waves to wild storms to longer allergy seasons. Some fossil
energy groups, conservative think tanks and Republican senators immediately
assailed the report as "alarmist." Details, A10


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Musical on climate change got federal funds

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 521 words


U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, recently questioned the White House
science czar about the government bankrolling a musical.

Smith, chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, listed six
National Science Foundation grants as questionable - including, Smith said at
the panel's March 26 hearing, a "climate change musical that was prepared for
Broadway but I'm not sure ever was actually produced, $700,000."

Smith then asked John Holdren, the White House science czar, if the foundation
should justify such grants to the public, whose tax dollars fund them.

Holdren replied that the foundation, which is entrusted with promoting
scientific progress, already justifies its grants in online posts.

"We're going to have to agree to disagree," Smith said.

We've noted the scientific consensus globally that the Earth is warming. We
focused for this article on whether the foundation ponied up for a play about
that.

To our inquiry, foundation spokeswoman Dana Topousis said by email the grant was
awarded in 2010, adding: "The Civilians, Inc., a Brooklyn, N.Y., theatre
company, developed an innovative, out-of-the-box approach to exposing U.S.
citizens to science. The project represents the unique cultural leverage of
theater in its attempt to inspire the public's imagination and curiosity about
basic science and its relation to their everyday lives."

Topousis continued: "This venture, like other more traditional NSF-funded
informal science education projects (e.g., interactive science exhibits, IMAX
films, science-based television programming), aims to educate through a focus on
understanding the scientific method, its applications, and its unique ability to
extract knowledge about our complex natural world. It presents the pursuit of
fundamental knowledge through basic research in a neutral manner that does not
advocate any position regarding climate change or conservation research."

A foundation summary of the grant award states that a grant totaling $697,177
was awarded in 2010 covering August 2010 through July 2014.

The summary describes "The Great Immensity" as a "touring play with songs and
video that explores our relationship to the environment, with a focus on
critical issues of climate change and biodiversity conservation."

Sarah Benvenuti, an administrator for the Civilian Theater Co., said the play is
slated to run April 11 to May 1 at the Public Theater's Martinson Hall in New
York, which is not on Broadway.

Benvenuti said the play is about climate change and includes musical numbers,
which one can view in online videos. "Margin of Error," for instance, shows cast
members singing about poll results. (Really.)

Our ruling

Smith said the National Science Foundation awarded $700,000 for a climate change
musical.

The foundation awarded nearly that much for a theater company to produce a
musical play that focuses on climate change and biodiversity conservation. We
rate this statement as True.

Contact W. Gardner Selby at 512-445-3644.

Twitter: @gardnerselby @politifacttexas

lamar smith
  Statement: The National Science Foundation awarded $700,000 to fund a
climate-change musical.


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Letters to the Editor

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 768 words


Indifferent voters, bad representation

Re: Sept.17 and Sept. 24 Ken Herman columns,"Unaware electorate makes me
frustrated" and "Davis did not 'melt' in debate skirmish."

Ken Herman's Sept. 17 column should be bookended with his column of Sept. 24 to
explain how we Texans get such poor government representation. When you watch
Louie Gohmert make a fool of himself on national TV or Steve Stockman
demonstrate ignorance of fourth-grade science while sitting on the House
committee on science and technology, you wonder how this happens.

Well, Herman told you in the Sept. 17 piece about the lack of knowledge of
voters he encountered. Then in the Sept. 24 column, you read how Attorney
General Greg Abbott smeared state Sen. Wendy Davis by labeling her articulate
rebuttal as "she lost it," without fear that anyone would know the difference,
as the voters believe what they are told in campaign soundbites. Really, people?

Turn off the TV, read the paper, watch the debates. Otherwise, he with the money
to buy your time wins. Fight back, get informed and vote!

HELEN CARVELL, AUSTIN

Carbon tax would help U.S. economy

Re: Sept. 23 article, "Businesses and investors pressing for green policy."

On the heels of the big climate change rallies in New York City and even Austin,
I was encouraged by the piece in the paper about corporations and pension funds
calling for economically viable solutions to climate change. If we implement a
national fee on carbon and return 100 percent of the revenue back to American
households, we can both protect the environment and grow the economy. In a
recent national economic study conducted by Regional Economic Modeling Inc., a
nonpartisan group, they found that a revenue-neutral carbon tax would actually
increase GDP by $1.375 trillion more than without it in the first 20 years
alone. If the public is ready and businesses support it, all that remains is for
our policymakers to start drafting legislation.

SUSAN ADAMS, AUSTIN

Greedy parks board giving away Austin

Re: Sept. 25 article, "Parks board likes new name for part of Auditorium
Shores."

I read with dismay the article outlining two more proposed changes to our once
wonderful city. First, our mayor proposed renaming part of Auditorium Shores
after the CEO of the Chamber of Commerce. This smacks of political favoritism as
there seems to be no reason for such a change. Of course, lost is the fact that
such changes cost the taxpayers money as new signs must be purchased, maps
changed, etc.

Also mentioned in the article is that our money-hungry parks board is tripling
the amount the lease holder for the Butler Pitch and Putt contract must pay each
year! I'm guessing this is the first step in taking the course out and selling
the land. Austinites know that this course has been around forever and is a
wonderful oasis in what has become an overly developed area of town. Again,
citizens of Austin lose.

Isn't the parks board supposed to advocate for us to have such affordable
places? Never mind that they have sold Zilker out most of the year. Enough is
enough; be sure to vote, people!

JOHN BRADY, AUSTIN

Only tax on carbon will change things

Re: Sept. 24 Chan Lowe political cartoon.

The cartoon published three days after the big climate march in New York City
was funny, for sure: A couple drives a huge gas guzzler while praising
themselves for saving the planet by attending the march. Unfortunately, the
cartoon is also all too tragic. The reality is that almost all of our daily
activities depend on energy, and for most of us that energy comes from fossil
fuels.

Whether it's dropping our kids off at school, stopping by the grocery store, or
going to a rally, very few of us can avoid a carbon footprint. This is why we
will solve climate change only by enacting policy that changes our energy system
as a whole. Fortunately, there is an elegant policy solution: Put a price on
carbon. This incentivizes consumers to buy goods with a lower carbon footprint
(they'll be cheaper), incentivizes producers to make goods with a lower carbon
footprint (better for their bottom line), and incentivizes innovators to make
the technological advances we'll need for a fossil fuel-free society.

ANNA GRAYBEAL, AUSTIN

Let's end subsidy for state windbags

Re: Sept. 24 article, "Comptroller criticizes wind power subsidies."

Does this mean per diem for our state legislators is going to be revoked? Oh,
sweet irony. Suppressing the biennial hot air cloud that covers our fair city is
the stuff that dreams are made of. Is there an official State Clown of Texas who
scripts this stuff? Oh, wait, never mind.

ROBERT CARTER, AUSTIN

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 13, 2014 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

EPA rules clouding outlook for Texas

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1037 words


When President Barack Obama announced new restrictions on greenhouse gases last
month, Texas leaders were outraged.

As part of Obama's "war on coal," Gov. Rick Perry said, the new regulations
would devastate an important industry and "only further stifle our economy's
sluggish recovery and increase energy costs for American families."

And then there was this: Michael Webber, deputy director of UT's Energy
Institute, called the proposal a "hug to Texas from Obama."

So what sort of consequences will the EPA proposals, which call for 30 percent
cuts in carbon pollution from the nation's power plants from 2005 levels by
2030, have for the Texas energy sector? Will they be a disaster for the state
economy or a boon? The answer, as with most energy and economics issues playing
out over decades, is cloudy.

Texas might have to cut its coal-fired power electrical generation by roughly 50
percent to meet the 2030 target. Coal, a relatively cheap fuel, provided 37
percent of Texas' power in 2013. (The coal-fired Fayette Power Project, jointly
owned by Austin and the Lower Colorado River Authority, provided 26 percent of
Austin's electricity in 2013.)

Webber's argument, in a nutshell: Because the EPA regulations could devastate
carbon-intensive coal power, that leaves natural gas and renewables to pick up
the energy slack. The natural gas drilling boom, and trillions of cubic feet
still untapped beneath state land, as well as vast amounts of wind and sun,
suggests Texas is well-positioned to take advantage, Webber says.

On the face of it, the argument seems to have legs.

Tellingly, the Texas Oil and Gas Association, often seen chiming in with the
governor, has taken a muted position on the EPA proposal: The association "has
long supported a diverse energy portfolio for Texas to ensure energy
affordability, reliability and security," said Executive Vice President Deb
Mamula. "The focus of the EPA's carbon rule on, essentially, a single energy
source is concerning. We join other Texans who will be watching closely to see
how the new rule impacts our state's energy affordability and reliability."

Gas companies do not want to step out of line with Texas political allies, said
Jim Marston, head of the Texas office of Environmental Defense Fund, which has
encouraged the use of cleaner-burning gas as an alternative to coal. "If Rick
Perry were governor of West Virginia," a coal-dependent state, "I could see why
he might say this could harm the state's economy some. The fact he's from Texas
and criticizes this rule is simply crazy."

Meanwhile, there's a robust, if quixotic, effort to make money off regulations.
In early June, immediately after the EPA announced the new regulations,
Austin-based chemical engineering firm Skyonic Corp. promoted its efforts to
develop technology that would capture carbon dioxide emissions and turn them
into profitable products. (Not coincidentally, gas companies pumped $12.5
million into Skyonic in May.)

And in June the University of Texas won a $12 million grant from the Department
of Energy for a carbon storage research project to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.

In other words, Texas appears to have lots of opportunity.

But Michelle Foss, chief energy economist at UT's Bureau of Economic Geology,
said a switch to a natural gas-dominant market could lead to greater volatility
in rates.

"One might look at this and say this is great and a boom for gas energy and
cleaner resources," Foss said. "But on the bad side of the column, there's
stress to the system with the retirement of old coal plants."

She offered the disclaimer that she is skeptical that carbon emissions influence
climate change. Many other economists predict hefty negative effects, such as
the cost of exposure to Texas coastal communities to rising seas, due to the
carbon pollution that scientists link to climate change.

The pull on the system to meet baseload and seasonal electricity needs could
"expose consumers to a lot of volatility in price," she said. "From what I've
seen with these types of adventures, the bad side column overwhelms the good."

Obama himself in a recent speech to the League of Conservation Voters, warned:
"People don't like gas prices going up. They don't like electricity prices going
up. And we ignore those very real and legitimate concerns at our peril, so if
we're blithe about saying this is the defining issue of our time but we don't
address people's legitimate economic concerns then even if they are concerned
about climate change, they may not support efforts to do something about it."

Unsurprisingly, the coal industry also forecasts serious problems.

Mike Nasi, an attorney for the Texas Mining and Reclamation Association, said
the EPA-proposed regulation "hurts the least of us."

"We're proud of the reliability and the steady price of coal," said Trey Powers,
executive director of the association, who said Texas has a 200-year reserve of
coal.

In any case, the EPA proposal could change before it becomes rule.

"There definitely will be litigation," Nasi said.

That could mean years before the EPA proposal is enacted.

And even then, said Scott Tinker, who directs UT's Bureau of Economic Geology,
top-down carbon regulations in other parts of the world have not succeeded in
limiting carbon emissions.

At the end of the day, he asked "Will (the EPA regulations) even matter?"

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

By the numbers
  * In 2012, Texas' power sector carbon emissions were approximately 223
million metric tons, the most in the nation.
  * Texas' emission rate that year was 1,298 pounds of carbon dioxide for every
 megawatt hour of electricity generated. The EPA is proposing that Texas
develop a plan to lower its carbon pollution to meet an emission rate goal of
791 pounds of emissions per megawatt hour by 2030.
  * In 2012, the average annual electricity consumption of an American home was
 nearly 11 megawatt hours.
  Expert reporting
  Asher Price has covered environmental and energy issues in Central Texas
since 2006. Previous stories include examinations of long-term water supplies,
air pollution regulation battles between the state and federal government, and
the consequences, science and politics of the drought.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Exhibit of turmoil, intrigue

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1126 words


If Charles Long's sprawling, complex installation "Catalin" at the Contemporary
Austin's Jones Center begins with an assemblage of things that rather resembles
a department store perfume counter, it's deliberate.

The Los Angeles-based artist found intrigue in the Congress Avenue building's
former life as a Lerner's department store and leveraged that history for his
multimedia, multisensory creation made specifically for its Austin presentation,
a commission from the Contemporary.

Long incorporates just about everything he can into "Catalin" which starts with
a display of perfumes made from glacial water that are dispensed in plastic
oversized glacier-shaped atomizers. The atomizers are made by a 3-D printer
using data sets culled from environmental studies. Ethereal music plays on a
custom-made vinyl record.

Upstairs, architectural wall friezes made of mushroom-based eco-tiles in Art
Deco motifs recall the decadence and grandeur of a 1920s movie palace. (Another
reference to the Jones Center's past: The building was the Queen Theater in the
1920s.)

The large gallery is lit with black lights and dotted with iceberg-shaped
benches covered in fabric made from recycled plastic water bottles - fabric no
longer made because the recycling process was found to generate too much
pollution.

A pair of large boxes hang from two corners of the high-ceilinged gallery. With
louvered fronts, the boxes seem to be enormous air-conditioning units, though
they actually serve as screens for an hourlong mash-up of videos: Time-lapse
footage of receding glaciers intertwines with sepia-toned images of luxury Art
Deco ocean liners and plastic-promoting

infomercials from the 1950s.

"Downstairs is the perfume and record store; upstairs is the movie theater,"
Long explained during a walk-through of the exhibit shortly before it opened in
mid-January. "Or I like to think of upstairs as the disco, too."

Is this a cautionary tale of global climate change? A psychedelic valentine to
the environment?

"It's definitely an elegy - elegy to our innocence," Long said. "But it's a
party, a celebration, too. I can't stand boring art. I like to use humor and
fun."

"Catalin" runs through April 20 at the Contemporary's Jones Center location. And
accompanying it, on the grounds of Laguna Gloria, the Contemporary's West Austin
site, is Long's "Pet Sounds," an interactive series of interconnected
sculptures.

Long named his boutique-cum-theater after a type of plastic that came on the
market in 1927. Made from formaldehyde, catalin was used to make inexpensive,
brightly colored jewelry and household items such as radios, lamps and cutlery
handles. (Catalin is sometimes mistakenly referred to as "bakelite," another
similar plastic.) Highly toxic and chemically unstable, catalin is no longer
used.

Long aligns the era of catalin's commercial popularity with a kind of end of
environmental innocence. "I'm looking at this beautiful moment of the Art Deco
period in the 1920s where there's an infatuation and embrace of the machine age
as an aesthetic," Long said. "An embrace of synthetic materials - plastics - as
an aesthetic and a hopeful part of the future."

Layered into this, Long explained, is his fascination with the work of Rice
University professor and philosophical thinker Timothy Morton, whose book
"Hyperobjects: Philosophy and Ecology After the End of the World" describes
global climate change as the perfect example of a "hyperobject"- something so
vast and of such complexity that it's beyond our traditional definition of what
a thing or event is. (Morton gives a talk March 7 at the Contemporary. See box
for more information.)

"I chose what I did (for â  Catalin') because I wanted to complicate the
catastrophic issue of climate change with a sense of luxury," Long said. "The
fact is, beauty will always be there no matter how harsh and horrible things
are. It's really important to have a sense of the aesthetic in your life
especially in really hard times."

Long, who teaches at the University of California-Riverside, grew up in a family
steeped with invention and science. "We always had crazy chemicals and ceramics
materials in the house," Long said.

While employed by the Corning glass company, Long's grandfather helped develop
the day-night flip mirror now used as rear-view mirrors. A chemist, Long's
father worked for the Army during the years the atom bomb was developed. Long's
mother was also a chemist as well as a ceramics artist.

Though something of a funhouse - granted a slightly foreboding funhouse - and
delightfully cacophonous as it is, "Catalin" doesn't readily reveal its own
complex backstory of why and how such a mash-up of Art Deco zeitgeist, plastic,
environmental destruction, disappearing glaciers and the pleasures of luxury all
becomes one as a single piece.

Long's installation "Pet Sounds" at the Contemporary's Laguna Gloria site,
however, doesn't cloud or mince matters.

Originally commissioned in 2012 for temporary installation in New York's Madison
Square Park, "Pet Sounds" is six Crayola-colored fiberglass sculptures -
human-size biomorphic bulging blobs. Connected by a leash-like handrail that
lines the edge of a path on Laguna Gloria's lower grounds, the shiny variegated
blobs lounge on benches, plop on picnic tables or crouch near trees.

Embedded with sensors that react to touch and emit electronic sounds and
vibrations, "Pet Sounds" is titled after the 1966 Beach Boys album that included
"Wouldn't It Be Nice," among other songs.

An exuberant, welcoming homage to a kind of genuine, joyful sense of play, "Pet
Sounds" eagerly invites people to mingle with it.

And that's nice. And fun.

Contact Jeanne Claire van Ryzin at 512-445-3699.

"Pet Sounds"
  Where: The grounds of Contemporary Austin, Laguna Gloria, 3809 W. 35th St.
  "Catalin"
  Where: Contemporary Austin, Jones Center, 700 Congress Ave.
  When: 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesdays â "Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Sundays,
through April 20.
  Cost: $3-$5
  Information: 512-453-5312, www.thecontemporary austin.org
  Programs
  "Timothy Morton: Hyperobjects"
  What: Ecological theorist Timothy Morton will speak and sign his book,
"Hyperobjects: Philosophy and Ecology After the End of the World"
  When: 5 p.m. March 7
  Where: Contemporary Austin, Jones Center, 700 Congress Ave.
  Cost: Free, but reservations required
  Information: www.thecontemporary
  austin.org
  Rooftop Architecture Film Series: "Biophilic Design: The Architecture of
Life"
  When: 7 p.m. March 26
  Where: Contemporary Austin, Jones Center, 700 Congress Ave.
  Cost: $10
  "Second Saturdays Are for Families"
  What: Hands-on art-making workshops related to "Pet Sounds"
  When: 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. March 8
  Where: Contemporary Austin, Laguna Gloria, 3809 W. 35th St.
  Cost: $10 per family


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Austin's carbon-neutral car goal runs on 'maybe'

BYLINE: Lilly Rockwell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1140 words


Seven years ago, the city of Austin set an ambitious goal: make its fleet of
city-owned cars go "carbon-neutral" by 2020.

It was part of a major climate change initiative passed by the City Council,
which focused on ways the city could cut its greenhouse gas emissions.

But the city has struggled to achieve its lofty goal. Austin spent nearly $33
million on more than 500 new vehicles this fiscal year, but only bought seven
hybrid or electric vehicles, according to an analysis by the American-Statesman.
The rest were mostly sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, or heavy-duty
construction or utility trucks, though many are capable of running on
cleaner-burning alternative fuels.

The city's effort to reduce its contribution to climate change from its fleet of
5,372 fuel-burning vehicles is clashing against the reality of a vehicle
manufacturing industry that still produces primarily gasoline-powered cars and
trucks, and city departments that are reluctant to trade in an SUV or truck for
a compact, gas-sipping Toyota Prius.

"It's been a slow process," said Jennifer Walls, who works in the city's fleet
services department. "We can say we want all this stuff - and if the
manufacturers don't make it, then they just don't make it."

Still, the city says, it's made serious strides toward its carbon
dioxide-neutral goal, pointing to the fact that in the last seven years the
carbon dioxide emissions from its fleet have dropped more than 12 percent to
45,517 metric tons last year. This happened while the city's fleet grew by more
than 500 vehicles.

"If you benchmarked against other cities and tried to find true baseline
reductions and fleets that have gone so far, so fast in incorporating hybrids
and alternative fuels, you'd be hard-pressed to find one as good as Austin,"
said Zach Baumer, the city's climate program manager.

Skip the Subaru

The biggest obstacle to a greener fleet is the city itself. Performing functions
such as paving asphalt, maintaining utility lines and hauling garbage require
large, wide-body trucks. They don't make an all-electric utility truck - yet.

"For certain types of vehicles, there is no choice," Baumer said.

For the city's lighter-load vehicles - such as sedans, SUVs and trucks that make
up a majority of its fleet - Baumer prepares a yearly report studying the
options for the least environmentally damaging vehicles at the best price. But
his recommendations aren't always followed.

For instance, this year Baumer suggested buying the Subaru Crosstrek hybrid in
the small SUV class, which he determined would produce fewer greenhouse gas
emissions and cost less over its lifetime than other vehicles, such as the
Chevrolet Equinox, Ford Escape and Toyota RAV4.

Instead, the city went with the Chevrolet Equinox, which could cost the city
$3,000 more over its lifetime than the Subaru, according to Baumer's report. So
far this year, the city bought 38 Chevy Equinoxes across a smattering of city
departments, such as code compliance and aviation.

Irvin Schmidt, a fleet operations manager at the city, said Austin can't switch
to buying Subarus very easily.

"If we went for a completely different brand - although the vehicle might be
better environmentally - we still have to work on it, keep it running, and we
don't have the parts," Schmidt said.

The city has existing maintenance contracts for Fords, Chevrolets and Toyotas,
he said.

Some departments also prefer larger SUVs that also aren't recommended by Baumer,
saying they need more room for equipment.

"We make recommendations, and we do our best to convince them. But in the end,
it's up to the department," Baumer said.

This fiscal year, the city bought 152 Ford Explorers, most of them for the
Austin Police Department.

Sgt. Stephen Fleming said the department will primarily use them for patrol
cars. The department is also using the Ford Taurus Interceptor as the
discontinued Crown Victoria patrol cars age.

The Explorer "was a better match for our growing force," Fleming said. He said
they could not only better accommodate police officers and their passengers but
offered improved visibility at intersections.

Council Member Chris Riley said public safety concerns trump environmental ones.

"The hope is we will see new technologies within the next few years that will
move us further in the direction of climate protection without sacrificing
public safety," Riley said.

Getting to zero

While the city has had modest success persuading departments to drive Priuses or
the electric-powered Ford Focus, it's been more aggressive converting vehicles
to "flex-fuel," which can run on cleaner-burning alternative fuels.

The two main alternative fuel types the city offers are E85, which is 85 percent
ethanol and 15 percent regular gasoline, or B20, which is 20 percent biodiesel
blended with petro-diesel, though the city has stopped providing biodiesel
temporarily. The city also has some vehicles powered by propane, which also
emits fewer greenhouse gases.

But there's no way to force the drivers of these vehicles to use these fuels
over regular gasoline. Drivers of city vehicles have to use city-owned refueling
stations. There are more than 40 of these stations throughout the city, but only
four stations have E85.

Their efforts are yielding some success: the city has gone from 8 percent of its
fuel usage coming from alternative fuels in 2007 to 42 percent last fiscal year,
though it had fallen from a high of 53 percent in 2012.

E85 is considered better for the environment than regular gasoline because it
reduces greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20 percent. However, it doesn't
satisfy the city's goal because it still emits carbon dioxide.

"It may be impossible to get to zero," Baumer acknowledges, which is why the
city will likely use a carbon-emission accounting trick to meet that 2020 goal.
Baumer said the city will likely buy carbon credits or offsets for the carbon
dioxide produced in that year.

Riley said he hopes these credits will support local projects that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions in Austin.

He said the aggressive goals make sense, though the city can never be truly
carbon-free.

"Short of having someone standing at the city limits, stopping anyone from
driving a car in, we'll likely always have emissions," he said. "If we already
are going to be carbon-neutral, we'll always have to have some kind of offset.
But that isn't a bad thing."

Contact Lilly Rockwell at 512-445-3632.

BOX:

CITY OF AUSTIN ALTERNATIVE FUEL USE

2007: 388,866gallons, or 8percent of total fuel

use

2008: 866,961gallons, or 17.6 percent of total

fuel use

2009: 1,323,342 gallons, or 26.8 percent of

total fuel use

2010: 1,774,709 gallons, or 35.8 percent of

total fuel use

2011: 2,472,129 gallons, or 48.8 percent of

total fuel use

2012: 2,639,179 gallons, or 52.8 percent of

total fuel use

2013: 2,160,137 gallons, or 42.3 percent of

total fuel use

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

After heated campaign, debate surprisingly cool

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 902 words


SALADO - State Sen. Dan Patrick told a Central Texas Tea Party forum Tuesday
night that embattled University of Texas System Regent Wallace L. Hall Jr. ought
not be impeached for what Patrick described as Hall's well-warranted efforts to
ferret out the undue influence some legislators have allegedly used to get
friends and relatives into the UT School of Law over better-qualified
candidates.

Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst sidestepped the question, saying that he needed to
maintain his neutrality in the event that an impeachment of Hall by the House
leads to a trial in the Senate, over which the lieutenant governor presides. But
Patrick scoffed at that rationale, noting that Dewhurst had early in the
controversy sent a text to UT System Regent Alex Cranberg, scolding him for what
he thought was Cranberg's role, along with Hall, in spreading anonymous rumors
about UT President Bill Powers.

"I'm glad that Wallace Hall is not resigning," Patrick said, describing Hall as
a "public servant appointed to the Board of Regents to look out for the
taxpayers."

He said legislators using their influence to game the admissions process was "a
potentially huge scandal" that needed to be investigated.

Dewhurst said after the forum that Patrick was taking the comment to Cranberg
out of context and that he would be perfectly able to preside with dispassion
over an impeachment trial.

Dewhurst and Patrick debated for an hour in what might have been their last
meeting before next Tuesday's GOP runoff for lieutenant governor.

Coming off a combative patch of campaigning after the release last week of
records relating to Patrick's mental health struggles in the 1980s, the forum
was a surprisingly civil and substantive debate - mostly on hot-button questions
from the tea party crowd about such issues as global warming and whether Texas
might want to consider executing death row inmates by firing squad.

The mental health issue didn't come up during the debate, although reporters
asked both candidates about it before and after the event. Patrick accused
Dewhurst of orchestrating the release of the documents without owning up to it.
Dewhurst has denied that he or his campaign was involved.

Before the forum, the two candidates worked the room in separate orbits. Patrick
was dressed in jeans and a checked shirt, Dewhurst in dress slacks and dress
shirt, the sleeves rolled up the wrists.

For the Q-and-A session, they sat side by side on folding chairs in front of a
log table decorated with red, white and blue bunting.

The roughly 50 spectators offered both a respectful hearing, without any
outbursts that would suggest one or the other was the house favorite.

As is their style, Patrick tended to be more direct and Dewhurst - who opened
with, "I'm obviously David Dewhurst" - tended to meander.

On global warming, radio talk host Lynn Woolley, who asked the questions, asked
each how many billions of dollars they would be willing to spend to cool the
climate a single degree, "which is all that is possible."

"Zero," Dewhurst blurted out to applause.

"We've got to stand up to this federal government that thinks differently than
all of us in Texas," Dewhurst said.

Patrick also said "zero," again to applause. He said there was scientific
evidence on both sides of the global warming argument and that for him, the
tiebreaker is, "If Al Gore thinks it's right, you know it's wrong."

Patrick said that Gore makes money off of sounding the climate change alarm.
"It's a cottage industry," he said.

And President Barack Obama, Patrick said, thinks he can "change the weather. He
thinks he's the smartest person in the country. He thinks he knows better in
Washington what we do in Texas."

Patrick said that Democratic efforts to deal with climate change "will destroy
jobs and destroy the economy."

"I'll leave it in the hands of God - he's handled our planet very well for a
long time," he said.

Asked about using a firing squad to execute condemned killers instead of lethal
injection, Dewhurst began by saying, "Well, you know, there are certain crimes,
that I'd be all for it, but at the end of the day...."

He then went into a discussion of his role in overseeing executions when Gov.
Rick Perry was out of state when an execution was scheduled.

Dewhurst said he had presided over some 40 executions, and he saw it as a solemn
responsibility, clearing his schedule and talking with defense counsel to be
sure that there wasn't any additional information he ought to know about the
case.

Referring to the recent botched execution in Oklahoma, where an inmate lingered
before dying after being administered a lethal cocktail, "Here we have been
using a cocktail that is effective, I'm told, painless and effective."

Patrick said he would want to seek the attorney general's counsel on that
question, because the state wouldn't want to implement a method of execution
that might be considered "cruel and unusual" punishment that wouldn't pass
constitutional muster.

But Patrick said it was "amazing how the liberal media handled" the story of the
bungled Oklahoma execution.

"No one wanted to see someone to die a tortuous death as this person apparently
did," Patrick said. But, he said there was also, à la "Paul Harvey, the rest of
the story."

"Why was he on that gurney?" Patrick asked, saying the condemned man had broken
into a home, shot the woman who lived there and buried her alive.

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Perry blasts new EPA carbon rules

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 960 words


Texas' governor blasted a federal proposal Monday to cut carbon pollution from
the nation's power plants 30 percent from 2005 levels by 2030.

Even as environmental groups welcomed the sweeping plan to address climate
change, Gov. Rick Perry said it is "the most direct assault yet" on the state's
utilities by the Obama administration.

Among the 41 coal-fired power plants likely to be hit hardest by the proposals
is the Fayette Power Project, 60 miles southeast of Austin, which supplies
coal-fired power to Austin Energy and rural electric cooperatives around Central
Texas.

The Lower Colorado River Authority and Austin Energy, which jointly run the
power plant, said it's too early to tell how the proposed rule could affect the
operation of the power plant or electricity rates.

But citing precedents, Michael Webber, deputy director of the University of
Texas Energy Institute, said rates are unlikely to go up in any significant way
in Texas.

When the federal government instituted regulations to tamp down acid rain a
couple of decades ago, utilities claimed "grandmothers are going to die in the
dark and in the cold," he said.

"Look, you've got the same complaints now," he said. "But rates went down, no
one was laid off, and engineers figured out a way (to cut pollution)," he said.

Experts say the proposal could lead to the closing of hundreds of coal-fired
plants nationally and fundamentally change the American electricity industry.
Coal-fired plants are especially vulnerable because coal is the largest source
of the greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for trapping heat in the
atmosphere, thereby warming the planet.

The proposal, which is a draft and open to public comment, gives states leeway
to reach the pollution cuts. Rather than shutting coal plants overnight, states
could reduce emissions by making changes across their electricity systems - by
installing new wind and solar generation or energy-efficiency technology, or by
participating in "cap and trade" programs, in which states agree to cap carbon
pollution and buy and sell permits to pollute.

How Texas' energy companies will fare in a carbon-constrained world is an open
question.

If coal-fired plants are a loser, cleaner-burning, gas-fired plants appear to be
winners. That leaves Texas, with its vast gas fields, poised for prosperity,
Webber said.

Protests from the governor notwithstanding, the proposal is "a hug from Obama to
Texas," he said.

The plan "will hit other states, but we have a heavy natural gas mix," he said.

The LCRA "continually strives to minimize (Fayette's) potential impacts to the
environment and public health, and we remain proud of (the plant) and the
environmentally responsible manner in which it's run," said river authority
spokeswoman Clara Tuma.

The EPA proposal could have ripple effects in Central Texas, where rural
cooperatives rely on the LCRA for power. The river authority gets about 60
percent of its power from coal, 33 percent from gas, and 7 percent from
hydropower and wind.

Texas environmental groups, for their part, praised the proposal.

"As the nation's energy leader, Texas has the resources and the know-how to
create a diverse energy portfolio that relies on wind, solar, natural gas,
energy efficiency, and other clean technologies to save Texans money and grow
the state's economy - without risking affordability or reliability," said Kate
Zerrenner, clean energy project manager with the Environmental Defense Fund.

Texas has routinely battled the Obama administration in the courts over
environmental regulation, arguing new rules would hurt businesses and amount to
an unlawful imposition on the states. In his statement Monday, Perry linked the
EPA carbon rules to Obama's signature health care initiative.

"Americans have seen the disastrous results of federal mandates with Obamacare,"
he said, "and these rules will only further stifle our economy's sluggish
recovery and increase energy costs for American families."

Bryan Shaw, the chairman of the Texas environmental agency, took a more measured
tone, acknowledging the flexibility the proposal appears to give states.

But, he said, he was concerned that Texas could not make the greenhouse cuts
without costing jobs, dampening the economy or jeopardizing the reliability of
electricity. He said Congress was better suited to lead the way on climate
policy.

Yet the Republican-controlled House has shown little interest in regulating
carbon emissions, which is partly why Obama instructed his EPA to move forward
with the rules.

"Undoubtedly, there's going to be some litigation," said John Fainter, the head
of the Association of Electric Companies of Texas.

The key question, Fainter said, is how much flexibility the EPA affords states
as they work to meet carbon limits in coming years.

That's exactly the word EPA administrator Gina McCarthy emphasized in remarks on
the proposal Monday.

"The glue that holds this plan together - and the key to making it work - is
that each state's goal is tailored to its own circumstances, and states have the
flexibility to reach their goal in whatever way works best for them," she said.

States will have until June 2016 to submit their plans for compliance.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Where energy comes from

  In 2013, Texas got 40.5 percent of its energy from natural gas; 37.2 percent
from coal; 11.6 percent from nuclear; 9.9 percent from wind. The rest, less
than a percent, came from a variety of other sources.
  That same year, Austin Energy got 25.9 percent of its energy from coal; 22.8
percent from nuclear; 20.7 percent from renewables; 15.7 percent from gas; and
14.9 from a mix of purchase-power agreements, most of them gas-related.
  Sources: ERCOT and Austin Energy, from 2013 data




LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 12, 2014 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Council vote near on Decker, Fayette

BYLINE: Lilly Rockwell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 559 words


After months of debate and scrutiny over Austin Energy's renewable energy goals,
the Austin City Council was poised late Thursday to vote on major changes to
those goals that would include replacing the Decker gas plant in three years
with a new $500 million one and ramping down or selling its share of the Fayette
coal plant as early as 2022.

At press time, the council had yet to vote, having tabled the issue to take up
other matters on its 231-item agenda.

Under the proposal, Austin Energy would aim to get 55 percent of its power from
renewable-energy sources within 10 years, with the rest coming from a new, more
efficient gas plant at the Decker site and its South Texas nuclear plant.

In some ways the proposal was a victory for environmental groups such as the
Sierra Club, which had been lobbying for years through its Beyond Coal campaign
to close power plants like Fayette that emit greenhouse gases that contribute to
climate change.

But it also was a victory for Austin Energy, which is lobbying hard for a new
gas plant, in part because it argues it needs a mix of power supplies -
including sources that work when the sun isn't shining or the wind isn't blowing
- to help keep rates down.

This measure would not provide an immediate green light to build a new gas
plant; first, an independent study would be conducted to determine if it made
economic sense to build one.

There was some disagreement between the council and Austin Energy on the
strength of this study and whether its conclusions would actually have the power
to derail plans for a new gas plant.

The deadline for the study to be completed is next May.

City Council members offered some amendments to the plan that were aimed at
strengthening the role of the independent review of the gas plant and giving the
Electric Utility Commission a stronger role.

City Council Member Mike Martinez said he and other members of the council were
skittish about embracing a new combined-cycle gas plant after voting for the
expensive, little-used biomass plant in 2009.

"Like we saw with the biomass plant, we followed staff's advice," Martinez said.
"It didn't turn out well.... It's a lesson we learned that we're trying not to
repeat again."

Because it was a public hearing, the City Council heard an hour of testimony
from people for and against the new renewable energy goals. Most of the people
against it didn't like the plans for a new gas plant, preferring to invest more
heavily in renewable energy because they say it's cheaper and better for the
environment.

In an unusual coalition, some of the anti-new-gas-plant folks were on the same
side of the argument as ratepayer advocate groups like the Coalition for Clean
Affordable Reliable Energy, which represents large ratepayers.

Roger Wood, chairman of CCARE, said already some Austin Energy customers were
receiving notices of bill increases of up to 5 percent, which violates the 2
percent affordability goal set by the council.

The city has spent just under a year trying to craft a plan for how much power
it will generate from renewable energy in an attempt to wean itself off power
sources that contribute to climate change.

Its last goal was to generate 35 percent of its power from renewable energy by
2020. It is on track to exceed that goal, so the council wanted to set a new
benchmark.

Contact Lilly Rockwell

at 512-445-3632.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION: An article on Page B1 of Friday's Metro & State section about Austin
Energy incorrectly characterized how the utility will end its share of the
Fayette coal plant. Austin Energy is investigating ways to close its share of
the plant by 2022.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 25, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Incentive funds' future debated

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 885 words


Round Rock is one of two finalists for 1,000 cybersecurity jobs - but the
state's cumbersome application process for incentive money could jeopardize
Texas' chances of landing that business, a state legislative committee was told
Thursday.

"Time kills deals," Ben White, vice president of economic development for Round
Rock, told the House Committee on Economic and Small Business Development.

White said Round Rock is still in the hunt for what it dubs "Project Cranberry"
- no other details about the potential deal were available Thursday - but said
the city is competing with a site in Alabama, which offered incentives in a
matter of weeks while the Texas process could take months.

Thursday's hearing was a chance for Gov. Rick Perry's economic development team
to take a victory lap as Perry's term runs out, but it also was an opportunity
to discuss how Texas could fall behind in the competition to recruit businesses
and encourage startups.

The hearing touched on several topics, including why the Austin area is losing
out on manufacturing jobs, how other states are competing better with Texas and
the effectiveness of the Emerging Technology Fund, which has benefited Austin's
startup sector.

During the hearing, there also were several references to a political sea change
expected at the Capitol.

Over the past 14 years, Perry has emphasized economic development, deploying the
Texas Enterprise Fund's $400 million to close deals to encourage companies to
locate to Texas.

There will be a new governor next year and possibly a new lieutenant governor,
meaning at least two-thirds of the state leadership could be turning over. House
Speaker Joe Straus also could attract an opponent.

The prospect of change has many members of the economic development community
nervous, including out-of-state site selectors who advise companies on where to
locate.

Dave Porter, Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce senior vice president for
economic development, said site selectors are saying: "We've had 14 years of
consistency. What's going to happen now?"

State Rep. John Davis, a Houston Republican who leads the committee, has
supported economic incentives in the past but he also pressed the governor's
staff to prove the effectiveness of those tactics.

Davis said he has heard questions about whether Texas should continue to use
taxpayer dollars to spur economic development - or simply let the state's
business climate do the job.

"What should the government be involved in? That's a legitimate question," Davis
said after the hearing. "These programs need to justify their existence, but I
don't know what the next governor will or won't do."

Jonathan Taylor, Perry's economic development director, said the $400 million
from the Enterprise Fund has created 71,000 direct jobs and 228,000 indirect
jobs.

"Those are big numbers anywhere," he said. "Even in Texas."

But he said other states are now competing with their own incentive funds. He
testified that a least 20 states have "deal-closing funds" patterned after the
Enterprise Fund and about 30 states have funds to encourage emerging technology.

"If you think we're giving away or investing more than other states, that hasn't
been true for a long while," Taylor said.

Instead, he said Texas' "fair and predictable" regulatory climate is a
difference maker.

He said New York and California - except for Silicon Valley - are no longer
Texas' primary competition. He said North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Louisiana and Monterrey, Mexico, are today's competitors.

Taylor said the demand for incentives is escalating so much that all of the
governor's incentive funds will be depleted next year unless the Legislature
appropriates more money.

He agreed that the application process for the Enterprise Fund is too long. He
said North Carolina recently put $100 million on the table for a company within
two weeks. By comparison, Texas can takes months, including up to 90 days for
the governor, lieutenant governor and speaker to sign off.

On another topic, Porter urged legislators to look at statutory requirements for
wages that companies must pay to receive incentives. He said average wages in
Travis and Williamson counties are so high that it discourages manufacturers
from locating here. Porter said landing manufacturing jobs could help poorer
workers who can't qualify for higher-paying technology jobs.

"Manufacturing is a great opportunity," he said. "We're just not competitive."

Dick Lavine with the Center for Public Policy Priorities said the state should
help poorer areas of Texas.

"The state should focus on areas that aren't booming on their own," he said.
"Why should we incentivize wages below the average (wage)?"

State Rep. Jason Villalba, R-Dallas, questioned the Emerging Technology Fund's
record, particularly noting that top private venture capital funds only invested
in 14 percent of the startups it chose to invest in.

Terry Chase Hazell, the fund's director, said the state has changed its
investment model to emphasize awards to universities instead of startup
companies. She said the state has been recruiting professors with a record of
creating companies and funding business parks and incubators at universities.

"We're really investing in a university startup innovation pipeline," she said.

Contact Laylan Copelin at 512-445-3617.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 21, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

City on verge of last big wind buy for now

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1042 words


Austin Energy is close to signing a $31 million-per-year wind contract that,
utility executives are cautioning, will probably be the city's last major wind
buy this decade, absent new marching orders from the City Council.

The council is scheduled to vote Thursday on a deal with a 160-turbine wind farm
scheduled to open late next year between Lubbock and Amarillo. The 300-megawatt
facility would put Austin Energy on the verge of getting 35 percent of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2016 - a milestone it would hit four years
ahead of the council's ambitious green-energy plans.

Officials say the purchase will help meet demand in the fast-growing Austin area
and allow the utility to rely less on coal and natural gas, which when burned
emit carbon that most scientists say contributes to global climate change.
Having a diverse mix of energy sources also protects customers from price swings
or other disruptions if problems arise with a particular source of power.

It's good Austin Energy is so far along the green path, utility officials say.
After riding West Texas wind to national recognition, the utility, at least for
the near future, will probably be unable to duplicate its recent run of cheap
purchases because federal wind-power subsidies are expiring.

"The whole (energy) market has come down and that's helped us secure"
cost-effective wind deals, said Cheryl Mele, Austin Energy's chief operating
officer. "The question now is what's next if there are no credits."

She said the utility will remain open to any particularly sweet deals that come
along, but it will focus its renewable energy efforts on solar. It should have a
major solar project before the council within six months, Mele said.

Austin Energy's wind programs have put it at the forefront of the nation's
utility industry. In 2000, the utility established GreenChoice, the
groundbreaking program that allowed willing customers to pay only for the
electricity from West Texas facilities. At times, the city's wind prices dipped
below that of the conventional fuel mix, and GreenChoice customers were paying
less than the rest of the city's homes and businesses - an all-but-unthinkable
accomplishment at the time.

The proposed West Texas plant would charge Austin Energy somewhere between 2.8
cents per kilowatt-hour and 3.8 cents per kilowatt-hour, which is less than the
utility estimates even natural gas would cost once the cost of plant
construction is taken into account. (Austin Energy doesn't disclose exactly how
much it pays under such contracts, but the contract fixes a set price per
kilowatt-hour and the utility only pays for what it uses.)

Although Austin Energy has done well with wind purchases, other attempts to
reach the green forefront of the industry have ended with less-than-stellar
results.

The city signed onto a 30-megawatt solar complex just east of Austin that began
operating in 2011 and is costing Austin Energy about 50 percent more the U.S.
Energy Department says new solar projects are now charging.

And a $2.3 billion wood-waste plant in West Texas that started operating in 2012
has been idle for long stretches because its electricity is too expensive,
starting at 9 cents per kilowatt-hour and gradually rising to about 16 cents per
kilowatt-hour, according to details provided by sources. That 20-year contract
offended environmental activists and fiscal curmudgeons alike.

But even with those projects, the utility has gone from 11 percent renewable
sources in mid-2010 to 23 percent now, while maintaining rates among the lowest
in the state. Even after a rate increase in 2012 that was preceded by two years
of rancorous debate, Austin Energy remains cheaper than at least 60 percent of
the state's utilities and is required to remain so under the policies
established by the council.

Austin Energy officials caution that even federally aided wind contracts are
effective only up to a point because the utility cannot rely so heavily on wind
that, when the wind isn't blowing, the utility runs short on generating capacity
and has to buy electricity on the sometimes-expensive state grid.

West and North Texas wind tends to blow at night, when demand is lowest, but
Austin Energy has made that tendency part of a larger strategy to reduce its
reliance on a coal-fired plant to Austin's east. Austin Energy's plan has been
to reduce the Fayette coal plant's output to 70 percent or even less, ramping
down mainly on nights when wind is available as a substitute.

The strategy hasn't thrilled many of the city's environmental activists and
energy wonks. Some of them are pushing the utility to sell the coal plant, while
others say the city should be trying to shut it down. Utility executives say
both options are too costly and too difficult to carry out unless the federal
government enacts a tax on carbon.

The new 18-year wind contract, with Lincoln Renewable Energy, would actually
replace a 170-megawatt contract with another company that fell through after the
council approved it last summer. Austin Energy says the new deal is one of the
last projects still eligible for tax credits. The credits knocked about 2.3
cents per kilowatt-hour off Lincoln Renewable Energy's asking price, or
somewhere between one-third and just under one-half, depending on how much
Austin Energy agreed to pay under the undisclosed specifics.

According to a brief report by Austin Energy, signing the contract will
"eliminate the need for additional wind before 2020" and satisfy the wind energy
portion of the city's climate-protection plan.

With Austin Energy on the verge of satisfying its wind goals for the near
future, the utility is now sorting through solar proposals it has already
solicited, Mele said. The utility's plan is ultimately to replace some wind
contracts that are expiring later in the decade with solar, which is now a
negligible part of Austin Energy's fuel mix.

The typical price of large-scale solar projects has dropped from about 21 cents
per kilowatt-hour in 2010 to 11 cents per kilowatt-hour at the end of 2013,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Austin Energy
executives think large-scale solar investment could be cost-effective toward the
end of the

decade.

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Wild Basin expands learning opportunities at university

BYLINE: Katie Urbaszewski Austin Community Newspapers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 477 words


Since St. Edward's University took over the management of the Wild Basin
Wilderness Preserve in 2009, students have descended on the land for research
and other valuable projects.

"The level of activity has never been higher than it is now," said Wild Basin
Creative Research Center Director John Abbott.

With the help of two grants, the center plans to turn its main hall into an
environmental education center this summer for the general public, specifically
geared toward elementary through high school students, he said. The center also
plans to offer some teacher training this fall.

A separate $200,000 grant has begun funding the efforts of St. Edward's students
who are compiling a database of the state of vegetation and animals throughout
the basin, Abbott said. Tracking those findings over the years can help
determine whether changes in the environment - whether it's from development or
climate change - might be affecting Wild Basin, he said.

"We want to be able to help people that care, including ourselves, catch it
early and mitigate for it," Abbott said.

While Wild Basin remains a protected preserve, much of the surrounding land is
developed and continues to grow.

The grant, from the Los Angeles-based W.M. Keck Foundation, was given to St.
Edward's School of Natural Sciences, though computer science students will also
play a huge role in compiling the database, Abbott said.

Students' education and resumes benefit from the research opportunities that the
grant affords, and they also benefit from the interdisciplinary experience.

"It's really neat to have these students from all these different disciplines -
bioinformatics, biology and computer science - coming together," he said. "We
have weekly meetings where all the students get together to discuss what they're
doing, so the computer scientists can get a better understanding of the biology
that's going on, and the biologists can get a better understanding of how the
database is being developed."

The Wild Basin Creative Research Center views the grant as seed money, and
hopefully the research will extend past the three-year life of the grant, Abbott
said.

Contact Katie Urbaszewski at 512-445-3707.

about wild basin
  Wild Basin Wilderness Preserve includes 227 acres within the Balcones
Canyonlands Preserve system along the Capital of Texas Highway. It was
established in 1974 despite intense development pressures. St. Edward's
University acquired Wild Basin and took over the land management duties in
2009, and it later created a creative research center that provides learning
opportunities for students of all ages.
  The trails are open to the public from dawn to dusk. Wild Basin also offers
volunteer opportunities and guided school tours. The preserve offices at 805
North Capital of Texas Highway are open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. weekdays. For
information, call 512-327-7622.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 29, 2014 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Dems: GOP at war with women Dems: GOP wa on gays, women Dems' platfor targets
GOP GOP at war wit women , Dems' platfor accuses GOP women, gays divide parties
Dems' platfor blasts GOP Party's platfom blasts GOP in planks Party blasts GOP
in planks

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 924 words


DALLAS - The Texas Democratic State Convention approved a platform Saturday with
new sections assailing what it alleged were the Republican Party's 14 years of
"targeted attacks" on the rights of Texas women and the GOP's fresh
encouragement of "violence against the very souls of LGBTQ people."

What they described as an assault on "the rights and autonomy of Texas women...
in the name of â  family values'" - dating back to when Rick Perry succeeded
George W. Bush as governor - involved threading together abortion restrictions
and Perry's veto last year of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.

Democrats, nationally

and in Texas, have come to call it the "Republican war

on women."

Or, as state Sen. Wendy Davis, the party's nominee for governor against
Republican rival Greg Abbott, put it in her speech to the convention Friday
night, "When Mr. Abbott says he'd veto the Texas Equal Pay Act, he's trying to
take us back to yesterday. It's not 1814. He needs to add 200 years. Women can
go to college now. We can vote. We don't iron the pants; we wear them."

The new language in the platform's section on the rights of lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender and queer Texans came in reply to a "reparative therapy"
plank added to the Texas Republicans' platform at their convention in Fort Worth
three weeks ago. It is a plank that Democrats in Dallas this weekend portrayed
as a window into retrograde thinking in a rival party they characterize as in
the thrall of its right-wing fringe.

The Democratic platform is about "common-sense problem solving," said state Sen.
Leticia Van de Putte, the party's candidate for lieutenant governor, describing
the Republican platform, by contrast, as a pastiche of pandering and odd ideas
from "the U.S. out of the U.N., and the U.N. out of the U.S.," to its touting of
reparative counseling to straighten gays.

After describing homosexuality as a "chosen behavior" contrary to the laws of
God, the Republican platform recognized "the legitimacy and efficacy of
counseling, which offers reparative therapy and treatment for those patients
seeking healing and wholeness from their homosexual lifestyle."

In response, the Democratic platform states, "For decades it has been beyond
dispute by health professionals that homosexuality is a normal, natural and
positive variation of human sexual orientation. Similarly, it is clear that a
person's gender identity - one's inner sense of being male or female - is
deep-seated and cannot be changed."

"Yet," the Democratic plank asserts, "in 2014, the Republican Party of Texas
continues to encourage violence against the very souls of LGBTQ people through
the quackery known as â  reparative therapy,' which is now illegal in two
states," and, it recommended, ought to be banned in Texas as well.

"It is bad science - they are promoting something that has no scientific proof
and acting as if it has value to someone's life," said state Rep. Garnet
Coleman, the Houston legislator who has chaired the platform committee since
2002 but said this would be his last go-round.

Whether it's reparative therapy, or the Republican Party platform's injunction
for "government at all levels to ignore any plea for money to fund global
climate change or â  climate justice' initiatives," Coleman said that "the real
problem with what Republicans offer today is that it has no basis in fact. It's
bad science across the board, so there's a theme over there - if you say it
enough times, it's true."

The platform committee worked on the document from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday.
Its approval closed out the two-day convention, which heard from the party's
leading lights and candidates for statewide office, and on Saturday afternoon
re-elected Gilberto Hinojosa as chairman on a vote of 6,999 to 364 for Rachel
Barrios-Van Os of Austin.

The 62-page Democratic platform and its 40-page Republican counterpart will
probably not matter much in the fall campaign. Unlike the Republican platform,
the Democratic platform doesn't even ask its candidates to pledge fealty to it.
Coleman said Democrats expect their candidates to think for themselves. Just
before the Democrats approved their platform on a voice vote, a delegate rose on
the floor, saying it was too long and no one would read it. He moved that they
cut everything but the short preamble, but his motion died for lack of a second.

Whatever else, the two documents offer a clear sense of where each party's head
is at and the stark ideological differences between what is now a very liberal
Democratic Party and a very conservative Republican Party in Texas.

The Democrats call for investing more in education. The Republicans call for
"reducing taxpayer funding to all levels of education institutions."

Republicans want to repeal Obamacare. Democrats want to keep it and go beyond it
to "Medicare for all."

Republicans want to reverse Roe v. Wade and enact a constitutional amendment
protecting the rights of the unborn. Democrats say the decision about an
abortion should be left to a woman, her family, her physician, her conscience
and her God without political interference.

Republicans want to privatize Social Security. Democrats don't.

Republicans want to repeal the Voting Rights Act. Democrats want to restore the
act's section that required Texas to get federal approval before making changes
in voting laws.

Republicans want to end in-state tuition for what they called "illegal
immigrants." Democrats want to keep it, and they call the beneficiaries "Texas
undocumented students."

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Art Science Gallery creates its own niche

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1141 words


Insect-based hors d'oeuvres were served at an Art Science Gallery opening during
the East Austin Studio Tour last November - hardly the standard art gallery
canapé of cheese cubes and crackers.

But for an exhibit of insect-inspired art, an invitation to experiment with
entomophagy (bug eating) proved popular. So did a class on how to crochet
hyperbolic planes and a lecture by artist Emily Bryant, who creates collages
from invasive plants removed from parks.

Though it occupies a sleek white-walled space among other galleries and artists'
studios in Canopy, the East Austin warehouse arts hub, much is not typical about
Art Science Gallery nor its founder and owner, Hayley Gillespie.

In the few short months it's been open, the gallery has celebrated the images
capture by NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, staged the collaborative "Darwin Day
Portrait Project," hosted an exhibit of the international "Periodic Table of the
Elements Printmaking Project" and offered a printmaking demonstration by Inked
Animal, the artistic collaboration of fish biologists Adam Cohen and Ben Labay
who have expanded traditional Japanese Gyotaku printmaking with fish.

With a doctorate in ecology and animal behavior from the University of Texas -
her dissertation was on the endangered Barton Springs salamander - Gillespie,
33, didn't follow the usual route to art gallery stewardship. And she doesn't
harbor the usual notions of the difference between art and science.

"To me it's all about curiosity," says Gillespie. "Both art and science involve
wondering about the unknown, hypothesizing a new interpretation, distilling a
complex topic. Someone doesn't have to be categorized as an artist or a
scientist. They can intuitively blend both."

Indeed, it wasn't until the last century or so, Gillespie notes, that art and
science took divergent paths. Essential drawing has been a necessary means of
scientific documentation since ancient times. Inventions for flying machines,
anatomical drawings as well as the Mona Lisa - arguably the most famous painting
in the world - are all part of Leonardo da Vinci's remarkable output. And
naturalist John James Audubon's watercolors of North American birds today are
remembered as much for their aesthetics as for their ornithological detail.

"I'm fascinated by when that integration of art and science disappeared in our
culture," says Gillespie. "Somewhere along the way the two got separated."

Gillespie grew up in Fort Worth, and that city's plethora of museums served as
her playground. And with a family evenly steeped in art and science (her
immediate family includes both engineers and art-makers), Gillespie found equal
inspiration in the dinosaur skeletons at Fort Worth Museum of Science and
History as she did in the masterpiece paintings at the Kimball Art Museum.

"At a science museum program when I was about 8, I got to hold an iguana in my
lap and I thought it was the coolest thing ever," Gillespie recalls with a
smile. But then art classes ignited her creativity as did the natural beauty of
the Fort Worth Botanic Garden.

She landed at UT after completing a bachelor of arts in biology with minors in
environmental studies and studio art at Austin College. And after finishing her
doctorate in 2011, Gillespie began blogging about the intersection of art and
biology, sussing out scientific art-makers and creative scientists, interviewing
them and publishing their work on biocreativity.wordpress.com, a blog she still
maintains.

"I think that scientists have a responsibility to let people know what they do -
and let people in on the fun of discovery," she says. "Otherwise, how will
people know about the importance of what scientists are doing? Scientists have
an obligation to be good communicators."

A year or so of organizing pop-up exhibits and programs (among other events she
staged was the "Art from Ashes" benefit for Bastrop fire relief) led to
Gillespie finding temporary space at Canopy last fall just in time for the East
Austin Studio Tour. That move became permanent not long ago when she signed a
lease, and fittingly on Earth Day, Gillespie celebrated the grand opening of her
gallery in its permanent space.

Couches in the gallery provide a place for visitors to peruse publications. A
small gift shop offers prints, postcards, original artwork and other artist-made
science merchandise.

And if most galleries stage the occasional artist talk, Gillespie fills her
calendar with informal courses for adults. This summer, she'll teach courses on
salamanders, general ecology and climate science. She'll give a free lecture on
the Barton Springs salamander on June 7.

"I want this to be a place for adults to learn about science," she says.
"There's a real hunger for science education, and there are current issues like
climate change that make understanding science more important than ever."

On Saturday, a group exhibition of salamander-inspired artwork opens by 22
artists from around the world. The show dovetails with the Partners in Amphibian
and Reptile Conservation designation of 2014 as the "Year of the Salamander,"
but it's also a tidy tie-in with the amphibian at the focus of her academic
research. And in a bit of scientific playfulness, thanks to her connections with
the city's captive breeding facility, scientists will bring some Barton Spring
salamanders to Saturday's exhibit opening for a public appearance.

(And as much as she loves them, Gillespie doesn't have a pet salamander. She and
her husband, psychiatrist Cole Weatherby, live in South Austin where they share
their home with cats - and a few pet golden topminnows, a fish common to East
Texas rivers.)

In September she has a "Women in Science" group show planned. (Gillespie's
portrait of animal scientist Jane Goodall was recently featured on Scientific
American's website.) And on Día de los Muertos and Halloween, she'll stage the
"Comparative Anatomy Skeleton Zoo" exhibit of anatomically correct skeletal
sculptures and calaveras.

"Art and science are symbiotic," says Gillespie. "Really, they always have
been."

Contact Jeanne Claire van Ryzin at 512-445-3699.

'Year of the Salamander'
  Opening reception: 7 to 11 p.m. Saturday. Exhibit continues through June 21.
  Gallery hours: Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesdays-Saturdays (Thursdays until 5:45 p.m.)
  Where: Art Science Gallery, Canopy arts complex, 916 Springdale Road,
Building 2
  Cost: Free
  Information: 512-522-8278; www.artsciencegallery.com
  "Texas Salamander Extravaganza"
  What: A free public lecture by artist, salamander researcher and Art Science
Gallery founder Hayley Gillespie
  When: 3 p.m. June 7
  Informal classes for adults:
  "Herptology 101: Salamanders," May 31-June 21
  "Ecology for Everyone," July 1-29
  "Climate Science 101," Aug. 5-26
  Cost: $80-$120
  More: For a slide show of art from Art Science Gallery, go to
www.austin360.com/arts.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

UT System's oil boom brings money, questions

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2549 words


MIDLAND - Day and night, for the better part of a month, the drilling rig grinds
away to bore a mile and a half deep and a similar distance horizontally into
oil-rich shale beneath the endlessly flat, endlessly scrubby West Texas terrain.
Once this well 55 miles southeast of Midland begins pumping, it is expected to
be productive for years to come.

The 217-foot-tall rig is one of dozens operating at any given moment these days
on the University of Texas System's vast land holdings. The system's 2.1 million
acres, three-fourths of them in an oil patch known as the Permian Basin, were a
gift from the state, an educational endowment established in the 1800s.

It's a gift that keeps on giving. Oil and natural gas production - which had
been petering out - has soared in recent years, thanks to advances in hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling that have unlocked resources once thought out
of reach. Annual royalty payments and other revenues from companies that lease
the UT System's mineral rights have increased 400 percent since 2006 to a record
$1.1 billion last year.

For all of the boom's benefits, it raises questions about the UT System's
oversight. The system's Board of Regents doled out $511.9 million more from the
Permanent University Fund in a four-year period than the board's own rules
permit, an analysis by the American-Statesman found. The fund holds oil and gas
proceeds and other assets for the benefit of UT System and Texas A&M University
System institutions.

What's more, a consulting firm concluded that the UT System's Midland-based
university lands office, which currently has 41 employees, faces "significant
core challenges" in overseeing the stepped-up oil and gas activity, including
"no engineering staff" and an awkward governance structure.

Environmental impacts - especially on water supplies and the aesthetics of these
wide-open spaces - are also getting more attention. And, although UT System
officials meet periodically with the holders of surface and mineral leases, they
haven't formally sought public input as they work to reorganize the operation
and management of a publicly owned resource worth many billions of dollars.

In addition, the boom has stirred concern about the future place on these lands
for ranchers who for generations have leased the surface of UT System lands to
graze cattle, sheep and goats. The new well sites, access roads and pits for
storing water used in drilling disrupt ranching operations and leave less space
for livestock.

"No question there's a great feeling of history and culture that those lands
represent and that we're going to protect," said UT System Regent Alex Cranberg,
chairman of the University Lands Advisory Board, which was established by the
regents in July. "I think this is an important opportunity for the university to
show leadership in how both the surface and subsurface are managed with best
practices, and to harness the intellectual power of UT and A&M. All those
questions need to be asked in a new and fresh fashion with each uptick in
activity and impact."

A $19.6 billion resource

The Statesman's analysis found that, as the flow of oil and gas revenue has
increased, the UT board has opened the spigot on the Permanent University Fund
wider than its rules allow and against the advice of its investment advisers. A
total of $2.9 billion has been allocated from 2012 to 2015, about 22 percent
more than would have been permitted by the regents' rules.

The rules don't have the force of law, and UT System officials say the board is
within its rights to override them. Regents say the higher payouts from the
permanent fund are justified by the increased oil and gas revenue, rising
estimates of mineral reserve values, a desire to minimize tuition increases at a
time of constrained legislative appropriations and the need for money to support
such initiatives as new medical schools in Austin and the Lower Rio Grande
Valley.

It's not as if the permanent fund is about to go broke. The fund's stocks,
bonds, gold bullion and other assets were valued at $17.4 billion at the end of
August. On the other hand, it takes a stout fund to help support 14 UT campuses,
seven A&M schools and six A&M agencies. And, as its name implies, the fund is
supposed to last forever.

Under the Texas Constitution, the UT System gets two-thirds of the fund's
proceeds for new buildings and other initiatives, while the A&M System gets
one-third.

To ensure the fund's purchasing power isn't eroded by inflation, the regents'
rules stipulate that either 4.75 percent or 5 percent of its average value
during the preceding 12 quarters "shall be" distributed in any given year. Such
payouts are typical for endowments and pension funds.

The Texas Constitution, which does have the force of law, has limited permanent
fund payouts to 7 percent under an amendment approved by voters in 1999. The
regents allocated that percentage for the first time when they authorized an
$877.4 million distribution for the fiscal year that ended Aug. 31.

UT-Austin and other beneficiaries of the fund welcome the higher proceeds. But
the nonprofit investment company that the regents established in 1996 to manage
the permanent fund and other higher education assets has counseled against such
largesse.

Bruce Zimmerman, CEO and chief investment officer for the University of Texas
Investment Management Co., told regents at a meeting in February that a strong
argument can be made for lowering payout percentages during flush times. That's
because the money distributed to the university systems will still be
substantial owing to the revenues that have swelled the fund.

By contrast, he said, a higher payout percentage would make more sense when
revenues decline, thus keeping the dollar amount of payouts stable.

"The West Texas lands were set up, and are set up constitutionally, to be a
revenue source into the endowment," Zimmerman told the regents, adding that the
amount of the revenue and the value of the lands shouldn't influence the payout
rate. "I am basing my view on the law and endowment principles."

Instead, the regents have taken the view that mineral reserves - oil and gas
still underground - should be considered when deciding how much to allocate from
the permanent fund. A report by Netherland, Sewell & Associates Inc., a
consulting firm, estimated the value of the reserves and future production at
$19.6 billion as of Aug. 31. That is double what the firm estimated a year
earlier, due mainly to drilling activity that firmed up additional reserves and,
to a modest degree, higher oil prices - which have since dipped.

"It is substantial," Cranberg said of the regents' allocations, "but it is
justified. The bulk of this money is going into long-term investments. For
example, we're building a new engineering building in Austin that is designed to
last 50 years. That building will last longer than some of these oil and gas
wells."

A â  fundamental shift'

When it comes to ranching on UT lands, Jimmy Sterling is a newcomer. He paid
$1.2 million to take over an 80,000-acre grazing lease in 2006 and $900,000 for
a 60,000-acre lease in 2012, both in Andrews County, which borders New Mexico.
In addition, he pays rent to the UT System according to a formula that factors
in the size of his herd and average market prices for livestock.

Since Sterling acquired the leases, oil and gas companies have drilled hundreds
of wells on the land.

"They told me that there might be wells drilled, but they never said there'd be
anything like this," Sterling said of UT System officials as he steered his
pickup around well sites, drilling-water storage ponds, tank batteries and pits
for excavating caliche to build access roads. "They bring in real big rigs, tear
up cattle guards that keep cows from getting onto the highways and leave debris
behind. Cattle will eat just about anything that's laying around."

The drilling leaves less space for grazing, which means Sterling can run fewer
cattle. And although his rent is lower as a result, Sterling said he has certain
fixed costs for employees, equipment and maintenance.

Despite the disruption, he has no regrets. "I want to ranch," Sterling said. "I
can't afford to go buy a ranch. I like the land, and for the most part it's been
pretty good dealing with the university lands people. I get along with them, and
we work together. I'd rather the oil field wasn't here, but money talks."

Joe Petersen, a senior range conservationist for the UT System, sympathizes with
ranchers. "No telling how many times we get a call from a rancher who says
somebody cut their fence and cattle got out," he said.

Petersen, two other range conservationists and five energy staffers must keep
track of about 320 oil and gas operators, 112 grazing lessees and several
hundred other surface lessees such as motels, service stations and even a
winery. By necessity, the UT System relies on ranchers to serve as unpaid eyes
and ears, Petersen said. As damage reports come in, officials work with oil and
gas operators to obtain compensation for ranchers.

When the UT regents established the University Lands Advisory Board, they
appointed five oil industry executives - including two who are also regents -
and one system executive, but no ranchers. Yet grazing has a longer history than
the oil industry on UT lands and is deeply embedded in the region's culture.
Some of the grazing leases have been held by the same families for more than 100
years.

Scott Kelley, the UT System's executive vice chancellor for business affairs,
said ranchers will always have a place on university lands. He said the advisory
board doesn't have a ranching representative because its charge is to focus on
oil and gas activity, which generated roughly 40 times as much revenue as leases
for grazing and other surface uses during the 2013-14 budget year.

"We've seen a fundamental shift with this new method of drilling," Kelley said.
"It became more like mining than exploration. The shale was there. It was about
how best to drill into these shale plays to extract the most product. The
expertise was sought around those areas where we thought it would have the
biggest bang for the buck. Our leases with ranchers will continue."

Although the advisory panel is playing an important rule - among other things,
interviewing candidates for a newly created position of chief executive officer
for university lands - its meetings and deliberations aren't open to public
scrutiny. Advisory panels aren't required to hold public meetings.

Kelley said public input isn't needed for what he described as management
responsibilities that fall to him and his staff, including the employees of the
Midland office. The new CEO would report to him.

Changes in order?

Hiring a CEO and expanding the Midland-based staff are among a laundry list of
recommendations by Opportune LLP, a Houston-based consultancy that the system
paid $743,714 to review its university lands unit and about $8.2 million more to
develop a comprehensive royalty reporting and accounting system, including
customized software.

Opportune's report on the lands unit didn't pull punches: "The organization has
no engineering staff, no one focused on analyzing geologic data for oil and gas
targeting purposes, minimal dedicated lease administration staff, no one
dedicated to business development and is dependent on the university system to
provide auditors, who may or may not have the necessary experience and industry
knowledge... and who do not have the time to follow up on audit
recommendations."

The report said salaries need to be boosted, noting that the Midland office has
lost a number of employees to better-paying industry jobs. Although beefing up
the staff would cost millions, the report said this expense would be
dramatically offset by the resulting ability to pursue revenue-enhancing
opportunities, such as retooling older leases with minimal or no production.

Under some of those older leases, the UT System gets a royalty of one-eighth of
the price the commodity fetches, in contrast with newer leases that pay a
one-fourth royalty.

Opportune also called for changes in the governance of university lands to
create a more nimble organization. Oversight is currently provided not only by
the UT System and its Board of Regents, but also by the Board for Lease of
University Lands, a four-member panel that ultimately signs off on all leasing.
The Board for Lease consists of two UT regents, one A&M regent and the state
land commissioner, who chairs the panel.

Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson described the university lands unit as
well-run and said any major changes in governance would require legislation.

"Maybe there's something that needs fixing," Patterson said. "I'd be more
comfortable fixing what we've got than coming up with something new and
different."

A call for conservation

Environmental activists say much needs fixing.

It's "incredible" that the UT System hasn't sought wide public input as it
"doubles down on fossil fuels" at a time of growing concern about the
contribution of such fuels to global warming, said Luke Metzger, director of
Environment Texas, a nonprofit advocacy group.

He said the system should be a leader in requiring drilling and production
methods that protect air quality and water supplies. System officials say they
have tightened some environmental standards attached to mineral leases but
acknowledge that more needs to be

done, especially to conserve water supplies in a semi-arid region.

It can take as much as 9 million gallons of water to drill and hydraulically
fracture, or "frack," a single well, and the need for more water recycling is
great, according to the Opportune report.

Drillers are already required to use brackish, or salty, water rather than
freshwater more suitable for household or municipal purposes, said Jim Benson,
the UT System's director of university lands. But he acknowledged that more
"produced water" - water that comes out of wells along with oil and gas - needs
to be recycled for drilling purposes rather than disposed of via deep-well
injection.

Benson said he can recall only two instances of freshwater contamination - both
affecting windmill-driven wells used for livestock - in his 28 years with the
system.

Addressing another concern, Benson said there has been no apparent uptick in
earthquakes on UT lands as fracking has expanded. In fracking, a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals is typically pumped down a well under pressure to
create fractures in rock that promote the flow of oil and gas.

Environmentalists want the UT System to prohibit the flaring, or burning off, of
natural gas, whose main component is methane, a potent contributor to climate
change. Flaring is sometimes done to get rid of natural gas from wells that
primarily produce oil.

Benson said most flaring is short-term, maybe lasting a month or so until a
pipeline can be connected to capture the natural gas.

"We work with the industry to try to reduce flaring," said Kelley. "We feel we
are extraordinarily good stewards of that land."

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz

at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

Expert reporting
  Ralph K.M. Haurwitz has covered the University of Texas and other public
universities since 2004, and he has written extensively about their governing
practices.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 9, 2014 Sunday
                                 State Edition

It's a wrap: Editorials Feb. 2-8

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 677 words


Sunday, Feb. 2

Mother Nature may cause ice storms, but it is our job to manage them. And on
Jan. 28, a flawed weather forecast and less than ideal regional coordination
made a bad situation worse for commuters, parents, students and public safety
officers in Central Texas.

As a community, we failed to manage the situation. There are lessons to learn.

We urge Austin and the other major regional partners to take a hard look at what
happened Jan. 28 and use it to develop a blueprint to ensure that even if Mother
Nature throws Central Texas another winter surprise, we are up to the challenge.

Monday, Feb. 3

In a Two Views commentary, Republican political consultant Matt Mackowiak and
Democratic consultant Jason Stanford debated income inequality and what to do
about it.

Tuesday, Feb. 4

Austinites are safe in the hands of Austin-Travis County EMS professionals. But
when a mechanical problem prevents an ambulance from reaching its destination,
the demanding job of these dedicated professionals becomes even more stressful
and an additional strain is placed on the entire emergency response system.

Currently, such "critical failures" en route to a destination are common among
the Austin-Travis County EMS ambulance fleet. It is a distressing reality, but
we are heartened to hear that efforts are underway to fix the situation.

Wednesday, Feb. 5

Austin is changing to a single-member district system in which 10 City Council
members will be elected this fall from districts and the mayor will be elected
at-large. We asked Terrell Blodgett, a professor emeritus in urban management
for the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, what the
mayor's role should be in a single-member district system.

Thursday, Feb. 6

It's been clear for some time that Austin can't easily or affordably part ways
with the coal-burning Fayette Power Plant. Now an Austin Energy analysis has
forced City Council members to acknowledge this hard reality: Selling or closing
down Austin's share of Fayette will raise electricity rates, and the rate
increase could be dramatic, anywhere from 5 percent to 25 percent.

Weaning Austin Energy off coal, a source of energy that contributes greatly to
air pollution and climate change, is a worthy goal. But Austin Energy's
ownership stake in the Fayette Power Plant complicates reaching the goal anytime
soon. Cutting ties with the Fayette Power Plant would cost Austin residents too
much. The right time for Austin to rid itself of Fayette will come, but later
rather than sooner.

Friday, Feb. 7

Amid threats of explosive toothpaste and protests over Russia's antigay
policies, it is easy to lose sight of the spirit of the Olympic Games.

Friday's opening ceremonies in Sochi should mark the triumphant optimism of
youth and celebration of elite athletic accomplishment. For the more than 6,000
competitors, this is the pinnacle of a lifetime of sweat and tears.

For Americans at home, the next 16 days are also an opportunity to get an
extended look at modern Russia and perhaps gain a more nuanced view of our
former Cold War rival. Granted the view will be largely through the lens of NBC
reporters and video editors, but that is more than many of us have seen of the
former Soviet republic in our entire lifetimes.

Saturday, Feb. 8

The National Registry of Exonerations released a new report Feb. 4 that tallied
an annual record 87 cases in 2013 of inmates being cleared of crimes they did
not commit. Texas led the year's list, with 13 exonerations in 2013.

The vast majority of people convicted of a crime are guilty; their convictions
are not in doubt. But the registry has tracked down 1,304 wrongful convictions
dating back to 1989, with 162 of the overall number of exonerations - 12.4
percent - coming from Texas. The police, prosecutors and courts that make up the
nation's criminal justice system have betrayed these defendants and forced them
into a nightmare. Every wrongful conviction undermines confidence in our justice
system.

Please visit statesman.com/opinion to read last week's complete editorials and
commentaries.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 8, 2014 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Austin Energy close to cheap solar deal

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 973 words


Austin Energy is poised to sign what could be the world's cheapest solar-power
deal.

The city-owned electric utility has agreed to terms with SunEdison to buy
electricity from two solar farms in West Texas, one a 350,000-panel,
100-megawatt facility, the other a nearby 150,000-panel, 50-megawatt neighbor.
The price is just below 5 cents per kilowatt-hour. That is far cheaper than
solar energy had generally been going for - and less than a third of the price
Austin Energy agreed to pay in 2009 for electricity from a much smaller solar
array just east of the city.

"It's the cheapest I've seen," said Raj Prabhu, the CEO of Mercom Capital Group,
an Austin-based energy consulting group that monitors the industry nationally.
He said he isn't familiar with the details but added, "This seems to be new
territory."

"It is certainly at the very low end of the prices I have seen," said Jurgen
Weiss, an energy economist with the Brattle Group, an international consulting
firm that advises the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. "As many had
predicted, we're entering a time in which, with some caveats, solar presents
quite an attractive alternative to conventional sources."

Austin Energy would not reveal where exactly the site is in West Texas, saying
the location has to be kept confidential for competitive reasons until the
contract is signed. The City Council is scheduled to vote March 20 on the
25-year contract, under which Austin Energy would pay up to $21 million per
year, depending on the plant's output. At peak output it could power about
14,000 homes.

Austin Energy is investing in solar energy, along with wind power, as part of an
overarching plan to reduce the city's carbon emissions, which most scientists
say contribute to global climate change. The wind deals have been intended
mainly to reduce Austin's use of a coal plant in Fayette County. Solar is
intended to help the utility handle the increasing strain that a growing
population puts on the grid during the peak-demand times of late afternoon and
early evening.

The SunEdison price is almost identical to what natural gas is selling for and
is cheaper when the cost of building a gas plant is taken into account. Solar is
still not an energy silver bullet because other supplies are needed when the sun
is not shining (at least until the invention of batteries capable of efficiently
storing enough electricity to power a city).

But one of the main knocks on solar, price, appears to have been alleviated, for
several reasons.

A federal tax credit turned what would have been about an
8-cent-per-kilowatt-hour price down to 5 cents, said Weiss, the energy
economist.

Austin was also among the only customers, if not the only customer, looking to
make a solar purchase of that scale, said Austin Energy General Manager Larry
Weis. And the utility has a strong credit rating and is a safe bet for a company
looking for investors.

"I think they're willing to take a haircut on price to have that steady income
coming from us," Weis said. He said prices probably won't fall much further in
the near future, partly because federal subsidies are scheduled to become less
generous in 2016.

He said the utility asked companies to submit proposals, and 30 or so came back
at prices near Sun-Edison's. Weis said that, although the technical limitations
of solar mean there are limits to how much the utility can use, "we got a very
good price... we were very pleased."

The project uses photovoltaic panels, according to Austin Energy, and is not
based on any game-changing new technologies.

Austin Energy predicts the solar deal will lower rates slightly - an assessment
that brought cheers from the environmental activists.

"At this price, it's a game changer, not just for Austin Energy but for the
future of electric generation in Texas," said Tom "Smitty" Smith, head of the
Texas chapter of Public Citizen, an environmental watchdog group. "No state has
more solar potential than Texas. Some states have places of more intense
sunlight, but Texas has vast areas of dry, arid desert that are perfect for
solar."

Even without the federal subsidy, the SunEdison price is lower than generally
seen in Germany, where the government has made massive solar investments. Only
some of the typically 13 cents-per-kilowatt-hour price in Germany can be
attributed to higher labor costs and land availability, said Weiss, the
economist.

Even the U.S. Energy Department had predicted that solar prices would not drop
to 6 cents per kilowatt-hour until 2020. There has been a well-documented drop
in solar prices in recent years, mainly because silicon prices are relatively
low and Chinese panel prices dropped. Weiss said much of the drop is also due to
more efficient use of the technology. Panels are roughly 30 percent of the cost,
and Weiss said factors such as lack of competition and laws in need of tweaking
had held the industry back. The ­SunEdison deal, he said, "is probably a
reflection that the industry is becoming more mature in the

United States."

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

By the numbers
  Austin Energy projects that the 30-year, "all-in" cost of wind and solar will
 be cheaper than even natural gas, though the utility emphasizes projections
aren't always right. Prices below are cents per kilowatt-hour:
  2.8 to 3.8 cents: Wind contract signed last month for 300-megawatt wind farm
north of Lubbock*
  4.5 to 5.5 cents: Proposed solar contract for 150-megawatt array*
  7 cents: Natural gas
  9 to 16 cents:
  Wood-waste plant
  that started operating in 2012*
  10 cents: Coal
  13 cents: Nuclear power
  16.5 cents: Solar array approved in 2009 in Webberville
  Source: Austin Energy
  *Austin Energy doesn't release the exact per-kilowatt-hour price, saying
competitors could use the information against the utility when bidding for
future sources of electricity.





LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Energy target may cost $1 billion

BYLINE: Lilly Rockwell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 733 words


If Austin Energy pursues the goal of going greenhouse gas emission-free by 2030,
it could cost the utility nearly $1 billion over 10 years, causing utility bills
to increase far above 2 percent a year, utility officials warned Wednesday.

As soon as two years from now, Austin Energy customers could see their utility
fuel costs increase from investing more heavily in renewable energy, executives
with the municipal-owned utility told the Austin City Council.

The utility's cost estimates are part of an ongoing campaign by Austin Energy to
convince the council that shutting down its natural gas- and coal-powered plants
within the next 15 years would be calamitous for ratepayers. The council has set
a goal of no annual utility bill increases over 2 percent, a benchmark supported
by large industrial customers represented by a group called the Coalition for
Clean Affordable Reliable Energy.

For the first time, the utility also offered Wednesday an alternative plan that
would involve building a new gas plant at Decker while still investing more
heavily in solar and wind energy with the goal of going carbon-free by 2050.

Last month, the City Council approved an ambitious plan to invest more heavily
in renewable energy - particularly solar power - with the goal of shutting down
any plants that produce carbon dioxide, which most scientists believe is a key
contributor to climate change.

Instead, the utility would generate power from nuclear plants, wind and solar
farms.

This new policy was prompted by a report issued by a citizen task force in July
that suggested ways the utility could invest more aggressively in renewable
energy. The authors say their estimates - largely based on the assumption that
gas prices will rise in the future - prove that renewable energy is not only
better for the environment, but cheaper.

But Austin Energy disagreed, saying that rates would skyrocket because it would
remove the utility's ability to use "dispatchable" energy from gas and coal
plants when the wind isn't blowing or the sun isn't shining. That means a
greater reliance on market prices from the statewide grid.

In the utility's plan, Austin Energy said it would retire the Fayette
coal-burning plant and the Decker gas plant, but would keep the newer Sand Hill
gas plant and only retire it "when economical." Austin Energy also wants to
build a new gas plant at Decker and add additional solar and wind power.

This scenario is also less costly, argued Khalil Shalabi, Austin Energy's vice
president of energy market operations and resource planning. It would cost the
utility nearly $100 million over 10 years and wouldn't conflict with the
council's 2 percent "affordability" goal, he said.

All of the utility's estimates on impacts to ratepayers are based on a number of
assumptions, ranging from the price of gas to the amount of energy consumed.
Executives acknowledged it all boils down to a guess.

"It's just a forecast," Shalabi said.

Despite butting heads on whether renewable energy would help or hurt ratepayers,
some renewable energy advocates declared victory Wednesday, saying that Austin
Energy's proposal is a step in the right direction.

"They did not contemplate any increase in renewables in the next 10 years
(before)," said Michael Osborne, the chair of the Austin Generation Resource
Planning Task Force and a member of the Electric Utility Commission. On
Wednesday, "I heard a different story," he said.

City Council Member Chris Riley indicated that, even though the council set its
2030 carbon-free goal, there was room for negotiation.

"We recognize there are limits to what we may be able to achieve within our
affordability goals," Riley said. "I'm glad to see the utility stepping forward
to say we can do better. There's room for further conversation."

The City Council had previously set a goal of having 35 percent of Austin
Energy's generated power come from renewable energy by 2020. Austin Energy is on
track to exceed that goal, and that is why the council wanted to set a new
benchmark.

Contact Lilly Rockwell

at 512-445-3762.

The story so far
  In July, an advisory group called for Austin Energy to become 100 percent
carbon-emission free by 2030. The utility said that goal - which would involve
shuttering all of the utility's gas- and coal-powered plants - would be an
"economic disaster for ratepayers." The City Council adopted the carbon-free
goal on Aug. 28.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 24, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Environmentalists launch City Council election website

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 648 words


Last week, with little fanfare, an online Austin environmental newsletter
published a comprehensive look at Austin's myriad candidates for City Council
and mayor.

The Austin EcoNetwork focused on the environmental positions of Austin's 78
candidates.

Undergirding the effort, said Austin EcoNetwork founder Brandi Clark Burton, was
the concern that the Austin City Council maintains its environmentally minded
direction at a moment of political upheaval, as the City Council shifts from
seven at-large officers to a 10-1 setup, with 10 council members elected from
geographic districts and an at-large mayor.

"We're interested in making sure the people being elected have a good sense of
the big picture and sustainability," she said.

Otherwise, she said, "the environment could lose out."

That's the kind of anxiety plaguing entrenched interests as Austin plots a
fundamental shift.

For years, those interests, centered on the voting-rich areas of Central Austin,
dominated the political discussion. But now the city's power brokers - including
the environmentalist lobby - face some uncertainty, and with it anxiety.

"My father used to say that the most stressful time for a family is when someone
comes into family - through a birth or a marriage - or someone leaves a family -
through death or divorce," said Austin political consultant Mark Littlefield,
who is not employed by any of the candidates.

Following the election, "our family will have 11 new members. Whether you're a
business leader, a neighborhood leader or an environmental leader, there's a lot
of anxiety. You're accustomed to doing things a certain way, and for better or
worse, all we know is it's going to be different."

Burton says she has spent at least $20,000 on the project, with the chief
expenses being Web programming, video production, graphic design and other staff
time.

The Election Navigator, as it's called, makes public the candidates' answers to
questionnaires from Clean Water Action, Sierra Club, Clean Energy for Austin,
and Austin Environmental Democrats. Publishing them "gives us the potential to
use them as an accountability tool," she said.

The questions include ones about the candidates' positions on climate change;
challenges facing Austin Energy; and the future of water supplies.

Some environmentalists say the geographic splintering of the City Council
presents an opportunity - not a threat - for a movement most heavily associated
locally with the protection of Barton Springs.

"These are very exciting opportunities to engage in a meaningful way in parts of
town you ­haven't before," said Roy Waley, vice chairman of the Austin chapter
of the Sierra Club.

"We've long been thought of as the 'white West Austin water group.' But we've
been concerned about all sorts of issues and this is a huge opportunity for us
to become educated on district issues," Waley said.

The election is testing environmental groups in one other way: mayoral
endorsements. With their membership divided, Austin Environmental Democrats and
the Sierra Club have been unable to rally behind a single one of the top three
candidates. While a nonendorsement risks making the environmental organizations
appear ineffectual or unnecessary in key local political matters, Waley said the
inability of Sierra Club to endorse on the mayoral race suggests the evenness of
the candidates - and that the 10-1 system makes the council makeup that much
more important.

Waley said his group will try again on Friday to make a decision.

Election Day is Nov. 4. Early voting runs through Oct. 31.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

WE'VE GOT
  YOU COVERED
  Get coverage on state and local campaigns at statesman.com/elections.
  Check out our searchable database of the 78 candidates for Austin City
Council and mayor at statesman.com/councilbios.
  Read up on the urban rail proposition
  at statesman.com
  /urban-rail.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Martinez: Adler tied to Koch brothers

BYLINE: Sarah Coppola American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 718 words


Standing in front of Austin's iconic swimming hole Wednesday, mayoral candidate
Mike Martinez criticized opponent Steve Adler's environmental credentials and
said Adler has ties to conservative activists.

He accused Adler's law firm, Barron & Adler, of representing Koch Industries - a
corporation owned by billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, who have spent
millions on conservative causes. Martinez said the website FindLaw.com listed
Koch Industries as an Adler client until just a few days before the Nov. 4
general election.

"The Koch brothers have poured money into groups that deny climate change. The
Kochs have funded organizations that fight against a woman's right to equal pay
for equal work, and attack marriage equality," said Martinez, an Austin City
Council member, at a news conference at Barton Springs Pool.

"They spent vast amounts of money to defeat Wendy Davis and Barack Obama, and
are one of the largest environmental polluters in the country.... These are the
people Steve Adler's law firm chose to do business with."

Adler fired back, saying Martinez's allegation was "false" and "desperate."

He said that, as an eminent-domain lawyer, he's never represented Koch
Industries or the Koch brothers. To the contrary, he said he recently
represented an Austin family in a case against a Koch subsidiary that was trying
to condemn the family's land for a pipeline.

One of Adler's law partners represented Koch Industries about 30 years ago, but
Adler was still a law student at the time and wasn't involved in the case, he
said. He added that he recently realized the FindLaw page was out-of-date for
decades and he called FindLaw and asked the company to update it.

A spokesman for Koch Industries said Wednesday: "Koch has used Mr. Adler's law
firm in the past, but Mr. Adler himself has never been engaged by Koch nor ever
represented the company."

Martinez and Adler will face each other in a Dec. 16 runoff. Martinez captured
30 percent in the Nov. 4 general election, while Adler received 37 percent.

Martinez focused on environmental issues Wednesday as both campaigns are
sharpening their messages to highlight differences and try to persuade voters to
show up and cast ballots for a second-round fight.

The political committee for Austin's Sierra Club chapter is not excited about
either candidate and has - so far - declined to make an endorsement.

Roy Waley, the group's conservation chairman, said each candidate has some good
and bad environmental points: Martinez has supported policies related to
renewable energy, but he also voted for a $500 million-plus water treatment
plant that environmentalists say isn't needed.

In his work as an attorney, Adler represented a few clients against Austin's
landmark Save Our Springs Ordinance, but he also worked on keeping a toxic El
Paso smelting plant shut down in his role as chief of staff to a state senator,
Waley said.

Austin attorney Brad Rockwell said at the

Martinez event Wednesday that Adler once opposed efforts to "stop (a) company
from dumping petrochemicals directly into the Barton Springs Pool aquifer."

Rockwell was referring to a lawsuit that unfolded about a decade ago over
whether Lowe's could complete a big new store over environmentally sensitive
land. After construction was underway, an engineer was hired to assess the
construction site. She found that fuel oil was leaking onto the ground and that
those pollutants were being washed into a recharge feature - and into the
Edwards Aquifer - during a rain event, said Rockwell, who at the time was deputy
director for the Save Our Springs Alliance.

Opponents of the store sought an injunction to halt construction. As an attorney
for Lowe's, Adler argued against the injunction, saying the property was not
subject to the Save Our Springs Ordinance. Ultimately, the case resulted in a
settlement: Lowe's could build the store, but the retailer and the cities of
Austin and Sunset Valley had to contribute about $2 million to buy and protect
other open space over the aquifer, Adler said.

Adler said he was brought in during the case's final months to help the
entrenched parties achieve a fair outcome. "I felt it was an opportunity to
resolve the lawsuit in a way that could help the aquifer," he said.

Contact Sarah Coppola

at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @Sarah_Coppola

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 5, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Austin Energy's plan for power supplies earns broader support

BYLINE: Lilly Rockwell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 366 words


After months of negotiations, Austin Energy has come up with a new 10-year power
generation plan that appeases environmental groups and ratepayer advocates
alike.

At a Thursday meeting of the Council Committee on Austin Energy, utility
executives pitched a new plan that aims for 55 percent of its power generation
coming from renewables by 2025, up from the 50 percent proposed in October. It
wasn't immediately clear what this meant for a previously approved City Council
goal of going carbon dioxide-emission free by 2030.

The new plan, which a council majority appeared to embrace, includes shutting
down the coal-powered Fayette plant as early as 2022, building a new gas plant
and buying an additional 500 megawatts of solar energy.

"This is a very, very progressive and aggressive plan," Austin Energy vice
president of energy market operations and resource planning Khalil Shalabi
assured the City Council. The utility said it exceeds any state goals and or
ones set by European countries that have embraced alternative energy, such as
Germany and Sweden.

As before, Austin Energy executives contend they can pull this off and keep
costs from rising less than an average of 2 percent a year, as city policy
requires.

In September the City Council adopted aggressive goals that would have required
Austin Energy to become carbon-dioxide emission free by 2030. This goal was
supported by groups such as the Sierra Club and Beyond Coal.

But Austin Energy and a group that advocates for large ratepayers pushed against
this policy, saying it would be too expensive and cause rates to spike.
Environmental groups countered that it's cheaper to use more renewable energy.

The Sierra Club issued a statement Thursday applauding these new goals, calling
it a "historic commitment" to renewable energy.

And while the council mostly heard positive feedback, Tom "Smitty" Smith, with
Public Citizen, spoke against the push to build a new gas plant, saying gas in
the future could be expensive and gas generation emits both carbon dioxide and
methane, which are considered contributors to climate change.

The Austin City Council will vote on this plan at its Dec. 11 meeting.

Contact Lilly Rockwell

at 512-445-3762.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 7, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Lagging in cash, polls, Davis seeks 'unlikely' voters

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 806 words


Attorney General Greg Abbott heads into the final month of the gubernatorial
campaign with a comfortable lead in the polls and a 5-to-1 cash advantage over
state Sen. Wendy Davis.

According to fundraising numbers due Monday with the Texas Ethics Commission,
Abbott had $30.1 million in cash on hand to Davis' $5.7 million.

"That's not enough to compete head-to-head with Greg Abbott during the final
four weeks of the campaign," said Rice University political scientist Mark
Jones. "Greg Abbott is going to be omnipresent between now and Nov. 4 and Wendy
Davis is going to be less present."

Davis didn't lag far behind Abbott in fundraising for the reporting period from
July 1 to Sept. 25. Her campaign committee, and a combined effort with
Battleground Texas, raised a total of $6.8 million compared with $7.8 million
raised by the Abbott campaign for the same period of time. Abbott simply started
out so far ahead of Davis, with more than $20 million already in the bank when
Davis delivered the 2013 Senate abortion filibuster that vaulted her into
serious consideration as a potential gubernatorial candidate.

Davis enters the final sprint running against both Abbott and history. Her
relative fundraising success - she tapped an unprecedentedly large donor base -
and national profile had excited Democratic hopes that she might accelerate the
long-term timetable for turning Texas blue. But recent polls indicate she is
still running well behind Abbott, by 9 percentage points - 49 to 40 percent - in
the Texas Lyceum Poll released last week, and by 14 percentage points - 54 to 40
percent - in a CBS/New York Times YouGov poll, released Monday.

Four years ago, Gov. Rick Perry defeated former Houston Mayor Bill White by
nearly 13 percentage points, and a failure to at least improve on White's
performance would be dispiriting for Texas Democrats in their effort to
transform a state that hasn't elected a Democrat statewide since 1994 - and
would likely discourage Hillary Clinton or another Democratic presidential
candidate from investing in the state in 2016.

Smith said the good news for Davis is that she is already known by virtually 100
percent of the electorate, so the impact of TV advertising is less profound than
if she were less well-known. The CBS/New York Times poll - a survey of 4,177
likely voters conducted Sept. 20 to Oct. 1 with a margin of error of 2.2 percent
- found that 69 percent of voters had a seen a Davis ad, and 71 percent an
Abbott ad.

The bad news for Davis is that same poll confirms what other surveys have found:
Davis is not particularly well-liked, with 38 percent of voters viewing her
favorably - compared with 51 percent who viewed both Abbott and Sen. Ted Cruz
positively - and 49 percent who had a positive opinion about Perry.

In an interview with the American-Statesman Editorial Board on Monday, Davis
said the excitement she has encountered on the hustings - especially from
younger people - suggests there could be a surprising outcome in November, and
that she is relying on the ground effort put together by field organizers for
Battleground Texas to bring "unlikely voters" out in unaccustomed numbers for an
off-year election.

"That's really not going to be known until Election Day," she said, noting that
her campaign had the formidable task of having to "address the structural
deficit Democrats have built over 20 years" of losing and neglect in Texas.

Monday was the last day for voter registration.

Davis said her campaign's last internal poll showed her 7 percentage points
back. She said in January that internal polls had her 23 percentage points
behind. She said she was surprised and disappointed that she was still running
behind among female voters, but, "I'm hopeful that in the next four weeks we'll
be able to close that gap, particularly with single women"

Asked in her interview with the Editorial Board how she would avoid the gridlock
of Washington if elected governor, Davis pointed to the leadership of House
Speaker Joe Straus, a Republican, as a model she would emulate.

"Speaker Straus has shown that he runs his House in a way that creates a climate
of a competition of ideas, a welcome climate for that, and a respect for varying
perspectives, until people are able to come to a table and find a place that
they can agree," Davis said.

On a less conciliatory note, Davis said, "The most important job this next
governor will have will be looking at 14 years of Rick Perry appointments and
determining what to do about making necessary changes.

"We need a lot of housecleaning in this state - housecleaning that will reflect
the real interests and needs of the people who live and work in this state and
pay the costs of these decisions that are being made by these agencies and who
deserve to have their voices at the table."

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 11, 2014 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Protect seismologist from politics

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 815 words


Science may not hold all the answers to modern-day problems, but it's a solid
starting point, especially for regulatory agencies.

We applaud the state Railroad Commission's decision this week to conduct a
national search to hire a seismologist to evaluate whether oil and gas activity
is causing a recent spike in earthquakes in North Texas. We hope that the
position will be filled quickly and the in-house scientist will be given the
latitude to report the facts, even if they fly in the face of powerful oil and
gas interests and political preferences.

The decision, championed by Commissioner David Porter, comes on the heels of a
frustrating Jan. 2 public meeting in Azle that drew 800 people in a town of only
about 11,000. Porter and commission staff heard an earful from residents who
wanted answers about the unusual seismic activity in the area. Despite its name,
the Railroad Commission of Texas is the regulatory agency for the oil and gas
industry and is responsible for issuing permits for new drilling sites and the
accompanying injection disposal wells.

According to news reports, there have been about 30 quakes near Azle (about 20
miles northwest of Fort Worth) since Nov. 1. While none has resulted in major
damage or injuries, residents report damaged foundations, broken pipes,
disrupted sleep and frazzled nerves. Most residents, including Azle Mayor Alan
Brundrett, are convinced that the culprit is natural gas production in the
Barnett Shale using hydraulic fracturing, which involves injecting large amounts
of water at high pressure into the ground and then disposing of the wastewater
underground.

Despite a number of studies that suggest there is, in fact, a link between
disposal wells and earthquakes, the commission has largely refrained from
comment on the subject.

According to the commission's website: "Seismic waves are continuously
traversing the earth's crust due to both natural causes and human activity.
Texas has a long history of safe injection, and staff has not identified a
significant correlation between faulting and injection practices."

The Railroad Commission may not have data, but plenty of scientists do.

In fact, earthquake researchers have known since the 1940s and the construction
of the Hoover Dam that human activities can cause earthquakes. More recently,
the University of Texas at Austin and Southern Methodist University have studied
seismic activity in North Texas, including the identification of a well near
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport that was believed to be a "plausible
cause" of a rash of quakes in 2008 and 2009. According to news reports, the
quakes ended after the injection well stopped operating in August 2009. (Despite
common misconception, the correlation is with the disposal wells, not the actual
drilling or fracking, according to UT's Cliff Frohlich, associate director of
the Institute for Geophysics.)

The Jan. 2 meeting was originally met with some optimism by residents that the
wall of silence on the subject by the Railroad Commission was finally about to
break. But a last-minute format change turned the forum into a "listening"
session, with very limited exchange between the community and the commission.

The subsequent hiring of a seismologist suggests that Porter and others gave
serious weight to the community's concerns. For an agency that has declined to
even discuss publicly the possibility of a connection between gas activities and
earthquakes, the hiring of an in-house scientist to look at the evidence is a
huge step forward.

Scientific discovery at its best is an objective pursuit. Even Porter's
statement on the hiring of the seismologist states: "It is imperative that the
Commission remain engaged and involved in gathering more evidence and data into
any possible causation between oil and gas activities and seismic events.
Commission rules and regulations must be based on sound science and proven
facts."

However, the reality in Texas is that there are occasions when politics creep
into the scientific process and place undue influence on well-meaning scientists
or color the interpretation of findings that would normally be clear-cut.

One example was at the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality in 2011. A Rice
University professor drew headlines by accusing the commission of systematically
deleting all references to climate change and sea-level rise in a report he
wrote for the agency.

The Railroad Commission should take care that no such accusations can be leveled
against its in-house seismologist, and it should craft the position so that he
or she will be shielded from both politics and corporate influence.

That's the sort of transparency the residents of Azle and other drilling
communities will need in order to know that state regulators are truly looking
out for their welfare. And it is the obligation of the commission to protect the
public's interests.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 18, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

DPS delays service pistol switch

BYLINE: Tim Eaton American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 525 words


The Texas Department of Public Safety has suspended plans to train with a new
model of handgun issued to some troopers.

The Smith & Wesson M&P 9 mm sidearm, which was set to replace the
bigger.357-caliber SIG Sauer as the official-issue service pistol for troopers,
experienced problems that led to the decision, DPS spokesman Tom Vinger said
Thursday. The department is doing additional testing and will further evaluate
the handgun.

"The DPS suspended plans to train with and issue the handgun to the current
trooper trainee class, after minor concerns were raised when firearms training
began during trooper training," Vinger said in a statement. "Because of the
condensed time frame of the recruit class, and the need to gather more
information, trooper trainees in this class are using the standard issue Sig
Sauer handgun."

Specifically, a couple of Smith & Wesson handguns experienced sight movement of
less than 10 microns, (a micron equals one-millionth of a meter) after repeated
firing of about 3,000 rounds. Also, some weapons may have had problems feeding
and ejecting shells, Vinger said.

The change didn't cost the department, as it swapped 120 Smith & Wessons for 120
SIG Sauers, Vinger said.

The original plan was for the 9 mm pistols to be issued to recruits starting
this year. Current officers were allowed to continue carrying their SIG Sauer
pistols, but the department anticipated expanding the availability of the Smith
& Wesson 9 mm. In all, the Texas Highway Patrol has about 2,900 commissioned
officers in its ranks.

Vinger previously said the Smith & Wesson pistol and its ammunition will cost
the state less, even though that "was not a factor in the decision."

Highway Patrol Sgt. Gary Chandler, president of the Department of Public Safety
Officers Association, has been part of several introductions of new weapons over
his 33-year career with the department, and he said he doesn't expect the Smith
& Wesson issue to be a major problem for troopers.

"I always felt confident that the Department of Public Safety would issue me a
weapon that is competent to carry out the task at hand," he said.

Chandler said whenever a new weapon is introduced, not all troopers agree on its
merits. The move to the Smith & Wesson, first reported by the American-Statesman
in December, was privately met with disapproval by some troopers.

The Smith & Wesson M&P 9mm sidearm has been the subject of many Web postings on
online law enforcement message boards. Largely, officers have praised the weapon
for its accuracy, smooth action and light recoil.

But others have complained that it rusts easily in certain climates and has a
propensity to jam.

According to the manufacturers' websites, the Smith & Wesson handgun can carry
17 rounds plus one in the pipe, while the SIG Sauer carries up to 15 rounds. The
Smith & Wesson weighs 24 ounces compared with 34 ounces for the SIG Sauer.

Officials said the change to the Smith & Wesson - before the suspension - was
the first since about 2003, when the current SIG Sauer model was adopted.

Smith & Wesson's media relations office didn't respond to a request for comment.

Contact Tim Eaton

at 512-445-3631.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 28, 2014 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Democrats' convention cry: 'This is our Texas'

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 841 words


DALLAS - Texas Democrats presented themselves Friday as the true keepers of
Texas values and a mainstream alternative to a Republican Party they say is led
by self-dealing "insiders" tugged to the fringe by the "crazies" in their tea
party base.

"I'm running because there's a moderate ­majority that's being ignored -
commonsense, practical, hardworking Texans whose ­voices are being drowned out
by insiders in Greg Abbott's party, and it needs to stop," said state Sen. Wendy
Davis, who is running against Republican state Attorney General Greg Abbott for
governor. Davis delivered the ­culminating speech of the first day of the
two-day Texas Democratic State Convention Friday night.

"And so I have to laugh when I hear Mr. Abbott lay claim to Texas values," Davis
said. "My values are my grandma's values, and they're the values of every
hardworking Texan that I know."

For the nearly 6,000 delegates, alternates and guests in attendance at the
Dallas Convention Center, the gathering was a chance to rev their engines, see
their statewide candidates up close and get their marching orders for the coming
four months.

The convention comes three weeks after Republicans held their state convention
in Fort Worth, and the clear message out of Dallas is that those folks who
gathered over in Tarrant County were irrational.

"The bizarre, extremist tea party has essentially taken over the Republican
Party," Democratic Party Chairman Gilberto Hinojosa said. "The tea party may
have problems in Mississippi and other parts of the country, but they are
growing in strength in the state of Texas."

The Republican platform, he said, called for repealing the minimum wage,
spending less on education, ignoring climate change, denying women the right to
abortion and endorsing so-called reparative or conversion therapy, which claims
to be able to change the sexual orientation of gay people.

Mocking that last plank, Hinojosa suggested Democrats might want to add a plank
to their platform Saturday providing "reparative therapy for tea party folks so
they can understand we live in the year 2014, not in 1950, that we live in the
United States of America, that we are a loving, caring people who take care of
our neighbors and that there is this thing called science."

Talking to reporters, Hinojosa dismissed polls indicating that the statewide
ticket led by Davis and state Sen. Leticia Van de Putte, who is running for
lieutenant governor, hasn't yet gained traction in polls.

Right now, he said, "only y'all and us are paying attention to politics."

And Hinojosa said of those surveys: "If they're showing Dan Patrick that far
ahead of Leticia, the polls can't be right."

"Strange man," Hinojosa said of Patrick.

Van de Putte, who entered the hall to Aretha Franklin's "Respect," recalled for
the convention the advice Lt. Gov. Bob Bullock gave her when she was first
elected to the Texas House.

"He said he'd messed up several marriages, his liver, his lungs and some of his
longtime friendships," Van de Putte said. But, she said, Bullock added: "I know
one thing - you take care of Texas, and you put her first, all the rest will
work out."

"Now Bob Bullock was a lieutenant governor. And I have a message for Dan
Patrick. I knew Bob Bullock. Bob Bullock was a friend of mine, and Dan, you are
no Bob Bullock," Van de Putte said. "His idea of the Legislature is hellbent on
Washington, D.C.-style, finger-pointing, ­partisan bickering and blame games."

"Texans deserve a lieutenant governor who will listen, problem solve and work
across the aisle to put Texas first," Van de Putte said.

"I ain't no pushover. I ain't no East Coast Liberal. I ain't no West Coast
Democrat," said Van de Putte, building to a crescendo greeted by standing cheers
and chants. "This grandma's name is Leticia San Miguel Van de Putte from the
barrio, and I am a Tejana. I am a Texas Democrat. This is my Texas. This is my
children's Texas, and this is my grandchildren's Texas. This is our Texas."

On looks alone, the scene at the Dallas Convention Center was entirely different
than that at the Republican gathering in Fort Worth, which was an overwhelmingly
Anglo affair.

"The face of Texas looks like you," U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio,
told the convention.

"The future is at our fingertips," said state Rep. Trey Martinez Fischer,
suggesting that GOP could be updated from Grand Old Party to Gringos y Otros
Pendejos. "Otros pendejos" roughly translates into "other dumb asses."

Hours earlier, at the end of his remarks to the Asian Caucus, Hinojosa beseeched
delegates to work their hearts out to expand turnout among Democratic voters.

If they did, he said, they would be able to collapse into their chairs at home
on election night, grab a sandwich, flip on Fox News and see an ashen Sean
Hannity deliver the "very, very bad news - in the state of Texas, Democrats just
elected an attorney general, a lieutenant governor and a governor. Texas is no
longer a red state, it's blue state. It's all over for the Republican Party."

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

How to rock fusion tacos at home

BYLINE: Addie Broyles American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1850 words


We tend to snub our noses at the word "fusion" when it comes to food.

After two decades of chefs mashing up every cuisine imaginable to create one too
many fried wonton-topped chicken salads, the food professionals who wanted to be
taken seriously backed away from using the "f" world.

But that doesn't mean they stopped blending cuisines. The truth is, even the
most "authentic" foods are the result of mashing up one food culture with
another, says David Joachim, the prolific cookbook author whose newest book, "
Global Cooking," explores international cuisines from Chile to China.

Now, instead of calling it fusion, we're calling it "global food," Joachim says.

You'll see lots of "global tacos" at Saturday's Rock Your Taco competition, one
of the signature events of this week's Austin Food & Wine Festival, now in its
third year. Tyson Cole will defend his back-to-back titles with a taco that will
surely feel like a dish he could serve at his famed sushi restaurant, Uchi.

Other competitors include chefs David Bull, who last year served a banh mi taco,
and Bryce Gilmore, who used a lightly dried slice of beet instead of a tortilla
for his entry in 2013.

You can find fusion tacos all over the city, even when it's not festival
weekend. Food trucks Chi'lantro and Peached Tortillas serve some of Austin's
best-known nontraditional tacos, and many places have traditional tacos with an
Austin spin on their menus. At East Side King on South Lamar, the butter-poached
octopus in a crispy shell - called a tako taco, based on the Japanese name for
octopus - has become a signature dish. Turf N' Surf Po-Boy will serve any of its
dishes in a tortilla instead of bread, including the fried pork chop or
buffalo-style chicken, and more than a handful of establishments, including the
ubiquitous Torchy's Tacos, serve brisket tacos.

So why are tacos, which we think of as Mexican even though many Central and
South American countries also serve them, so frequently fused with other
cuisines?

"Tacos are an interesting case study in global cuisine because every culture has
some sort of bread wrapped around food," Joachim says. Tortillas aren't that
different than pita, which is just a stone's throw from flatbread. When people
move from one place to another, even one continent to another, they continue to
cook the foods of their homeland but start to incorporate some new techniques
and ingredients. Over generations, these small changes become widespread, and
suddenly no one remembers an Italy in which there was no tomato sauce.

Take tacos al pastor, Joachim says, which is actually a descendant of the Middle
Eastern gyro. A wave of immigrants from Iraq and Lebanon moved to Mexico in the
first part of the 20th century, and before long, they weren't putting the meat
sliced from an upright pit into pitas but into corn tortillas instead.

Americans are cooking more globally than they ever have before, either fused
with foods they already know or recreating dishes they've tried elsewhere,
Joachim says.

"There's so much flavor available now, thanks in part to the global economy and
the skyrocketing interest in food, plus the changes in immigration in our
country," Joachim says. "There's just so much available in mainstream markets
that many (cooks) might not have been aware of even 10 years ago."

And he's not just talking about sriracha: In urban areas, it's easy to find
chili pastes from India, Africa and Asia, or spices like cardamom, turmeric and
exotic peppercorns. As soon as you have access to an ingredient like lemongrass,
Joachim says, you have access to the flavor of an entirely new cuisine that you
previously couldn't prepare at home.

But don't expect your dish to taste exactly the same as the street food you had
in Thailand. "You're making concessions any time you cook outside the home
country because the ingredients are slightly different," he says.

The quest for authenticity, though noble, is almost always quixotic because
"authentic" only exists in the minds of those seeking a singular beginning.
Food, however, is a collective, collaborative experience. "You have to look at
cuisine as a flowing river of flavor with different tributaries coming in,"
Joachim says. "Over the course of history, that river is always changing."

In his book, the most "authentic" taco recipe is one with potatoes, poblanos and
chorizo on a corn tortilla, but he also shares an unexpected mash-up of
cuisines: a fiery Kung Pao chicken taco seasoned with sambal, an Indonesian
chile paste.

The book also features a recipe for Joachim's spin on what has become a Los
Angeles classic: the bulgogi Korean taco. Traditional bulgogi is beef that has
been marinated and grilled and is often wrapped in large lettuce leaves. Serve
it in a tortilla instead, and you have one of the hottest food truck trends of
the past decade.

That taco is an excellent example of just how simple fusion can be. To explain,
Joachim breaks a taco into its core building blocks: a tortilla, meat (or other
protein), something crunchy and something tangy or vinegary. Change just one of
those elements to incorporate an unexpected flavor or texture - kimchi instead
of lettuce, raita or chutney instead of salsa, smoked pork instead of stewed -
and you're on your way to fusion taco nirvana.

These are building blocks that cooks can play around with, but the key is not
overdoing it because swapping out too many familiar elements takes away from the
"taco-ness" of the taco, Joachim says.

So, where is the line between a taco and a wrap? It gets more blurry by the
week, Joachim says. At a youth sporting event recently, he came across a
"walking taco," a small bag of tortilla chips topped with chili, a spin on the
Frito-pie-in-a-bag that Texans know well. "That's not even a wrapped food but
they call it a taco," he says.

Contact Addie Broyles at 512-912-2504.

Twitter: @broylesa

Kung Pao Chicken Tacos
  These days, it seems like anything can be wrapped in a tortilla. Why not
spicy, sweet, salty Kung Pao chicken? If you can get a hold of some Sichuan
peppercorns, toss a tablespoon or two into the wok along with the chicken for a
 tongue-numbing flavor buzz. That will give the tacos the flavor of the
original dish made in China's Sichuan province.
  6 skinless, boneless chicken thighs, cut into bite-size pieces
  3 Tbsp. lower-sodium soy sauce, divided
  1/4 cup plus 1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch, divided
  1/4 tsp. kosher salt
  2 Tbsp. canola oil, divided
  1 1/2 Tbsp. honey
  1 Tbsp. dark sesame oil
  2 tsp. rice vinegar
  1 tsp. sambal oelek (ground fresh chile paste)
  1 large garlic clove, minced
  3 Tbsp. coarsely chopped dry-roasted peanuts
  3/4 cup diagonally sliced celery (about 2 stalks)
  8 (6-inch) corn tortillas
  1/3 cup sliced green onions
  1/2 medium red bell pepper, thinly sliced
  4 lime wedges
  Place chicken in a large zip-top plastic bag. Add 1 tablespoon soy sauce to
bag; seal. Marinate at room temperature 30 minutes. Remove chicken from bag;
discard marinade. Place 1/4 cup cornstarch in a shallow dish. Sprinkle chicken
evenly with salt. Add chicken to cornstarch in dish and toss chicken to
thoroughly coat. Shake off excess cornstarch.
  Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat. Add 1 tablespoon canola
oil to pan; swirl to coat. Add half of coated chicken; sauté 6 minutes or until
 done, turning to brown. Remove chicken from pan using a slotted spoon; drain
on paper towels. Repeat procedure with remaining 1 tablespoon canola oil and
coated chicken.
  Combine remaining 11/2 teaspoons cornstarch, remaining 2 tablespoons soy
sauce, honey, and next 3 ingredients (through sambal oelek) in a microwave-safe
 bowl, stirring with a whisk until smooth. Microwave at high for 11/2 minutes
or until slightly thick, stirring twice. Stir in garlic. Combine soy sauce
mixture, chicken, peanuts and celery; toss to coat chicken.
  Toast tortillas under broiler or on a griddle until lightly blistered,
turning frequently. Place two tortillas on each of four plates; divide chicken
mixture evenly among tortillas. Top each taco with green onions and bell pepper
 strips; serve with lime wedges. Serves 4.
  - From "Cooking Light Global Kitchen: The World's Most Delicious Food Made
Easy" by David Joachim (Oxmoor House, $29.95)


Tips on going fusion
  Make a specific trip to an international market with a cookbook in hand.
Buying just five or 10 new-to-you ingredients that your regular supermarket
doesn't sell will infuse your cooking with exciting flavors.
  You don't want to mash up half a dozen cuisines into one. Instead, borrow
maybe one or two unexpected flavors to incorporate into a dish.
  Brainstorm dishes you can make at home while you're eating out. It's hard to
stand in a kitchen and invent a totally new combination of flavors, but if
you're eating a banh mi sandwich and think, "This combination of ingredients
would be really good in a spring roll," make note of it for the next time
you're at the grocery store.
  Recommended reading
  For more on the history and evolution of the taco, check out Jeffrey M.
Pilcher's excellent "Planet Taco: A Global History of Mexican Food." For an
eye-opening take on authenticity, read Gustavo Arellano's "Taco USA: How
Mexican Food Conquered America."


Austin Food & Wine Festival
  Get ready for Saturday's Rock Your Taco event with our video with two-time
defending champ Tyson Cole of Uchi. Watch it at austin360.com, where our live
coverage of the fest starts Friday.
  Also coming Friday: We'll have an interview with chef Rick Bayless, one of
the masters of modern Mexican cuisine who will be at the fest. Look for that in
 Austin360 and online.


Korean-Style Beef Tacos
  Among Asian chili pastes, Korea's gochujang is one of the most complex. It's
sweet, spicy, salty, savory flavors come from fermented soybeans that are
thickened with glutinous rice, and it is absolutely essential in Korean
cooking. You can find the Annie Chun's brand in most supermarkets, or look for
less-sweet varieties in Asian markets.
  1/3 cup sugar
  5 Tbsp. lower-sodium soy sauce
  1 1/2 Tbsp. gochujang (Korean chili paste)
  1 Tbsp. fresh lime juice
  1 Tbsp. dark sesame oil
  4 garlic cloves, minced
  12 oz. flank steak, sliced against the grain into thin strips
  1/8 tsp. salt
  Cooking spray
  8 (6-inch) corn tortillas
  Kimchi or quick-pickled cabbage, for garnish
  3 Tbsp. sliced green onions
  Combine first six ingredients in a shallow dish. Add steak to dish; cover.
Marinate in refrigerator for 1 hour, turning after 30 minutes.
  Preheat grill to medium-high heat. Remove steak from marinade, and discard
marinade. Thread steak onto eight (8-inch) skewers; sprinkle with salt. Place
skewers on grill rack coated with cooking spray. Grill two minutes on each side
 or until desired degree of doneness. Grill tortillas 30 seconds on each side
or until lightly charred; keep warm. Place two tortillas on each of four
plates, and divide steak evenly among tortillas. Divide the garnishes evenly
among tacos and sprinkle with onions. Serves 4.
  - From "Cooking Light Global Kitchen: The World's Most Delicious Food Made
Easy" by David Joachim (Oxmoor House, $29.95)


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 19, 2014 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Texas gay marriage ban targeted

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1410 words


Taking advantage of a newly favorable legal climate, gay-marriage advocates have
taken their fight to federal courts in Texas and at least 16 other states,
winning recent rulings in Oklahoma and Utah that could spell trouble for the
Lone Star State's ban on same-sex spouses.

Gay couples have filed three federal lawsuits in Austin and San Antonio asking
judges to void the Texas law and constitutional amendment limiting marriage to
opposite-sex couples.

Making the same arguments that prevailed in courtrooms in Republican-dominated
Oklahoma and Utah, the lawsuits claim the ban on same-sex marriage subjects gay
couples to unequal treatment in violation of the U.S. Constitution.

"Texas stigmatizes same-sex couples, as well as their children and families, and
denies them the same dignity, respect and stature afforded officially recognized
heterosexual family relationships," said a lawsuit filed in Austin by two women
who hope to marry and two men who want Texas to recognize their out-of-state
marriage. Both couples live in Austin.

That lawsuit and another filed in Austin by two Fort Worth-area men are still in
the early stages.

A San Antonio challenge is further along, with a Feb. 12 hearing set on a
request for an injunction barring Texas from enforcing its gay-marriage ban.

Like the legal challenges in Oklahoma and Utah, the Texas lawsuits employ
language taken from last summer's U.S. Supreme Court ruling that overturned the
federal Defense of Marriage Act, enacted in 1996 to limit marriage, under
federal law, to the union of one man and one woman.

The high court's 5-4 decision in U.S. v. Windsor was a "game changer," shifting
overnight the legal ground beneath gay-marriage bans, said Jody Scheske, a
lawyer for the two Austin couples who sued.

Writing for the Windsor majority, Justice Anthony Kennedy said the law, known as
DOMA, violated the core constitutional principle that people are entitled to
equal protection under the law.

DOMA's main purpose was to demean and stigmatize homosexuals, relegating them to
second-class status and humiliating the children they are raising, Kennedy
wrote, concluding that there can be no legitimate government purpose for a law
intended to "disparage and to injure."

Though Kennedy said his opinion applied only to federal recognition of same-sex
marriages performed in the 17 states that allow the practice, Justice Antonin
Scalia was having none of it, issuing a scathing dissent that warned -
correctly, it turns out - that the ruling would lead to inevitable attacks on
similar state laws.

"By formally declaring anyone opposed to same-sex marriage an enemy of human
decency, the majority arms well every challenger to a state law restricting
marriage to its traditional definition," Scalia wrote.

Texas to defend ban

Last month in Utah and last week in Oklahoma, federal judges acting on those
predicted lawsuits overturned state bans based on the principles stated in
Windsor. A judge in Ohio also relied on Windsor to force that state to recognize
out-of-state same-sex marriages on death certificates.

"Once you get married lawfully in one state, another state cannot summarily take
your marriage away," U.S. District Judge Timothy Black ruled in the Ohio case
last month, adding that, like the federal government, states cannot discriminate
"simply because the majority of voters don't like homosexuality."

The Utah and Oklahoma rulings were placed on hold while those states appeal.
Ohio officials appealed Black's ruling last week.

In Texas, Attorney General Greg Abbott has vowed to vigorously defend the
state's ban on same-sex marriage, passed into law with strong House and Senate
majorities in 2003, followed in 2005 by a constitutional amendment approved by
76 percent of voters.

In briefs to San Antonio federal Judge Orlando Garcia, Abbott argued that the
Windsor decision affirmed a state's authority to recognize same-sex marriage
through the democratic process. That power is meaningless unless the same
authority applies to states that decide to recognize only "traditional
marriages" through the same process, he wrote.

"Plaintiffs argue that the right to marry includes the right to define marriage
as they see fit. That is wrong," Abbott told the court.

Texas has always defined marriage as the union of one man and one woman, and the
couples who sued cannot prove that same-sex marriage, a relatively recent
concept, is a fundamental constitutional right, Abbott said.

Moreover, Texas has an interest in promoting "responsible procreation and child
rearing," he wrote, adding that traditional marriage increases the likelihood
that children are raised in a "stable and enduring family unit."

Earlier this month, Abbott asked U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks of Austin to add
the San Antonio lawsuit to two challenges in his court, noting that the
challenges make similar arguments. Sparks declined, saying in a Jan. 9 hearing
that he didn't have power over another judge's docket.

Abbott next asked the San Antonio judge to shift his case to Sparks' court. The
couples who sued opposed the request, suggesting in a legal brief that Abbott
appeared to be forum shopping after Sparks, during the Jan. 9 hearing, made
statements about the difficult burden of proof awaiting the gay couples.

Garcia hasn't yet ruled on Abbott's request.

Momentum building

Outside of court, opponents of same-sex marriage aren't giving up.

This month, U.S. Rep. Randy Weber - a Republican whose coastal district is
centered on Galveston - introduced a bill requiring the federal government to
recognize only marriages that are valid in the state in which the couple lives.

The 27 Republicans who signed on include two from Central Texas: John Carter of
Round Rock and Bill Flores, whose district includes North Austin,

Waco and Bryan.

In Indiana, the Legislature is debating a constitutional ban on same-sex
marriage. Currently, 29 states have similar constitutional amendments, while
four others ban the practice by law.

Momentum, however, appears to be shifting toward allowing same-sex marriage,
said Cary Franklin, a University of Texas assistant law professor.

The main driver, Franklin said, has been an "unbelievable shift in public
attitude, particularly when you look at young people, who are overwhelmingly in
favor of same-sex marriage."

A 2013 Gallup Poll, for example, found 53 percent of Americans favored allowing
same-sex marriage, up from 27 percent in 1996. Support jumped to 70 percent for
those aged 18 to 29.

With the Windsor decision's arrival, Franklin said, "the handwriting is on the
wall."

"Kennedy talked about marriage as something that was very important for same-sex
couples - for their standing in the community, for their esteem - and he talked
about the harm (a ban) does to their children. All of those ideas make it very
hard to say that it's OK to do that in (states)," Franklin said.

"All these forces act together to suggest that we'll see change coming a lot
sooner than a lot of people expect," she said.

Attitudes have been slower to shift in Texas, where opponents of gay marriage
still outnumber supporters 56 to 35 percent, according to a 2012 Pew Research
Center poll.

The Texas attorney general's office doesn't believe same-sex marriage is
inevitable - not if judges adhere to the principle of exercising restraint when
asked to expand a constitutional right. Otherwise, Abbott warned in briefs,
judges risk replacing public debate and legislative action with personal policy
preferences.

Contact Chuck Lindell

at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

The lawsuits
  *  Two couples, Cleopatra De Leon and Nicole Dimetman of Austin, and Vic
Holmes and Mark Phariss of Plano, seek an injunction barring Texas from
enforcing its ban on same-sex marriage. The suit was filed in San Antonio,
where a hearing is set for Feb. 12.
  *  Two Austin couples - Shannon and Catherine Zahrn, who want to get married,
 and Alexius Augustine and Andrew Simpson, who were married in Maine - filed a
lawsuit in Austin to overturn the state ban. Their lawsuit seeks class-action
status on behalf of all gays and lesbians in Texas.
  *  Two Fort Worth-area men filed a lawsuit in Austin arguing that the state
ban on same-sex marriage
  is without valid governmental objective.
  Christopher McNosky and Sven Stricker are acting without lawyers.


EXPERT COVERAGE
  Capitol reporter Chuck Lindell has covered legal affairs since 2005 and
written numerous stories about same-sex marriage and divorce laws in Texas.





LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 6, 2014 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Coal goal worthy, but not at this price

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 634 words


It's been clear for some time that Austin can't easily or affordably part ways
with the coal-burning Fayette Power Plant. Now an Austin Energy analysis has
forced City Council members to acknowledge this hard reality: Selling or closing
down Austin's share of Fayette will raise electricity rates, and the rate
increase could be dramatic.

Austin Energy executives told council members Tuesday the utility would have to
raise its rates anywhere from 5 percent to 25 percent if the city sold or
retired its portion of the power plant, the American-Statesman's Marty Toohey
reported in Wednesday's print editions. The degree of the rate increase, whether
modest or impossible to bear, would depend on how the city chose to walk away
from Fayette, but the end result would be higher electricity rates for Austin
Energy consumers - and an almost certain new attempt by the Legislature to
deregulate Austin's electricity market.

Weaning Austin Energy off coal, a source of energy that contributes greatly to
air pollution and climate change, is a worthy goal. But Austin Energy's
ownership stake in the Fayette Power Plant complicates reaching the goal anytime
soon. We noted the complications Fayette creates for the city - both financially
and, ironically, environmentally - in an August 2012 editorial when the City
Council briefly considered a ballot initiative that would have given it the
authority to sell parts of the public utility. The council wisely decided
against adding the proposal to the ballot.

Fayette provides Austin with about a fifth to a quarter of its electricity
needs. Natural gas generates up to a half while the rest comes from the city's
stake in the South Texas Project nuclear plant, wind farms in West and South
Texas, various solar sources and a $2.3 billion biomass plant in East Texas the
council foolishly approved in 2008.

Austin Energy owns a 50 percent share of two of the three power-generation units
at Fayette. The Lower Colorado River Authority, which manages the plant and
sells power to smaller cities in the region and electric cooperatives, has no
plans to sell its part of the plant and has first right of refusal should Austin
decide to sell its share.

Austin could try to renegotiate its contract with LCRA so it would own one of
the two units outright, and then the city could shut down its unit. The LCRA
would object to mothballing a unit, however, as would the Public Utilities
Commission and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which operates the
electric grid that serves most of Texas. State regulators would frown on any
move that further shrinks power reserves at a time of increased demand.

Austin Energy also lacks the cash reserves to pay off about $260 million in debt
and interest on the $400 million it and the LCRA spent to install scrubbers that
capture sulfur dioxide and some mercury emissions from the Fayette plant.

Selling the plant would not guarantee cleaner air or fewer carbon emissions.
Whether the LCRA bought Austin's share of Fayette and sold the energy elsewhere
or Austin's share was bought by another operator, the Fayette plant would
continue to operate. This is a key point: Purging Fayette from Austin Energy's
list of energy sources will not stop the pollution Fayette produces. We
previously have argued that maintaining its share in Fayette keeps Austin in the
best position to shape Fayette's use and control its emissions.

The cost of generating clean energy is delicately balanced against maintaining
affordable electricity rates. Cutting ties with the Fayette Power Plant would
cost Austin residents too much.

This is not a call for the city to abandon the idea of ridding itself of the
Fayette Power Plant. But the city should put the idea aside for now. The right
time eventually will come, even if it's later than sooner.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Benefit at Sway aims to save lives

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 851 words


A small group of Austinites saved 58,000 lives at Sway one night last week.

It's astounding. The measles vaccine has been around for decades. One dose costs
$1.

Yet, according to the World Health Organization, in 2012, there were 122,000
measles deaths globally.

Why? Local resistance. Which is why the Red Cross/Red Crescent, with its 13
million local volunteers, is so crucial to ending the scourge. They speak the
language and know the culture.

And they have signed up with other health groups to wipe out measles by 2020. So
far only smallpox has been defeated. Close calls with other diseases, like
tuberculosis, were stymied by local holdouts, then vaccine resistance.

Red Cross of Central Texas usually focuses on local or regional issues. But at
Sway, this group that has developed its own distinct local identity raised a
precious $58,000. (The original goal was $50,000.)

David Melzer, general council and chief international officer for Red Cross, who
just escaped the snowstorm on the East Coast, proved quite eloquent in his plea.

Conservation luncheon

Always creative, the Nature Conservancy of Texas changed up its 50th anniversary
lunch by adding a panel talk moderated by the always nimble-witted state Sen.
Kirk Watson.

The panelists - Laura Huffman, Julio Boccaletti, David Banks - focused
separately on regional, national and international issues.

Tidbits in no particular order: The best way to keep water in Texas is to use
less of it as we expect population to increase to 50 million.... Africa will
have more than 3 billion people. People stress is its biggest problem... 86
percent of Texans live in big cities. Houston will double in size.... Austin's
efforts to protect the Edwards Aquifer are now a national model.

The Conservancy's umbrella group is prioritizing really wild places and those
with good governance in

Sub-Saharan Africa.... Response to climate change includes natural
infrastructure like oyster beds in Galveston Bay.

In Texas, use of surface water is in the public realm, but ground water is
private. Yet it's all the same water. How do you reconcile and protect?... 60
percent of water use in Texas goes to agriculture. Thirty percent of that is
lost because of irrigation methods.

Feed the Peace Awards

Lance Armstrong showed up. That's how strongly people feel about the Nobelity
Project and its Feed the Peace Awards. Bearded and baseball-hatted Armstrong,
who has kept a low profile in Austin for the past year or so, warmly
congratulated Nobelity founders Christi and Turk Pipkin off-dais last week.

Among the other celebrities who lent their support to the project that fills
essential needs from Bastrop to Katmandu were actor Kyle Chandler, musician Ben
Harper and comedian Ron White, who toasted his friends, Peace honorees John Paul
and Eloise DeJoria. Other Pipkin buds who delighted in the excellent dinner chat
and donated tens of thousands of dollars during the city's most efficient live
auction were arts advocate Suzanne Booth, mayoral hopeful Steve Adler, perennial
candidate Kinky Friedman, top socials such as Jack and Carla McDonald, Rusty and
Mary Tally, Rick and Karen Hawkins, and Eric and Maria Groten, as well as
musicians such as Gary P. Nunn, Carolyn Wonderland, Joe Ely, Kelly Willis, Bruce
Robison, Kathy Valentine, Jimmy Dale Gilmore, Lavelle White, Amy Cook and Amy
Nelson.

Super to greet actor Brad Leland and writer Larry Wright, too, and to meet
former VJ and current biz sharpie Adam Curry.

Philanthropy Day Awards

I endorse emcee Rebecca Powers' position: No award should consist of 32
syllables or more. Think: "Best Picture."

With that in mind, let me rephrase the high honors given before 800 guests
during the Philanthropy Day Lunch at the powered-up Hyatt Regency Austin.

Top award for giving went to incredibly thoughtful and generous Marc and Carolyn
Seriff.

AFP Austin chapter founder Chris Collier earned special laurels and gave an
inspiring speech. Amber Carden was named the top volunteer. Alyssa Epstein took
home the Kelly Davidson youth giving award. AFP saluted Kristi Katz Gordy as
lead giving pro.

Much-lauded RGK Foundation gained more honors for giving, and Greg Kozmetsky
accepted with brevity. IBM scored kudos for large Austin giving group.
Cook-Walden took prize for small/medium giving group.

Winter Reading Week

As regular followers of this column know, for 21 years, our friends have met at
Surfside on the Gulf Coast every February for a long, cozy feast of books,
magazines, movies, games, chat, walks, food and wine. If all goes well, as you
read this, about 30 friends will have joined us for the Winter Reading Week.

This grand tradition has been complemented for almost 10 years by the Summer
Reading Week.

In some ways, the Reading Weeks, inspired by an Iris Murdoch novel and
duplicated elsewhere by guests who have visited in the past, is the essence of
Out & About. It is echoed in our Wren Cottage Feasts for six guests at a time
here.

They are about people in a given place and time who share various threads of
history and culture.

Contact Michael Barnes at 512-445-3970 or mbarnes@statesman.com

Twitter: @outandabout

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Activists: Austin Energy should be even greener

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 988 words


Judging from the props and T-shirts, Tuesday's modest rally on the front steps
of Austin Energy's headquarters was about environmental activists' desire for
the city to cut ties with a coal plant. But they also spoke to a deeper issue:
With Austin Energy on pace to meet its ambitious green-energy goals years ahead
of schedule, should the utility adopt an even more aggressive approach?

"We think it makes sense not to sit on our laurels," rally organizer Kaiba White
told the dozen or so people gathered by the utility's front entrance.

Austin Energy's climate-protection plan calls for the utility to get 35 percent
of its electricity from renewable sources such as wind and solar by 2020. The
utility announced last week it expects to hit that figure by 2016. Tuesday's
rally took place following the first meeting of a city advisory panel that is
examining the utility's goals. That panel could give advice to Austin Energy or
to the City Council members who set its big-picture policies.

But, as sometimes happens in Austin political debates, there is disagreement
about what exactly the panel is supposed to accomplish. Austin Energy General
Manager Larry Weis said he views it primarily as a means to explain to the
public how the city is going about its goals, as opposed to a forum for
wholesale changes to a carbon-reduction plan that was adopted to national
acclaim in 2007, then updated in 2010.

Asked whether the utility's early success means it should be investing more
aggressively in renewable energy, Weis said much of the early success is due to
a desire to snatch up wind contracts before federal subsidies expire and prices
rise.

"There's a real question of affordability" with accelerating the city's goals,
Weis said, noting the council-mandated goal of keeping Austin Energy rates
cheaper than 60 percent of the state's other utilities.

But Weis and other Austin Energy executives also say the panel could uncover
options that weren't available even a few years ago.

"A lot has changed" since 2010, said Khalil Shalabi, an Austin Energy vice
president who oversees its resource planning. "The price of renewable sources
has dropped precipitously, natural gas prices have dropped quite a bit, and the
economics of that time are a bit old."

Of particular note: Austin Energy is now forecasting that the 30-year "all-in"
cost of a wind farm or large solar array will actually be cheaper than
carbon-producing or nuclear counterparts.

The utility projects natural gas at around 7 cents per kilowatt-hour, when the
cost of building a plant is taken into account, with coal just under 10 cents
per kilowatt-hour and nuclear around 13 cents. Utility forecasts put West Texas
wind power at about 4 cents, coastal wind energy at 5 cents, large-scale solar
at just more than 5 cents and rooftop solar at just more than 10 cents.

Still, a wind contract the City Council is scheduled to vote on Thursday
illustrates the complexities inherent in long-term energy planning - and why
Austin Energy executives say they must still move cautiously on renewable energy
despite bullish cost projections.

The contract calls for Austin Energy to pay up to $31 million a year for 18
years for power from a 300-megawatt wind farm north of Lubbock. At somewhere
between 2.8 cents per kilowatt-hour and 3.8 cents per kilowatt-hour - the
utility won't say exactly how much - the deal is among the cheapest out there,
for any source of electricity, and should have no effect on customers' monthly
bills. The wind energy will allow Austin Energy to move forward with a plan to
reduce its reliance on a coal plant in Fayette County, mainly by reducing the
coal plant's output at night in favor of wind.

The wind power is so cheap partly because federal subsidies knocked somewhere
between a third to a half off the asking price, but those subsidies are being
repealed. And wind is often not available. On the morning of Jan. 6, when
electricity demand spiked as much of the state was shivering through unusually
cold weather, only 2,000 megawatts of the state's 11,000 megawatts worth of wind
farms were producing power, Shalabi said.

With its wind goals basically satisfied, the utility plans to focus its efforts
on solar.

In 2009, Austin Energy inked a then-unheard of price of 16.5 cents per
kilowatt-hour deal with a 30-megawatt solar array in Webberville. A similar deal
would probably cost about a third less if signed today, according to the U.S.
Energy Department, which is forecasting sale prices as little as 6 cents per
kilowatt-hour by 2020.

Weis said Austin Energy could have a proposal for a large-scale solar facility
before the council as early as next month. The utility has generally preferred
such large projects - they are cheaper - but solar advocates say the city is
short-changing the rooftop variety. The City Council-appointed Solar Advisory
Committee issued a November 2012 report recommending Austin Energy double its
solar goal, to 400 megawatts of capacity by 2020, with the amount of rooftop
solar also doubling. The report notes that rooftop solar comes with benefits not
seen in large-scale West Texas arrays, such as providing Austin-area jobs.

But this year Austin Energy cut the amount it pays customers for the electricity
they generate on their rooftops by 16 percent. Utility executives pointed to
falling solar costs; solar advocates replied the utility was reducing the amount
available just as the technology was poised to spread rapidly. The council
recommended that Austin Energy adopt the solar group's goals, but it didn't
order the utility to do so.

With Austin Energy also contemplating whether to build or buy another natural
gas plant, the activists gathered in front of the Austin Energy building Tuesday
said the city isn't taking solar seriously enough.

"We're sick," said White, the organizer, "of having the can kicked down the road
when it comes to solar access."

Contact Marty Toohey at

512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

THE FASTEST GROWING BIG CITY IN AMERICA

BYLINE: Marty Toohey and Marissa Barnett American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1222 words


When Kathleen Cool and her girlfriend decided they wanted to leave Miami, they
heard Austin had what they wanted in a home.

A visit confirmed what, according to statistics both brand new and well known,
others see in Austin: a safe, welcoming, pet-friendly place with jobs. They
moved when Cool's girlfriend landed a job at the University of Texas and, soon
after, Cool found a media coordinator job at UT's Institute for Public School
Initiatives. The famously snarled traffic is the only notable headache, Cool
said, adding that a key appeal is Austin's blend of city life and the natural
beauty in and around it.

"I love that contrast," said Cool, 30, who moved last month into an apartment
along Oltorf Street. "We just fell in love with this place and decided to make
the big move."

As have many others, according to an American-Statesman analysis of new Census
Bureau estimates. The data, released Thursday, show the Texas capital and its
neighbors are again the nation's fastest-growing cluster of cities home to more
than a million people.

But the census numbers also hint at a new trend: A larger share of new residents
appear to be choosing, like Cool, to make their home in the heart of the city,
where attempts to encourage urban-style development as an alternative to
suburban growth have proceeded in fits and starts.

"All of this urban congestion we're feeling right now, it appears to be backed
by the numbers," said Austin City Demographer Ryan Robinson, a feeling he said
will probably persist for a while.

The trend matches what many people in the region know intuitively. The
Austin-Round Rock-San Marcos corridor has grown nearly 10 percent since April
2010, adding 166,762 residents - essentially, adding a mass of people equal to
the population of Round Rock and Georgetown in less than four years. That
outpaces fellow tech hub Raleigh, N.C., the second-fastest-growing big metro
area, which grew 7.4 percent since the start of the decade.

The very latest data show the growth remains strong. From July 2012 to July
2013, the Austin area added an additional 47,941 residents - basically another
San Marcos - and the 2.6 percent growth rate was the nation's highest among
metro areas with more than 1 million people.

Second was the Houston metro area, which was buoyed by the oil and gas boom that
is also fueling growth across the Great Plains, according to the census. In
terms of total influx, Houston, which is much larger than Austin, led the
country, with 137,692 new residents. San Antonio-New Braunfels was fifth among
big cities with a 2 percent increase; Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington was 12th at
1.6 percent.

Overall, Austin-Round Rock-San Marcos now ranks 35th among metro areas in
overall population, with just shy of 1.9 million people, according to the census
data. The area is now on pace to surpass 2 million residents next year.

Among them will be Justin Ruttley, 39, who arrived three weeks ago. Ruttley
works as a stagehand at ACL Live at the Moody Theater and is staying with a
friend as he looks for an apartment in East Austin or the south part of town.
Ruttley lived in Austin from 1999 to 2005 before moving to Lafayette, La.,
where, he said, he missed the "easygoing people and Austin's vibe."

"I love music, and I love food; those are the major things they have here.
There's a restaurant on every block," he said.

But he has noticed a few differences since 2005: "It's grown exponentially,
there's just so much more going on now than there was even nine or 10 years
ago."

Opinions about those changes are mixed, of course. A recent Wall Street Journal
article about Austin nightlife noted that "there may be no more magnetic town in
America right now," to which the Don't Dallas My Austin Facebook page replied,
"thankfully, (the Journal) took a pretty generic approach" to suggesting the
places locals frequent. But worries about Austin's growth are worries about a
phenomenon that dates back to the mid-1800s, when one census count showed Austin
growing 18 percent in a decade.

The recent census data also hint at a different kind of boom than Central Texas
was experiencing before the recession hit, said Robinson, the city demographer.

Robinson said the prior boom was largely weighted toward the suburbs, where land
is plentiful and tax bills are usually easier on the bank account. Suburban
households are still multiplying like mushrooms after a spring rain: Hays County
grew 4 percent in the past year and Williamson County 3.2 percent. But unlike
the previous über-boom, Travis County this year added more residents than the
surrounding four counties combined, suggesting the sometimes-dreadful commutes
might be affecting people's decisions, even as Austin tries to add more densely
populated urban pockets and emphasize its cool factor.

Some of those pockets are beginning to materialize in the form of mid-rises
along Riverside Drive, Burnet Road and South Lamar Boulevard. But Austin is, in
a sense, feeding a housing market starved by the recession, during which
relatively little was built. Pent-up demand and more freely flowing investment
capital mean an average of 30 units a day are opening this year. The towers
aren't absorbing all the newcomers; since April 2010, the net migration into the
five-county metro area is 110 people per day, with an additional 30 per day
added because births have outpaced deaths.

Of those 140 people added each day, 81 have been settling into Travis County.
That is more than double the arrivals in Williamson County, the
next-most-popular destination, according to census data. But Robinson said he
expects Austin's growth to decline somewhat; Austin's 2014 building boom will
probably slow while suburban development accelerates, he said.

The 2012-13 data actually show the region's growth has slowed a tiny bit
compared with the couple of prior years, probably because other communities'
economies and abilities to attract talent are recovering.

"Growth is still raging at a torrential pace," Robinson said, "but this new data
release signifies an important shifting slightly downward from our rapid crush
of population growth experienced over the past few years."

Still, the economy will probably continue to attract those of an entrepreneurial
bent. Darius Fisher, 28, moved in October from San Francisco to relocate his
online reputation management company. The appeal of Austin, he said, was its
"lower cost of living, business climate and large pool of well-qualified job
candidates."

He said finding his home in South Austin didn't take much time.

Contact Marty Toohey at 512-445-3673.

Coming Sunday
  10 years
  of growth
  Austin has added more than $13 billion in new housing, office and retail
development to the tax rolls since 2005. We examine how the city has grown and
whether the growth is affecting the city's charm.


BY THE NUMBERS
  Fastest-growing
  metro areas of all sizes:
  1. The Villages, Fla.   5.2%
  2. Odessa   3.3%
  3. Midland   3.3%
  4. Fargo, N.D.-Minn.   3.1%
  5. Bismarck, N.D.   3.1%
  6. Casper, Wyo.   2.9%
  7. Myrtle Beach, S.C.   2.7%
  8. Austin   2.6%
  9. Daphne, Ala.   2.6%
  10. Cape Coral, Fla.   2.5%
  Share of the growth
  in the five-county Austin metro area:
  Travis   51.5%
  Williamson   30.6%
  Hays   14.6%
  Bastrop    2.2%
  Caldwell   1.1%
  Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Austin City Demographer Ryan Robinson


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

UT report: Prison heat a violation of rights

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 754 words


Dangerous summer temperatures inside Texas prisons violate inmates' human rights
and the U.S. Constitution's ban on cruel and unusual punishment, said a report
released Tuesday by the University of Texas Human Rights Clinic.

At least 14 Texas inmates have died because of exposure to extreme heat since
2007, but prison officials have responded with "woefully inadequate" measures
that continue to place inmates and guards at risk, the report said.

Prison officials dismissed the report, "Deadly Heat in Texas Prisons," saying
that retrofitting prisons with air conditioning would be expensive and
unnecessary.

The report comes four months after a Louisiana federal judge, ruling that
overheated cell blocks constitute cruel and unusual punishment, ordered that
state's death row to be kept no hotter than 88 degrees. The report also adds
weight to several pending legal challenges in Texas, including eight wrongful
death lawsuits filed by Austin lawyer Jeff Edwards on behalf of inmates'
families.

The first lawsuit is set to go to trial in November, he said.

The report's top recommendation called for air conditioning to be installed to
keep temperatures below 85 degrees in areas where inmates are housed. Until that
can happen, the report suggested identifying at-risk inmates, such as those with
diabetes or high blood pressure, and housing them in climate-controlled areas
during summer.

When prison temperatures exceed 85 degrees, a frequent summer occurrence in
metal and concrete prison structures, the remaining inmates should be closely
monitored for adverse reactions and continuously provided with ice and cool
liquids, said UT law professor Ariel Dulitzky, director of the Human Rights
Clinic.

"It is crucial that, in this coming summer, no additional deaths happen in Texas
prisons," Dulitzky said.

Seventy-nine of the state's 109 prisons lack air conditioning in inmate housing
areas, and, although the cost hasn't been studied, "retrofitting facilities with
air conditioning would be extremely expensive," said Jason Clark, spokesman for
the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.

The expense also would be unnecessary, prison officials said, because the agency
takes adequate precautions to reduce heat-related illnesses, such as using
blowers to circulate air; providing water and ice; allowing fans in cells; and
restricting inmate activity during the hottest part of the day.

Prison staffers also are trained to recognize heat-related illnesses and conduct
frequent wellness checks on inmates identified as susceptible to heat, Clark
said.

"The agency strives to mitigate temperature extremes and is committed to making
sure all offenders and staff are safe during the extreme heat," he said.

But Brian McGiverin, a lawyer with the Texas Civil Rights Project, said the 14
deaths are proof that the prisons' heat protocols don't work.

"The response that their policies are adequate today is ridiculous," McGiverin
said at a news conference to unveil the report. "They know well that people are
dying from heat in their prisons. If they don't feel that they have a problem
with their policies, that simply means that they don't care that people are
dying."

If the Legislature or prison officials refuse to act, a judge likely will force
a solution on Texas, he warned.

The report criticized Texas prison officials for failing to set maximum
allowable temperatures in prison, a practice followed by other hot-weather
states, including Arizona and Arkansas, while New Mexico and Oklahoma require
that temperatures be kept within unspecified summer comfort zones.

The result is unsafe working conditions for many Texas prison guards,
contributing to high annual turnover rates of 24 to 26 percent a year, said
Lance Lowry, president of the corrections officers union in Huntsville.

"In 2012, we had 92 workers who suffered heat-related illnesses, that we know
of," Lowry said.

Heat also can compromise safety by increasing the number of assaults on staff,
particularly when prisoners with mental illness stop taking medications "that
are heat reactive," he said.

In the meantime,

the report will be forwarded to several international bodies - including the
U.N. Committee Against Torture and Inter-American Commission on Human Rights -
because of the "serious human rights violations" it uncovered, Dulitzky said.

Although powerless to force change in the Texas prison system, the international
agencies can shed light on state practices that, he said, must be changed.

Contact Chuck Lindell

at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 30, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Spotlight falls on campus sex assaults

BYLINE: Melissa B. Taboada and Ciara O'Rourke American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1031 words


President Barack Obama called on America's universities Tuesday to do more to
protect their students from sexual assault, launching a national effort to help
colleges gauge the scope of the problem and protect victims.

Noel Busch-Armendariz, director of the University of Texas Institute on Domestic
Violence and Sexual Assault, was in Washington, D.C., as the program was
launched, and is one of the researchers who will help make it happen.

Campus police and counselors are well aware of the national trends: one in five
women is sexually assaulted while in college, typically during their freshman
and sophomore years. Victims frequently know their attackers, yet the crime
often goes unreported. Drugs and alcohol are often factors.

With 100,000 college students in Central Texas in 2012, the most recent data
available, there were a total of 32 forcible rapes reported by the seven
colleges in the region.

"Austin is a place where we have consumption of alcohol and sexuality, and on
college campuses those two things go together. Along that continuum, sexual
assault also happens," Busch-Armendariz said. "As administrators, it's something
we need to recognize and be prepared for."

UT has already taken steps to implement some of the best practices suggested by
the 20-page report released Tuesday. Other colleges are also being pushed to
take the same steps, including conducting college climate surveys next year to
gather more information about sexual assault on campus.

The Justice Department will work with Rutgers University to pilot and evaluate
the survey.

Busch-Armendariz said such surveys will allow universities to better understand
the risk factors at their particular campuses.

"People will tell researchers because they know there's confidentiality and
anonymity," she said. "There's a lot of truth telling in surveys. We'll get good
prevalence data around that."

She said she's excited that UT is part of the launch, helping to evaluate and
train campus law enforcement. She said since starting the institute 15 years
ago, she has seen positive changes and a commitment from UT to make the Forty
Acres safe for students.

Austin Community College has no dorms or student housing, but "the college will
review the findings from the White House report, and as always look for
opportunities to increase awareness," said ACC Police Chief Lynn Dixon.

Allison Kiss, executive director for the Clery Center for Security on Campus, a
nonprofit group based in Wayne, Pa., said campuses need to look at what is
occurring, address their culture and develop a comprehensive response.

Just talking about sexual assault on campus can help, she said.

"If you talk about it, you will have an increase in reporting, and that's a good
thing," Kiss said. "That means students are reaching out. They know how to
identify what happened to them, that it was a sexual assault and they know where
to go for help."

The federal Clery Act has for many years required colleges and universities to
track and disclose crime, including sex offenses, on and adjacent to campuses,
but critics say it has been seldom enforced. The American-Statesman reported in
2009 that state audits and spot checks by the newspaper showed that many
institutions of higher learning fell short of the government's reporting
standards.

Jane Bost, associate director of prevention and outreach services at the UT
Counseling and Mental Health Center, said the federal recommendations are sound,
and some of the strategies are already being used at UT.

For example, federal officials have suggested setting up bystander intervention
programs on campus to engage men to help prevent assaults from happening. Bost
said the university last year started showing a video about bystander
intervention to all incoming freshmen, and theater performances about consent
are scheduled during the school year.

Another new initiative called BeVocal is aimed at showing students they have the
power to prevent high-risk behavior and harm, she said.

Bost also said she supports the White House's recommendation to conduct a survey
on campus to gauge how big of a problem sexual assault is there.

The number of people who report a sexual assault reflect a "very small
percentage" of what happens on any university campus, she said. "We're always
re-evaluating, and we're always looking at what we can do better."

In its most recent annual security report, the university reported 74 sexual
offenses 2010-12. That includes attacks that happen on campus, in non-campus
buildings or properties, and adjacent public properties. More than half of those
sexual assaults were in 2010, when 40 offenses were reported, according to the
report. Last year, there were 18, with nine on campus.

Bost said she hopes students who have been sexually assaulted will feel
increasingly comfortable reporting what happened to them, but she said that a
culture in which assault survivors tend to be disbelieved, or are blamed for
what happened to them, is an ongoing challenge.

Among the resources that are posted on the university's website for sexual
assault victims is a link to the options available to students who want to
report what happened.

LaToya Hill, UT associate dean of student conduct and emergency services, said
the university's next step is to review the report with the school's Title IX
coordinator, campus partners and legal affairs to see what federal guidelines
and recommendations should be implemented into the already-existing policy.

The federal government has launched a website, notalone.gov, with resources for
students including a roadmap for filing a complaint if they believe their school
hasn't lived up to its obligations to investigate and act upon reports of sexual
assault.

Staff writer Ralph Haurwitz contributed to this report.

Contact Melissa Taboada

at 512-445-3620.

Twitter: @melissataboada

Contact Ciara O'Rourke

at 512-445-3548.

Twitter: @ciaraorourke

FORCIBLE SEX ASSAULT REPORTS
                  ENROLLMENT 2010 2011 2012
UT-Austin 52,000 40 16 18
TexasA&M(College Station) 53,200 10 9 7
AustinCommunityCollege 38,600 3 1 8
Texas State 35,500 0 3 1
St. Edwards 5,400 0 1 2
Concordia 2,500 0 0 1
Southwestern 1,500 0 0 1
Huston-Tillotson 1,000 0 0 1



LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Records request tough on the trees

BYLINE: John Kelso Special to American-Statesman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 622 words


If you lost your shag carpet to Hurricane Sandy, or you had to sell the herd up
in the Panhandle because of the drought, you might want to lay some of the blame
on Wallace L. Hall Jr.

Hall is the University of Texas System regent and Dallas businessman who
requisitioned somewhere between 150,000 to 800,000 pages of UT records,
depending on whose figure you buy into.

I don't mean to sound like Neil deGrasse Tyson, but I'm thinking Hall might be
responsible for climate change. Consider all of the trees that were murdered
because of Hall's quest. Sure, some point the finger at countries such as
Indonesia for decimating their forests to plant moneymaking palm trees for palm
oil. And weren't farting cows on the blame list somewhere?

But I'm pointing my pinky finger at Wallace L. Hall Jr.

Somewhere between 150,000 and 800,000 pages - that's a lot of paper. Figuring
that the records would have appeared on standard 8.5-by-11-inch sheets,
stretched end to end that amounts to 26 to 139 miles of paperwork. So we're
talking a trail of timber guts that would stretch from here to Bastrop at the
low end, or just short of Houston at the high end.

Or, since we're talking UT, you're looking at between 4,583 and 24,444 first
downs at Royal-Memorial Stadium. Which is unlikely any time soon, considering
the Longhorns might have to play a cheerleader at quarterback.

Anyway, the Travis County district attorney's office, wondering if Hall might
have been a bit too nosy, is investigating to see if Hall broke the law. To get
the ball rolling, the House Select Committee on Transparency in State Agency
Operations referred the case to the county.

The committee's counsel, Rusty Hardin & Associates LLP (and who in Texas
wouldn't trust an attorney named Rusty), says Hall's record gathering was
"unreasonable and burdensome" and that it involved "improper use" of
confidential student information. State Rep. Jim Pitts, a Waxahachie Republican,
has accused Hall of conducting a "witch hunt" aimed at kicking UT President Bill
Powers out the door.

Hey, at least Hall didn't fly in a drone.

Still, perhaps Hall should be included as a sculpture in front of the Tower,
reading an email.

And has anyone considered that Hall might simply be chapped because UT hasn't
named a building after him?

If that's the problem, how about the Wallace L. Hall Jr. Hall of Records?

OK, let's talk about the philosophical differences that led to Hall's quest.

Some people, like Hall and his backers, believe tuition rates wouldn't be
through the Burnt Orange roof if college professors spent more time in the
classroom than publishing.

On the other hand, there are others who understand that college research is
critical, and that, say, studying Subject A often leads to the discovery of
Subject B.

Take Viagra, for instance, after consulting with your doctor.

Viagra was initially researched as a treatment for hypertension and heart
disease.

But scientists soon discovered it had another function when during their testing
something popped up.

During this disagreement on the workings of higher learning, there's been talk
of creating a $10,000 college degree at UT. My prediction: That will happen
about the time the "Kids Eat Free" sign goes up in front of the W Hotel.

Either way, is it really necessary to dig up a cluster of paperwork heavy enough
to give you a hernia?

OK, let's say the district attorney's office finds enough dirt on Hall to
prosecute. What's the proper punishment?

Here's my idea: Make him write down all of the information he collected on a
blackboard with a piece of chalk.

Then, read the whole shebang aloud on the Longhorn Network.

That oughta cure him.

John Kelso's column appears on Sundays. Contact him at jkelso@statesman.com or
512-445-3606.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 31, 2014 Saturday
                                 State Edition

Top Things to Do

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 541 words


'Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'

1, 4 and 7 p.m. Saturday, May 31. $13.41. Boyd Vance Theater, 1165 Angelina St.
512-537-5694. oneartsaustin.com.

One Academy of Dance puts a new twist on this classic tale. Infused with ballet,
jazz, tap and break dancing, "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" is wonderfully
brought to life. See the "mad" tea party and the many eccentric characters, such
as the Cheshire Cat, White Rabbit, Red Queen, White Queen, Alice and more. The
cast will include students and professional artists as they perform the timeless
production that features stunning costumes and creative sets.

Centro-Matic at the Mohawk indoorS

10 p.m. Saturday. $12. 912 Red River St. mohawkaustin.com.

Now 11 albums into their two-decade career, Denton band Centro-Matic has become
part of the old guard of Texas indie rock. They seem less a going concern than
an occasionally reconvening entity these days, with leader Will Johnson having
been welcomed into the Monsters of Folk fold and drummer Matt Pence frequently
busy with studio projects. The new "Take Pride in Your Long Odds" is just the
band's second album since 2008. Pleasant Grove and American Werewolf Academy
open.

- Peter Blackstock

Huapango Sin Fronteras

2 p.m. Saturday. $35. Southeast Austin's Salon, Plaza R3, 7704 FM 973.
Information: huapangosinfronteras.com.

With Huapango bands starting to pop up across the U.S., it wasn't long before
Austin caught on to the wave. This family-friendly festival will have
traditional zapateado dancing, poetry, children's activities and about a dozen
Huapango bands. Music performances will include Raul Orduña Y Los trovadores,
Los Condenados Huastecos, Erupcion Hidalguense and more. And if you are not sure
what a Huapango band is, don't fret, here is a bit of history: Huapango is a
Mexican folk and fast, rhythmic dance tradition that originated in the Huasteca
region of Mexico. This fun-filled, music fest will launch as an effort to
preserve the musical tradition, build community among the growing group of
musicians and raise awareness about the music.

'Blog Reblog' at Big Medium at Canopy

12 to 6 p.m. Tuesdays-Saturdays. Through June 7. 916 Springdale Road, Building
2, No. 103. bigmedium.org.

Austin Center for Photography presents "Blog Reblog," an exhibit that examines
the presence of photos in today's online culture. Artists Max Marshall and Paul
Paper organized the insightful photo show by selecting 200 photographers,
randomly pairing them together, and having each select an image from their
partner's online portfolio. The results are the 200 projected images that are
featured in the thought-provoking exhibition.

'Once There Were Six Seasons'

8 p.m. Saturday. $12-$25. Salvage Vanguard Theatre, 2803 Manor Road.
glasshalffulltheatre.com.

Using hundreds of tiny handmade puppets as well sets and props made from found
objects, textiles, string, paper and recycled Styrofoam packing shapes, Glass
Half Full Theatre Company presents its visually captivating show that imagines a
world dramatically affected by climate change as islands sink into the sea. So
visually arresting is "Once There Were Six Seasons," that its workshop
production last year netted a special citation from the Austin Critics' Table.

- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Pet supply, sub shop chains add locations

BYLINE: Gary Dinges American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 651 words


Austin is a pet-friendly city - and the Pet Supplies Plus chain is looking to
take full advantage of that.

The Michigan-based chain is searching for franchisees to open as many as 15
stores in Central Texas. The area is underserved, executives say, when it comes
to shops selling pet supplies.

Pet Supplies Plus already has one Austin location, at 13450 N. U.S. 183, near
Lakeline Mall.

"There is huge growth potential for Pet Supplies Plus stores in Austin because
our concept is truly one-of-a-kind, our franchise business model is proven and
because the pet industry continues to grow regardless of the economic climate,"
said Larry Flaherty, director of franchise development for Pet Supplies Plus.
"We're committed to finding the right business-savvy franchise partner who loves
pets and is eager to become an integral part of the Austin community."

Each location will employ between 10 and 20 workers, the company said.

Nationwide, there are almost 300 Pet Supplies Plus stores.

For more information, visit pspfranchise.com.

Sub shop expanding

Pet Supplies Plus isn't the only national chain planning to enter the Austin
market.

Las Vegas-based Capriotti's Sandwich Shop will open as many as 20 locations in
Central Texas in the next seven years, the company said.

It already has a presence in other Texas cities, including Dallas and Houston.

"Our locations in Texas have been a great success, and we're excited about the
opportunity to be part of such a vibrant city as Austin," CEO Ashley Morris
said. "The people of Austin are not willing to sacrifice quality for speed, and
we expect them to become very loyal fans."

Head to capriottis.com to learn more about Capriotti's Sandwich Shop.

Garden Ridge's new name

Garden Ridge is getting a new name and a new look.

In October, the Plano-based chain will become At Home, with its stores swapping
out their familiar orange-and-white paint scheme for a more subdued combo: blue,
white and gray.

The changes will cost the company about $20 million, CEO Lee Bird said.

At the same time, At Home will open a new store in Cedar Park and close its
Round Rock location, at 2800 S. Interstate 35, relocating that store to
Pflugerville.

The Cedar Park store will be part of the Cedar Park Town Center development at
the northwest corner of the 183A toll road and East Whitestone Boulevard, while
the Pflugerville store will be part of the Stone Hill Town Center shopping
center, 19000 Limestone Commercial Drive.

The Southwest Austin store, at 5151 U.S. 290, will remain open.

"Our new name, At Home, better reflects our company's home décor heritage, as
well as our aspirations for the future," Bird said.

"At Home continues Garden Ridge's rich, 30-year history dedicated to inspiring
our customers to create a home that reflects their unique personality and style,
both inside and out," he said.

In addition to renovating existing stores, At Home is also in expansion mode,
with plans to build 16 new stores nationwide, including the ones in Cedar Park
and Pflugerville, the company said.

The express lane...

After almost a decade in business, Hem is closing its doors. The store, which
specializes in high-end jeans, has marked down remaining merchandise to clear
its shelves.... Sam's Club has remodeled two of its Austin-area stores. The
location at 9700 N. Capital of Texas Highway (Loop 360) features a new layout
and updated optical and pharmacy departments. At the store at 130 Sundance
Parkway in Round Rock, shoppers will find an updated bakery and expanded photo
and pharmacy departments.... The Bui Yah Kah clothing store at Barton Creek
Square mall has closed. A lockout notice posted on the door indicates the
retailer was more than $30,000 behind on rent.... The city of Cedar Park is
experiencing a retail boom, with new shops and restaurants flocking to the area.
To read my recent story, head to bit.ly/1pdJaJ2.

Contact Gary Dinges at 512-912-5987.

Twitter: @gdinges

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday
                                 State Edition

TOP LOCAL BUSINESS STORIES OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 706 words


CENTER REDEVELOPMENT

$200 million project planned for RBJ Center site: A new future is about to
unfold for a prime waterfront site that for 42 years has been home to the
16-story RBJ Center, an affordable housing development for senior citizens.

A team of local developers has been chosen to transform the nearly 18-acre site
just east of downtown with 250 new units of affordable senior housing, 250 units
of renovated senior housing in the existing building, about 340 units of
market-rent apartments and condominiums for a mix of ages and incomes, and
25,000 square feet of commercial space.

The project is expected to have a price tag of $170 million to $200 million.

Nonprofit Austin Geriatric Center Inc., which owns and operates the RBJ Center,
in January 2012 solicited bids from developers interested in carrying out its
vision for the site, which is north of Festival Beach and has views of downtown
and of Lady Bird Lake. The board told the American-Statesman that it has chosen
Southwest Strategies Group, Momark Development and DMA Development Company LLC
to take on the project.

Plans must go through a city approval process, but developers hope to break
ground by late summer or early fall of 2015 on a new five-story building with
affordable housing units for seniors. Once that building is completed, residents
from the existing tower could move in while the older tower is renovated.

The entire project - including a five-story building envisioned for a mixed-use
development on 9 acres of the site - is expected to cost $170 million to $200
million. Financing would come from a variety of sources, including affordable
housing bond money and tax credits.

"This will provide significantly more high-quality housing for low-income
seniors - and our team is excited to have the opportunity to create a vibrant
community for all ages and incomes in a phenomenal setting that is uniquely
Austin," said Danny Roth, principal of Southwest Strategies Group, managing
partner of the development team.

The idea for the center came from President Lyndon B. Johnson, who in the 1960s
envisioned a place with a continuity of care "for the elderly sick and the
elderly well." It became a reality in 1972 when the apartment tower was built,
named in honor of Johnson's mother, Rebekah Baines Johnson.

TESTY ON TESLA

In Austin, Calif. lawmaker pushes back on Tesla, business recruiting: On his
most recent job-poaching trip to the California Capitol, Gov. Rick Perry -
sporting sun shades and a what-me-worry attitude - joked that the metallic gray
Tesla he was driving would look better if it had a "Made in Texas" bumper
sticker.

The Golden State responded last week with a cardboard cutout of the
California-made car and a message: California isn't losing Tesla's proposed
"gigafactory" and its 6,500 jobs without a fight.

"Tesla was founded in the state of California," said California Republican state
Sen. Ted Gaines, standing in front of the Texas Capitol. "Tesla ought to stay in
California."

Tesla Motors will continue to build its electric cars in California, but the
company founder, Elon Musk, initially snubbed his home state when he said his
company's planned massive battery plant would be built either in Nevada,
Arizona, New Mexico or Texas.

That set off a bidding war - largely in secret - for what some experts have
called the economic development project of the decade.

Under political pressure, Musk relented and allowed California to enter the
competition. Even then, Musk painted California as a long shot because of its
environmental and regulatory climate.

"That's changing," Gaines said Monday.

Gaines is a co-author of a bipartisan bill that declares the California
Legislature's intent to expedite construction of the Tesla battery factory with
financial incentives and changes to regulatory and environmental processes.

"Everything is on the table - tax credits, investment credits, hiring credits,"
Gaines said. "We need to show Tesla that we'll cut through the red tape that
frustrates California companies and prove that we are open for business."

Gaines said California Gov. Jerry Brown and Tesla officials are negotiating the
details. Once there is an agreement, Gaines said, the deal would be amended to
the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sept. 1 is day of danger, abortion law foes claim

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 733 words


The health and safety of Texas women will be endangered if a Texas abortion
regulation, expected to close most state clinics, is allowed to take effect
Sept. 1, lawyers for abortion providers argued Monday as a federal court trial
got underway in brisk fashion.

The regulation, requiring that abortions be performed in facilities that meet
the same standards as ambulatory surgical centers, will force 18 clinics across
Texas to close because they cannot afford to renovate or build a new surgical
center, lawyer Jan Soifer said.

The result will leave a vast swath of the state without a clinic - adding
onerous travel costs that will force some women to delay abortions, bringing a
higher risk of complications, Soifer said. Others will forgo the procedure or
seek dangerous, self-induced abortions, she said.

"There will not be a single abortion clinic south or west of San Antonio,"
leaving almost 1 million Texas women of reproductive age living more than 150
miles from the nearest clinic, Soifer told U.S. Judge Lee Yeakel in his Austin
courtroom.

Deputy Attorney General Jimmy Blacklock said the regulation was intended to
promote health and safety by ensuring that abortions take place in facilities
with a reduced likelihood of complications, and the ability to provide a higher
level of care should complications arise.

Blacklock said the regulation, included in House Bill 2 during last summer's
raucous legislative session, should survive legal scrutiny because clinic owners
cannot prove that the rule would impose an impermissible obstacle for women
seeking an abortion.

Under the regulation, 18 abortion clinics would be forced to close Sept. 1
because they do not meet surgical center standards, leaving seven - soon to be
eight - compliant clinics in Austin, Dallas, Houston, Fort Worth and San
Antonio. Planned Parenthood recently opened a surgical center in Dallas and has
another under construction in San Antonio, and Blacklock argued that other
clinics are exploring the possibility of opening similar facilities.

"If the law is allowed to go into effect, (abortion businesses) will adjust," he
said. "This case is really about the effect of the new health and safety
regulations on the plaintiffs' businesses."

Soifer argued, however, that the cost of creating a surgical center exceeds most
clinics' annual budgets by $600,000 to $1 million, all to meet standards she
called medically unnecessary because abortion is a relatively safe procedure.

Moving rapidly , abortion providers called nine witnesses Monday, including:

Architect George Johannes from Illinois, who testified that building a surgical
center to meet the pending Texas regulation would cost an estimated $3.3
million, not including land, and renovating an existing clinic could cost up to
$2.2 million. Johannes also said Texas' refusal to grandfather existing clinics
into compliance was a "radical departure" from practices in other states, where
most building code changes are not forced on existing structures so that
businesses can operate in a predictable regulatory climate.

Dr. Elizabeth Raymond, a New York obstetrician, who said a study of Medicaid
recipients in California - whose medical histories are complete because
government-paid health care can be tracked - confirmed that abortion patients
have "a low complication rate" of 2.1 percent. A Texas study from 2008 to 2012
found a mortality rate of 0.27 per 100,000 people for women who had received an
abortion, compared with about 27 per 100,000 women who had given birth, Raymond
said.

Dr. Lendol Davis, medical director of the Austin Women's Health Center, who said
he bought an Austin building for $1.1 million in hopes of converting it into a
surgical center but is awaiting financial information before committing. If he
goes forward, construction would take 18 months.

Monday's trial in Austin came as a federal judge in Alabama tossed out that
state's requirement that abortion doctors obtain admitting privileges in a
nearby hospital. Yeakel made a similar ruling last year on a separate challenge
to HB 2, only to be overturned by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

Contact Chuck Lindell at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

what's next
  Abortion providers present their final two witnesses at 9 a.m. Tuesday.
  State lawyers begin their case at 1:30 p.m. Wednesday and hope to finish by
Thursday evening, with time available Friday if needed.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 5, 2014 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Getting 'right' on clean energy?

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 682 words


In what passes for public debate on energy, it's sometimes easy to believe that
conservatives are the fossils in fossil fuels and that liberals are loonies
leading us to an unreliable future where the sun never sets and the wind always
blows.

That can be the view, at least, if you are watching too much cable "news."

If you get out, as I did last month, and actually talk to some conservatives and
liberals, you can end up breaking some stereotypes.

I was attracted to two clean energy events hosted the same week - one by a
vanguard of conservatives and tea party types, the other populated by some of
Austin's finest liberals.

I expected to encounter dueling positions over "clean" energy.

Instead, what I heard was some common interest on topics ranging from the
environment to rooftop solar to taxes.

It was radical.

End subsidies for all energy. Tax pollution. Innovate.

Encourage partnerships with groups like the Sierra Club.

And that was the message from the conservatives.

My head was spinning like a wind turbine.

Now for the caveat.

There were fewer than 100 conservatives at the State Theater event in downtown
Austin. (I think Rick Perry has more lawyers than that.)

And this wasn't your run-of-the-mill, drill-baby-drill message that's an easy
sell in a 30-second political ad.

It was titled: "Getting Energy Right for Texas: A Fresh Conservative Take on
Energy." The sponsors were the Cynthia and George Mitchell Foundation (from the
father of fracking) and the Texas Clean Energy Coalition, proponents of natural
gas and renewable energy.

The panelists included:

Debbie Dooley, founder of the Atlanta Tea Party and the Green Tea Party, which
partners with the Sierra Club on environmental issues. She also is fighting
"monopoly utilities" that don't want rooftop solar to spread over Georgia like
morning dew.

To Dooley, rooftop solar is a freedom issue: I'll give you my solar panel when
you pry it from my cold, dead hands.

Bob Inglis, a former South Carolina congressman who continues his message on
energy and climate issues from a Virginia think tank after the tea party kicked
him out of office in 2010.

* Eli Lehrer, co-founder of R Street Institute, a free-market think tank with
offices in Washington, D.C., Florida, Ohio and Austin.

* Former Texas Sen. Kip Averitt, who now heads the Texas Clean Energy Coalition.

The crux of the evening's message: A free market can more efficiently pick
winners and losers than government regulators can.

But you have to create the right market:

* End all energy subsidies, including those for oil, gas and coal. "I'm all for
drilling but oil companies don't need subsidies," Inglis said.

* Put a tax on energy sources that pollute. "Coal producers should have to pay
to clean up the environment," Dooley said.

Lehrer isn't advocating a windfall for government by taxing pollution. He'd cut
taxes on other segments of the economy.

"Let's tax the stuff (pollution) that we don't want and cut taxes on the stuff
we want," Lehrer.

The panel acknowledged the difficulty of communicating this message in the GOP
primaries, but they insisted it could be done.

Inglis said, "I do believe the tea party will see the power of these ideas
eventually."

Dooley said the secret is rallying pro-environmental conservatives to defend
candidates who adopt this platform: "They want to know there are other
conservative groups who will have their backs."

Two nights after the event, I told Jim Marston, founding director of the Texas
office of the Environmental Defense Fund, about the conservatives' proposal.

"I'd take it in a minute," Marston said.

I told you this is a radical idea.

Truth is, Austin can celebrate its clean energy leadership role all it wants,
but until attitudes change at the Capitol, any gains remain local.

Averitt insists it can happen.

"Thirty years ago, if you were concerned about the environment, you were a
communist and couldn't get elected," Averitt said.

"Today, if you're not concerned about the environment, you are a goober and
can't get elected," he said.

Really?

Who's going to tell the goobers at the Capitol?

Contact Laylan Copelin at 512-445-3617.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

UT-led team gets $58M for fuel study

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 591 words


A research team led by the University of Texas has been awarded $58 million to
analyze deposits of energy-rich methane hydrate - sometimes called fire and ice
or flammable ice - beneath the Gulf of Mexico.

The award for the four-year project is among the largest research grants UT has
ever received and includes $41.3 million from the U.S. Department of Energy. The
balance comes from industry partners such as British energy giant BP and
research partners that include Ohio State University, Columbia University's
Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, the U.S. Geological Survey and the Consortium
for Ocean Leadership.

Methane hydrate is a naturally occurring substance found in vast quantities
beneath the ocean floor and under Arctic permafrost, making it a potential game
changer when it comes to world energy supplies.

But its exact properties are not well understood, and there are daunting
financial and technical obstacles to commercial-scale extraction. What's more,
methane - and the carbon dioxide emitted by burning it - are greenhouse gases
that contribute to global warming.

"One of the key aspects of this project is to get intact samples of methane
hydrate so we can study them in the laboratory," said Peter Flemings, a
professor of geosciences at UT's Jackson School of Geosciences and project
principal investigator.

That's easier said than done, considering some peculiar features of the
substance. Methane is the primary ingredient of natural gas. The methane
deposits at issue are in a setting of high pressure and low temperature that
causes the resulting substance to look like white ice, although the gas
molecules are actually trapped within a crystalline lattice of water molecules.

As the Energy Department explains: "When methane hydrate is â  melted,' or
exposed to pressure and temperature conditions outside those where it is stable,
the solid crystalline lattice turns to liquid water, and the enclosed methane
molecules are released as gas.

This process, called dissociation, can be demonstrated by lighting a match next
to a piece of methane hydrate; the heat from the match will cause the hydrate to
dissociate, and the methane molecules will be ignited as they are released.

This results in the curious spectacle of what appears to be burning ice."

Hence the nickname for the substance, which the Energy Department has adapted
for its methane hydrate newsletter: "Fire in the Ice."

Flemings said the research team plans to drill into the Gulf floor about 100
miles offshore along the Texas and Louisiana coasts. He hopes to use the Joides
Resolution, a research vessel run by a group that includes Texas A&M University.
Part of the challenge is transporting samples to the surface from beneath water
9,000 feet deep without depressurizing the samples.

"The technique is like taking a specimen inside a pressure cooker from thousands
of feet below sea level and bringing it to the surface without ever
depressurizing the pressure cooker," said J. Carlos Santamarina, a methane
hydrate specialist at Georgia Institute of Technology who is not involved in the
project.

It could be 20 or 30 years before commercial use is technically and economically
feasible, Flemings said. Research must also address the potential for
inadvertent releases of methane that could occur in drilling, as well as carbon
dioxide emissions from burning it as a fuel. Nonetheless, he said, methane
hydrate's promise is to serve as a kind of bridge fuel, a cleaner alternative to
coal.

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 25, 2014 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

OBIT: COLEMAN, Edward Robert

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 465 words


COLEMAN, Edward Robert

Edward Robert Coleman, aeronautical engineer, nature lover and intellectual,
died Oct. 23 of non-smoker's lung cancer.

He was 79. He died at home, surrounded by family and friends, at exactly the
time of a partial solar eclipse - a passage he would have appreciated because of
his fascination with outer space.

He was born Feb. 24, 1935, in Detroit, Mich., to Edward Alfred Coleman and June
Coleman. He attended Detroit public schools, where he excelled academically. He
earned an undergraduate degree in aerospace engineering at Wayne State
University, then a master's degree in aerospace engineering from the University
of Michigan.

His first job was as a newspaper delivery boy. After college he worked at
Chrysler Missile, Bendix Systems Division, Conductron Corporation and Tracor
Inc., which later became BAE Systems. Much of his career was spent focused on
designing chaff, tiny metallic shards shot out of planes, ships and rockets to
scramble radar tracking systems.

Family and friends called him Big Ed because of his stature and personality. He
was one of the good guys. A sense of honesty and fairness were hallmarks of his
life, and he made it a point to give credit where it was due. He believed that
we all have a responsibility to stay informed and involved in our community, and
was annoyed that he didn't get to vote this election day.

He had an inquisitive mind. He loved exploring the world, firing off letters to
politicians, whether he agreed with them or not, and debating climate change,
armed with scientific facts. He held a sense of wonder and appreciation for
nature that he passed on to his children.

One of the few things he didn't love was cooked carrots.

He liked sipping coffee and watching the birds as the sun rose. He loved
gardening and devising ways to fend off the deer, who treated his yard as a
salad bar. He loved boiled shrimp and crab, and swooned for Twizzlers.

Most of all he loved his family.

Coleman was preceded in death by his parents. He is survived by his wife Diane,
their daughters Angela Marie (and John) Pierce of Denver; Nancy Allison (and
Brad) Purifoy of Colleyville; Pamela Ann (and Chris) LeBlanc of Austin; Lisa Kay
Huddleston of Rockwall, Texas, and Katherine Young (and Charles) Quinn of
Austin; grandchildren Austin and Sydney Peveler and Lauren, Colin and Hayden
Quinn; his former wife Mary Louise Coleman of South Haven, Mich.; two sisters,
Joan (and Tom) MacFarland and Lynda (and Hans) Neuroth of Michigan; nieces Heidi
(and Andreas) Koese, Heather (and Eric) Siersma; and nephews Peter Neuroth and
Scott MacFarland.

A memorial service is planned for 2 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 1 at Northwest Hills
United Methodist Church, 7050 Village Center Drive.

Arrangements by Cook Walden, 6001 N Lamar Blvd, Austin, TX 78752

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Dallas Fed: Service-sector growth slows in Octoberr

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 444 words


Sales growth at Texas retailers came back down to earth in October after soaring
to its highest post-recession pace the prior month, helping cool the rate of
expansion throughout the state's private service sector, according to a report
Tuesday from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state revenue index, a key indicator of activity at Texas' private
service-providing firms, fell back to a reading of 14.0 this month from 26.9 in
September, according to the monthly Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey.

The lower, positive figure suggested service-sector activity continued to expand
in October, but at a slower pace than the month before.

The sector-wide deceleration stemmed largely from slower growth at Texas
retailers. The state retail sales index dipped to 16.7 this month from 35.5 in
September, according to the Texas Retail Outlook Survey, a subset of the
sector-wide report.

The more moderate retail activity in October came despite a strong jump in
consumer sentiment nationwide. The national Consumer Confidence Index rose to
94.5 this month from 89.0 in September, according to the Conference Board, which
produces the index.

Despite the slower growth in October, Texas retailers kept an even keel on
expectations for both company-specific and general business conditions. The
whole of the state's private service sector wasn't quite as optimistic, but
measures of both the current and future outlook remained in solidly positive
territory, the report said.

Retailers sharply reduced their pace of hiring in October, keeping overall
retail payrolls close to flat during the month, according to the report.

Despite the slower hiring at stores, the pace of employment growth across the
service sector held steady, the report said.

Texas' private, service-providing companies provide about two-thirds of all
nonfarm jobs in the state, according to data from the Texas Workforce
Commission. The same firms account for roughly 60 percent of the state's
economic output, according to the Dallas Fed.

In anonymous comments compiled by the Dallas Fed, service-providing firms noted
a generally decent economic environment, but one beset by potential threats.

Several firms noted the potential impact of the Ebola scare in Dallas, as well
as geopolitical and global economic uncertainties. Others noted concerns about
the impact of governmental regulation, including health care changes.

One professional, scientific and technical services firm said it remained
optimistic that the U.S. economy will continue to improve. But with the
uncertainties here and abroad, the company said it had adopted "a â  wait and
see' attitude for now."

Contact Dan Zehr

at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 22, 2014 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Veterans at forum air gripes over care

BYLINE: Jeremy Schwartz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 425 words


About two dozen Austin-area veterans peppered Department of Veterans Affairs
leaders with questions about slow scheduling procedures, difficulties obtaining
pain medications and what they called sometimes insensitive attitudes among VA
employees during a town hall meeting Thursday evening at the Austin Outpatient
Clinic.

The meeting, billed as a "listening session," was one of ­many scheduled at VA
facilities across the nation in the wake of a scandal involving manipulated data
about patient wait times and quality of care issues that rocked the agency this
summer.

The scandal helped oust former VA Secretary Eric Shin­seki and led to promises
of deep, systemic reform from his replacement, Robert McDonald.

"We know we have a ways to go to get trust back from our veterans," Central
Texas VA Director Sallie Houser-Hanfelder told the crowd. "That's what this is
about."

Houser-Hanfelder said local VA employees would undergo customer service training
after several veterans complained of what they saw as uncaring employees at the
Austin clinic. "You have to change the climate here," one veteran told the
director.

VA officials also pledged to bring in new employees to handle phone calls so
that overwhelmed clerks could better focus on veterans at the clinic.

In an interview before the meeting, Houser-Hanfelder said that no local
employees have been fired over scheduling issues.

McDonald said that as many as 1,000 employees nationwide have been targeted for
termination.

Central Texas VA facilities have been hit hard by allegations of data
manipulation, and the Olin E. Teague Veterans Medical Center in Temple has been
under investigation by the FBI over allegations of criminal activity, including
the possible shredding of documents. In June, officials flagged the Austin
clinic and several other facilities for "further review" of their scheduling
practices.

This spring, a VA employee accused the department's leadership in Austin and San
Antonio of ordering scheduling clerks to enter false information to make it
appear that wait times for appointments were shorter than they really were. The
employee also said schedulers were trained not to use an electronic wait list
because it could reveal embarrassingly long wait times.

Houser-Hanfelder said that all Central Texas clerks have since been trained on
proper scheduling procedures. As part of the newly passed Veterans Choice Act,
the VA recently began funneling more veterans with long wait times to medical
providers outside of the VA network.

Contact Jeremy Schwartz at 512-912-2942.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Giving shape to Austin

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 3235 words


There was a time during the pre-Civil War hysteria of the mid-1850s when all
Mexicans were expelled from Austin.

And for more than a century after that, social and political isolation kept
Mexican-Americans and other Latinos at a cultural arm's length from other groups
in the city.

Many believe that the achievements of Austin's Hispanic community still are not
widely understood, respected or recognized.

That is changing fast, like the city's demographics.

But how? Where is the Hispanic influence most tangible in Austin's culture?
Where is it overlooked? How will that change in a decade?

Dozens of Hispanic notables recently surveyed by the American-Statesman did not
agree on the answers. Some rejected outright the notion that culture can be
comprehended outside of the individual stories of Austinites.

Given that plausible doubt, however, they frequently mentioned the impact of a
tremendously diversified Hispanic culture on food, language and the arts. They
also dug into politics, education and material culture here.

"It has shaped the very fabric of the city in many ways," said Lilia Rosas of
Red Salmon Arts. "It has shaped art, music and literature; in the murals that
beautify East Austin; the festivals that celebrate the indigenous sounds of the
accordion, jarana, or guitar; or the spoken word and poetry that reveals our
complex of language, experiences and histories."

The background

Hispanic cultural presence in Central Texas predates the arrival of non-Hispanic
settlers and African-Americans, though not Native Americans. The Spanish planted
missions along El Camino Real de los Tejas, including three, briefly, in the
Austin area during the 1730s.

Tejanos deepened that early cultural influence after Mexican independence, as
historian Andres Tijerina has shown, and some participated in the Texas
Revolution. During the 19th century, Mexicans - as all Latinos were often called
by newcomers - increased their impact on Austin.

In the late 19th century and early 20th century, migrants picked cotton or moved
into town to open businesses and to work in factories, including the chili plant
that rose at the center of the Mexican district in the southwestern quadrant of
downtown. The descendants of those families still tell stories about communities
of kinship and connection.

As University of Texas historian Emilio Zamora has pointed out, the early
political culture of Mexican-Americans here was informed by mutual aid societies
and the pull of Mexican nationalism.

"We that have been born in this country understand our responsibilities as
citizens," Zamora quotes activist and labor organizer Clemente N. Idar from a
1915 article. "But we also feel a profound love for and most exalted interest in
our mother race because we are by destiny her progeny. This nationality and this
deep love for the Mexican race runs like blood through our veins."

That center of Hispanic cultural gravity moved to East Austin in the 1920s with
the transfer of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church to East Ninth Street. After that,
Anglos often encountered Hispanic culture first through businesses such as
Matt's El Rancho, El Matamoros, El Azteca, Cisco's, the Spanish Village and the
Tamale House.

Families such as the Lim³ns, Estradas, Camachos and others established extensive
social and cultural networks in town. The collective pull of family and
community is a common theme.

"To non-Hispanics unfamiliar with Hispanic culture, this can be misinterpreted
as a sign that the importance placed on family and community and being humble
impedes individual achievement and advancement," said lawyer Maria Luisa "Lulu"
Flores. "Which is far from true. Others must learn to distinguish that
Hispanics' cooperation, respect and humility is very different from being docile
and dependent and underachieving."

Although Latinos agitated as far back as the 1940s for equal footing, it was not
until the Economy Furniture Company strike of 1968-72 - and later protests
against speedboat races on Town Lake - that Hispanics and their allies organized
to win.

"It's taken a while for the people on the west side to accept equal citizenship
for us," former Travis County Commissioner Richard Moya said. "Anglos liked our
food, but they didn't really like us. It took cultural change to realize that,
though our color is different, we aren't really different."

Political pioneers - such as Moya, John Trevino, Gus Garcia, Margaret G³mez and
Gonzalo Barrientos - rose to positions of power and communitywide leadership.

"Less well known is the political muscle that Roy Velasquez, founder of Roy's
Taxi, and Rudy Cisneros, the owner of Cisco's, flexed before any of them were
elected," said former American-Statesman editorial page editor Arnold Garcia,
who covered Austin for four decades. "Cisneros and Velasquez were tough,
colorful and economically independent."

Meanwhile, historians, folklorists and community activists - such as Zamora,
Tijerina, Martha Cotera, Carlos Castaneda, Americo Paredes, Maggie
Rivas-Rodriguez, Danny Camacho and Gloria Espitia, as well as Ben and Delia
Sifuentes - collected stories, identified trends and distinguished among the
strands of Hispanic cultural legacy.

More recently, Hispanics have risen to the top of the business, legal and
nonprofit worlds. Relative newcomers such as Monica Peraza, who runs highly
touted businesses and nonprofits, are among the current wave of fresh faces from
South and Central America, the Caribbean, Europe, the rest of North America and
parts of Mexico not previously major sources of migration.

Rich Garza, director of the Pachanga Latino Music Festival, believes Austin's
profusion of Hispanic culture is underestimated.

"I think the least understood part is how fragmented the culture is," he said.
"And that, in some instances, it competes with itself, especially with how
things have changed in the last 15 years or so with the arrival of more
immigrants from Latin America and Mexico of all classes."

Playwright and theater producer Rupert Reyes agrees.

"The other impact on Mexican-American Austinites is that they are caught in the
middle," Reyes said. "They are being squeezed by the new immigrants, since they
don't relate directly to each other, and (by) the Anglo population that sees all
brown people as Mexicans."

One ever-present reminder of concrete contributions from Latinos can be seen at
any construction site.

"Latinos are literally shaping our city, building it brick by brick," musician
Gina Chavez said. "But they're also being asked to pay the price, often with
their health or even their lives."

The influence doesn't stop with manual laborers.

"Since the 1970s, a battery of lawyers, bankers, real estate brokers, all part
of the infrastructure necessary to facilitate growth and development, have taken
their places in the development of modern Austin," Arnold Garcia said. "So
Latinos not only provided the brawn, but the brains, that are necessary to a
city's growth.... This is our home, and we affect the city both positively and
negatively, just like every other population group."

Food and fashion

Starting with the breakfast taco, Austinites of all backgrounds recognize the
almost universal adoption of Hispanic foodways.

"Austin is a lifestyle town," said writer Vicente Lozano. "A place where, over
the last 30 years, quality of life and consumable lifestyle have become
inextricable. Mexican food has always set the stage for that laid-back party."

Two core Austin cuisines - Tex-Mex and barbecue - borrow heavily from Latino
traditions. Interior Mexican and other Latin American ingredients, dishes and
dining rituals have won more followers since the opening of Fonda San Miguel in
the 1970s.

"There were a lot of pioneers such as Matt's El Rancho and Spanish Village that
were serving chili con queso and taquitos way before it was on trend," said
marketing executive Lonnie Lim³n, whose Austin-based family counts 3,500
members. "And, according to my dad, there were many earlier restaurants along
Red River, which in earlier days was a main street for Mexican families in
Austin."

Charity leader and former TV anchor Olga Campos thinks Austin's booming Hispanic
population and its foodways have helped turn it into a real city.

"I can't even imagine a wedding, birthday, anniversary or get-together with
friends and family, regardless of their ethnicity, that doesn't include some
portion of Mexican food, beer, tequila, salsa music, a pi±ata or other colorful
decorations," Campos said. "Hispanics add dimension, distinction and diversity
to the fabric of this city, and we do so in a warm and welcoming way."

Taco trucks, once confined to poor neighborhoods or work sites, predate the
explosion of food trailers that, in some ways, define contemporary Austin
eating.

"Today, the taco has been absorbed by others in Austin and Anglicized," Margaret
G³mez said. "I remember in the mid-1990s buying tacos al pastor from a lady who
sold them from a trailer on Riverside Drive. Before I knew it, there were
trailers all over Austin selling food."

Alone among the respondents, Rich Garza suggests that, along with food, Texas'
sartorial style evolved from Hispanic influences.

He has a point: "On the fashion side, and bear with me here, with the whole
notion of Spanish vaqueros being the original cowboys: The big hats and boots
that have become a staple of American West evolved out of this tradition."

Language and faith

Start with the names of our rivers, streets and towns. The Spanish language,
mostly variations on the Castellano dialect, is everywhere around us.

A sore point: Over time, Spanish words such as "Manchaca" and "Guadalupe" became
abbreviated or mispronounced.

"Back when I was in college here in the mid-'70s, one of my journalism
classmates, Roy Ortega, of El Paso, got fired from his radio reporting job
because he refused to pronounce Guadalupe as 'Guadaloop,'" Rivas-Rodriguez, a UT
professor said. "To mispronounce our heritage language, especially when we know
better, is to celebrate ignorance. And we're in beautiful, smart, enlightened
Austin, Texas. We're better than that!"

All one has to do is stay alert to hear and see the pervasive bilingualism of
the city.

"I think the biggest cultural impact that Latinos will have in Austin's future
may be a stronger sense of the value of bilingualism and cultural competence,"
legislative aide Perla Cavazos said. "I'm observing this interesting trend among
my non-Latino friends, and also Latinos like me, whose families have been here
for generations, who want their children to be bilingual in both English and
Spanish."

It might not always be appreciated, but fluency in more than one culture can
prove to be an enduring asset.

"My mother is Mexican, and throughout my childhood, I would travel back and
forth between Mexico and the United States, seeing firsthand the cultural
differences between my white community and Mexican heritage," said Cristina
Tzintzºn, director of the Workers Defense Project. "She always taught me that my
greatest gift was my ability to understand and travel between these two
disparate worlds. When I arrived in Austin for college, I fell in love with the
way that these two worlds came together here."

Arts and entertainment

Naturally, in a creative city, Hispanic culture permeates live music, art,
theater, museums, folk arts and festivals, all refinements of more mundane
cultural expressions.

"Austin thrives on 'keeping it weird,'" said Roen Salinas, director of Aztlan
Dance Company. "Which, for me, translates into keeping it real, creative and
individually expressive. As such, Austin culture challenges larger social
norms/values and cultural frameworks of conformity. Historically, Hispanic - and
more specifically, Tejano - culture... has been one of cooperation,
collaboration, evolution and shared mutual interests in order to develop a
greater place to live."

While such pioneers as Little Joe y La Familia, Joe King Carrasco and the Nash
Hernandez Orchestra broke through cultural barriers, Hispanic musicians such as
Grupo Fantasma, Los Lonely Boys, Vallejo, Leticia Rodriguez and Gina Chavez are
now deeply embedded in Austin's musical identity.

"I'm constantly surprised by the positive responses I receive from music lovers
of all ages and backgrounds," Chavez said. "They seem to love the bilingual
songs, and English speakers are often most drawn to the Spanish songs, wishing
they, too, could understand all the lyrics. They truly seem to connect, not only
to the infectious rhythms of our Latin-tinged music, but to the lyrics and
emotion of the songs themselves, and I find that extremely refreshing."

Muralist Fidencio Duran works in a tradition that can be traced directly back to
Mexico.

"I see the greatest impact by Hispanic culture being the contribution of
maintaining a connection between the visual arts and the social causes and
aspirations of the community," Duran said. "It continued the narrative and
representational approach used by the regionalists and Mexican muralists before
World War II and the advent of abstract expressionism."

It helps to have at the city's fingertips the Benson Latin American Collection
and the Blanton Museum of Art at the University of Texas, as well as the Austin
History Center, Mexic-Arte Museum and the Emma Barrientos Mexican American
Cultural Center. They preserve and make available a vast and varied cultural
heritage.

What will keep Austin in the global cultural game?

"Austin's proximity to Mexico," said Mexic-Arte Museum's director, Sylvia
Orozco. "The vibrancy of the creative community, the large Latino population,
position Austin as a nexus for international and local and national bicultural
exchange, and collaboration."

The future

Nobody surveyed claimed to predict the future. And almost everyone acknowledged
that how we live our everyday lives isn't always reflected in broad cultural
gestures. But several pointed to the rapidly growing number of Hispanic youth
living with multiple influences as a sign of what's to come.

"The impact sits in our classrooms every day," said nonprofit and education
consultant Marisa Lim³n. "Austin school district's student body is 60 percent
Latino, and many of these young people are bilingual, bicultural, digital
natives. Their unique perspective will highly influence a rapidly changing
Austin."

Still others feel that Hispanic Austinites could lead any future cultural
developments.

"An additional future impact is that the Hispanic culture enables Austin to
become a more forward-thinking global city," musician Leticia Rodriguez said.
"The Hispanic culture, while sharing a common language, is global. With
attention, awareness and hard work, Hispanic contributions both present and
forthcoming bring the hope of a more inclusive society for all humankind."

Education remains a key.

"I believe we're at a crossroads where we can look for the Class of at the Dell
Medical School and see that they reflect the demographics of today's
second-graders," said Rivas-Rodriguez. "It can be done if we have high
expectations for them and if we celebrate all that they bring to the table -
including the Spanish language."

What about assimilation? Could Hispanics lose what is already a heterogeneous
legacy?

"Not my children so much, but my grandchildren and great-grandchildren are not
going to remember any of this," Moya predicted. "They are already assimilating.
They aren't going to feel the same way about our culture as I do. If an
18-year-old came in here right now and we asked her about Tejano music, she
wouldn't know what we were talking about."

The respondents generally agreed that young Hispanics have no choice but to take
leadership positions in all aspects of Austin's culture.

Second- and third-generation Mexican-Americans are increasingly being encouraged
to "cultivate a mindset that the future of Austin also includes them," said Mike
Avila, webmaster for the Texas State Library and Archives and a longtime
Austinite. "There is always a certain comfort in keeping things the way you are
used to and staying in the past, but the key is to keep what is good about our
culture and our past, but know that you are also a vital part of Austin's
future, which means to become more connected and participatory to the city's
economy and politics."

Former Commissioner Moya thinks the cultural curiosity is the key to everything:
"If you don't know the other people in this community, if you just stay in your
part of town, you know, the way Austin used to be, we will be lost."

Contact Michael Barnes

at 512-445-3970.

Twitter: @outandabout

Taco Evolution
  Adam Winters and Jessica Galindo Winters opened Mellizoz Tacos - originally
Izzoz - on South First Street in 2009. It's named for the couple's fraternal
twins (mellizo in Spanish). The husband and wife met while attending Bowie High
 School and their families go back at least four generations in Austin.
  Both sides participated in the hospitality field. Jessica's family, for
instance, owned La Casa Loma restaurant on East Seventh Street; La Loma is the
historical name for the nearby neighborhood. Renowned taco journalist Mando
Rayo says Mellizoz embodies the old and new schools of Austin tacos.
  "They serve the traditional bean, cheese and egg breakfast taco," Rayo said
while enjoying samples at the popular food truck. "But this is a great,
creative town, and they get creative."
  This day, for instance, Jessica was making a taco of seared salmon, purple
cabbage, roasted corn relish and roasted Hatch aioli. "They are the next
generation of the taco," Rayo said.


About our survey on Hispanic culture
  We asked several dozen Hispanic notables to respond to questions about the
biggest influence of Hispanic cultures on Austin, as well as the least
understood influences and the potential future impact. The respondents
frequently mentioned food, language and the arts, but they also dug into
subjects such as politics, education and material culture. Find their complete
answers on MyStatesman.com. Their responses will inform future stories on
Hispanic life in Austin as well.


Growing Austin
  Growing Austin, an American-Statesman occasional series examining the impact
of growth, is focusing this fall on the area's growing Hispanic population.
Stories are exploring changes ahead for politics, education, health, culture
and other aspects of Central Texas life affected by this demographic shift.
  More online
  Fiesta Patria video:
  "Grito" celebration at
  Capitol draws thousands
  of Mexican-Americans honoring their roots.
  Austin Gente video:
  New video and story series explores what it means to be Latino in the U.S. in
 the midst of a changing cultural landscape.
  Political Dreamer video: Meet Pedro Villalobos, a politically active Dreamer
with a fresh perspective on the politics of immigration.
  One Austin,
  muchas comunidades: Read previous stories in the series at
statesman.com/growingaustin.


Reading list
  "Mexican Americans in Texas History," edited by Emilio Zamora, Cynthia Orozco
 and Rodolfo Rocha
  "Writing Austin's Lives: A Community Portrait,"
  People of Austin
  "Lone Star Pasts: Memory and History in Texas,"
  edited by Gregg Cantrell and Elizabeth Hayes Turner
  "Tejanos and Texas Under the Mexican Flag,
  1821-1836," by Andres Tijerina
  "Austin Breakfast Tacos," by Mando Rayo and Jarod Neece
  "Hispanic Texas: A Historical Guide,"
  edited by Helen Simons and Cathryn Hoyt
  "With a Pistol in His Hand," by Americo Paredes


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 27, 2014 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

CantoMundo poets boost literary scene

BYLINE: Nancy Flores American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T8

LENGTH: 792 words


I had never heard anything like it before. Listening to the pioneering Chicano
poet Raºl Salinas read his work a decade ago at Resistencia Bookstore, it hit
me.

There at the humble but warm community space he founded, I realized that poetry
didn't have to be academic or pretentious.

It could be raw, relatable and created by someone who looked like me.

For Latino and Latina poets who sometimes sprinkle Spanish or Spanglish in their
work or discuss identity, the border or biculturalism, it's not always easy to
fit neatly into a creative writing box.

After having their work dismissed in mainstream creative-writing circles, five
local poets decided to launch CantoMundo, a national poetry workshop. The
fellowship program encourages Latino poets to come together to learn, network
and enhance their poetics.

"We felt like we needed a home," says Celeste Guzm(degrees)n Mendoza, one of the
founders. "Our goal is to provide a safe space for Latino poets to write and
have their work critiqued - a place where their identity is not questioned and
the focus is on the work."

The best part is the chance to hear these nationally recognized poets share
powerful pieces for free. On July 11-12, the Emma S. Barrientos Mexican American
Cultural Center will host back-to-back poetry nights.

Each night features award-winning guest poets Lorna Dee Cervantes (Friday) and
Rafael Campo (Saturday) and CantoMundo fellows at the Black Box Theater from 8
p.m. to 10 p.m. This year's 23 CantoMundo fellows range from World Slam Poetry
Champions to doctoral candidates.

Some of the fellows include Peggy Robles-Alvarado, a Puerto Rican and Dominican
tenured New York City educator and writer, and Lupe M©ndez, a Houston-based
performance poet who has opened up for writers such as Esmeralda Santiago and
Dagoberto Gilb. A complete list of fellows is at cantomundo.org.

After five years, CantoMundo has become a competitive program where accomplished
poets apply because "they want to raise the profile of Latino poetry so it
becomes a part of what we all learn and not just something that gets on a side
shelf in the library," Guzm(degrees)n Mendoza says.

Unique show ties

together music, art

One of the perks of living in a creative city is that we can experience things
such as listening to a live string quartet playing Latin American music while
being surrounded by significant works of Latin American art.

On July 24 at noon, head to the Blanton Museum of Art to soak up Latin American
culture in a unique presentation in collaboration with Austin Chamber Music.

At the free gallery concert, a bilingual discussion will reveal the relationship
between the music and the art on display at the America/Americas installation at
the museum, which includes art from Mexico to Uruguay.

Enjoy music by contemporary Latin American composers and arrangements of popular
songs by Cuban singer Margarita Lecuona, Mexican songwriter Agust­n Lara and
tango music by Carlos Gardel and Astor Piazzolla of Argentina.

The program is part of the Austin Chamber Music's Hispanic Outreach Concerts.
Learn more at austinchambermusic.org and blantonmuseum.org.

Sounds of Africa,

Latin America

Explore the sounds of Africa and Latin America at a special live music show in
honor of several local world music enthusiasts who celebrate a birthday in July,
including Michael Crockett, host of KUTX-FM radio programs "Horizontes" and "
Global Grooves" and guitarist Russell Scanlon.

The celebration brings together Cuban son, Brazilian samba and African soukous
in one dance party at the North Door starting at 8 p.m. July 11 with a DJ set by
Crockett.

Partygoers will be treated to a special reunion featuring Susanna Sharpe & the
Samba Police, one of Austin's most popular Brazilian bands of the 1980s and
1990s.

The band plays Brazilian beats including samba, bossa nova, a traditional
Northeastern Brazilian dance music called forr³ and more.

Other performers include Son y No Son, a Cuban son-inspired band that branches
out to play Colombian cumbias and a fusion of global rhythms.

Closing out the celebration, ($10 cover), will be Tamasha Africana, a band
reuniting after four years apart.

Tamasha Africana brings the guitar-based festive music of Congolese soukous to
Austin.

Contact Nancy Flores at 512-912-2559.

WELCOME TO CULTURA EN AUSTIN
  Cultura en Austin is a monthly column highlighting Latino-related cultural
events in Austin. Look for it on the last Friday of the month.
  Nancy Flores grew up in the Texas border town of Eagle Pass, and has been
covering Latino culture for the American-Statesman and Austin360 since 2011.
Before that, she covered Latino issues as a journalist in Mexico City. Send
tips or suggestions to nflores@statesman.com


Nancy Flores
  Cultura en Austin
  Twitter: @latinoculture


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               84 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 10, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

UT withdraws from Olympics project

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1349 words


Three years ago, the University of Texas arranged to borrow, catalog and
digitize a massive archive of materials concerning the Olympics. A UT news
release trumpeted that the 350-box collection would provide "a wealth of
information" on the negotiation of television rights, efforts to stamp out
doping and the inner functioning of the highly secretive Olympic movement.

Now, just weeks before the Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, the university has
quietly returned the collection to its owner, Montreal's McGill University,
which lacks the resources to process it for public and scholarly research. UT
officials aren't saying why they have given up on the project, but the decision
comes amid litigation in Texas and California over the collection between the
university and donors of more than $3 million.

The archive was given to McGill by Richard W. Pound, a former chancellor of that
university who served on the International Olympic Committee for many years,
including two stints as vice president. Pound is also a former president of the
World Anti-Doping Agency.

Pound said it's his understanding that UT officials concluded that the archive
contains an abundance of private or confidential material, including some
records that he perhaps shouldn't have had in his possession.

"They see too many problems, which I find astonishing," he told the Statesman.
"It's not as if we were asking in the Olympic movement about atomic secrets."

A prolific collector over the decades, Pound amassed 400,000 pages of documents
as well as Olympic pins, medals, torches, statuettes and coin sets.

The records cover many subjects, including the slaying of Israeli athletes at
the 1972 Munich Games, the U.S. boycott of the 1980 Moscow Games in response to
the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, negotiations for TV rights and marketing
sponsorships, and Pound's investigation of the 2002 Salt Lake City bidding
scandal, which led to closer monitoring of interactions between cities seeking
to host games and members of the International Olympic Committee.

"It's a wonderful little treasure trove. I don't think there's an equal anywhere
in the world," Pound said, adding that it includes copies of minutes from all
International Olympic Committee meetings since the Swiss-based organization was
established in 1894.

UT officials declined to comment on Pound's remarks.

The archive became the subject of litigation after a once-warm relationship
between the university and a longtime Pound associate turned cold, according to
court documents, emails and other records. That person - author, psychologist
and former UT gymnast Steven Ungerleider - was instrumental in arranging for his
alma mater to borrow the collection from McGill.

Under UT's January 2011 agreement with McGill, the Austin campus was expected to
catalog and digitize the Pound archive so that portions would be available for
research. That process included legal analysis to determine which portions
cannot be disclosed because they contain confidential, private or copyrighted
material.

The collection "provides a wealth of information on the recent history of the
Olympic movement, its public image, a private view of its inner functioning and
the role of one of its major representatives," says an April 2011 UT news
release. "The collection also includes correspondence from all over the world,
often with personal notes from friends, colleagues and unknown people."

The university acknowledged Ungerleider's pivotal role, naming him in 2011 as an
unpaid research fellow in its Texas Program in Sports and Media, which he helped
organize. Ungerleider is also a member of UT's Development Board, a fundraising
group, and the advisory council for the university's Ransom Center, an arts and
humanities research library.

"Words can't express my gratitude for the full scope of your support for and
engagement with TPSM," Michael Cramer, the program's director, wrote to
Ungerleider in September 2011. "The only appreciation truly fitting is a couple
of long-necked Lone Stars."

Less than two years after that, UT Communication Dean Roderick Hart told
Ungerleider that he was being dismissed from his position as a fellow and from
the advisory board of the Texas Program in Sports and Media.

"I realize that this will seem unjust and unfair to you, given how important you
have been to the formation of TPSM," Hart wrote in an email to Ungerleider in
February 2013. "But the tensions surrounding your participation in TPSM
activities have now become so extreme (and the emails so vitriolic) that I can
no longer stand by and watch our young program be further damaged."

One month later, Ungerleider filed a petition in state District Court in Travis
County seeking permission to take depositions, or sworn statements, from Hart
and other university officials in preparation of a lawsuit. According to the
petition, Ungerleider had been permitted to participate for a time in the review
of the Pound collection but was "entirely excluded" after he disagreed with the
extent to which materials would be withheld for copyright or confidentiality
concerns.

Ungerleider's interest in the collection wasn't entirely altruistic. "Dr.
Ungerleider has been offered a seven-figure contract for a seventh book, the
contents of which were to be drawn from research into the materials in the Pound
Collection," the petition said.

Ungerleider withdrew that petition in April, and the Foundation for Global
Sports Development, of which he is a founding trustee, sued UT the following
month in state Superior Court in Los Angeles. The Los Angeles-based nonprofit
foundation, with $30.2 million in assets, provides grants to numerous sports
organizations around the world, according to its filing with the Internal
Revenue Service.

The suit contends that UT made false promises of access to the Pound collection
to induce the foundation to donate more than $3 million to the university. The
suit also claims that UT falsely promised that it would match the foundation's
donations.

The foundation asked the court to order UT to grant access to the archive or,
alternatively, to send the archive back to McGill and reimburse the foundation
for its donations. Now that the archive is in Canada, the request for access
appears moot.

UT says in a court filing that it never promised preferential access in exchange
for donations and argues that the case belongs in a Texas court, not in
California. UT's Moody College of Communication has a small campus in Los
Angeles for students interested in television, film and other
entertainment-related fields. The case is pending.

In November, Ungerleider filed suit in state District Court in Travis County
against UT and two university officials, Patricia Ohlendorf, vice president for
legal affairs, and Cramer, the director of the Program in Sports and Media.
Ungerleider contends that the defendants urged employees and others to retaliate
against him on account of the California lawsuit.

The nature of the alleged retaliation isn't specified, but the withdrawn request
for depositions said that administrators had contacted officials at the Ransom
Center regarding his unpaid position on its advisory council. The November
lawsuit seeks documents and emails concerning Ungerleider, the foundation and
the California litigation.

Philip Durst, Ungerleider's lawyer for the retaliation claim, declined to
elaborate.

Paul Malingagio, a lawyer for the foundation in the California case, said of the
archive's return to McGill in December, "We were surprised to hear this."

Ungerleider declined to comment.

Carole Graveline, a spokeswoman for McGill, said the Pound collection would be
placed in archival storage until the university has the resources to process it.

In a statement, UT said, "The university dealt with all matters regarding the
Pound Collection in an appropriate way. Nothing was ever misrepresented.

"We will review and reply to the unfounded allegations in this latest lawsuit
through the proper legal channels. The university has not retaliated against Dr.
Ungerleider in any way."

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

UT blasts its antagonist in Olympic archive dispute

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 603 words


The University of Texas is playing hardball in a long-running legal dispute with
author, psychologist and alumnus Steven Ungerleider stemming from the handling
of a major archive of the international Olympic movement.

In papers filed in state District Court in Travis County last week, the
university's outside lawyers accused Ungerleider of "bizarre" and
"inappropriate" behavior, including "playing dumb" about a lawsuit his
foundation had filed against UT.

The court papers include copies of emails in which Ungerleider used vulgar
language and otherwise expressed dismay with university officials on a variety
of topics, including their refusal to give him a ticket to hear President Barack
Obama speak at a civil rights summit on campus in April.

"Enough is enough," the lawyers wrote. "Dr. Ungerleider is abusing the rules of
civil procedure, once again opening his seemingly unlimited war chest to chase
after shadows and inconvenience people associated with UT to the greatest extent
possible."

Doug Becker, a lawyer for Ungerleider, brushed off the emails as irrelevant. "It
just looks like a personal attack," Becker said. "I think it's ironic that their
defense to a possible slander case is an ad hominem attack."

Ungerleider contended in papers last month that his critics might well have
defamed him or retaliated against him after a settlement in May that was
supposed to resolve differences. He sought a court order forcing 16 people -
including high-level university officials and boosters who contribute money or
time to UT - to submit to questioning under oath as a prelude to a possible
lawsuit.

Judge Lora Livingston refused, telling Becker at a hearing Wednesday that it
"just sounds like you are fishing." She said there was insufficient detail about
the substance of the testimony he wanted to elicit through depositions, but she
left open the possibility that the request could be revised.

Ungerleider, who lives in Eugene, Ore., and owns a condominium in Austin, has
written six books, including an examination of state-sponsored doping of
athletes in East Germany. More recently, he helped negotiate plans to build a
memorial in Munich to the 11 Israeli athletes slain by Palestinian terrorists at
the 1972 Olympic Games.

His once-warm relationship with his alma mater turned cold amid an ill-fated
effort to make Richard W. Pound's Olympic archive available for public and
scholarly research. Pound, who served for many years on the International
Olympic Committee, donated the 350-box collection to McGill University in
Montreal, and Ungerleider helped UT borrow it. UT abruptly returned the
collection, citing privacy, copyright and other concerns.

UT settled lawsuits filed by Ungerleider and the Foundation for Global Sports
Development, of which he is a founding trustee, in May, agreeing to pay the
foundation $405,000 and to give Ungerleider a VIP parking pass good on campus
through August 2019.

In a March 7 email to Robert Hutchings, dean of the LBJ School of Public
Affairs, Ungerleider said his side has spent $5 million in legal fees "fighting
over this stupid (expletive deleted) Pound collection."

In a March 31 email, Ungerleider said his "heart is broken" because he wasn't
given a ticket to Obama's speech - although he was given tickets to see former
Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter.

And in a Nov. 13, 2013, email, Ungerleider claimed not to know about the
litigation after Stephen Enniss, director of UT's Harry Ransom Center, mentioned
it. Ungerleider wrote that he was "perplexed" by "this odd information."

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 31, 2014 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

Matthew Odam's Top 25 restaurants

BYLINE: Matthew Odam American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T5

LENGTH: 5381 words


2 Qui

1600 E. Sixth St. 512-436-9626, QuiAustin.com

What's a sellout? Someone who forsakes their uniqueness and does what is
expected or demanded of them for financial gain or vanity. Basically: taking the
easy way out.

Paul Qui is no sellout.

After destroying the competition on "Top Chef" in 2012, the former Uchiko
executive chef could have opened his own highly visible take on the massively
popular restaurant, played to expectations, sat back and counted his money.

Instead he followed his passion. Qui opened a restaurant on a bar-lined part of
still-developing East Sixth Street, the stomping grounds of many
service-industry workers. The stark white building echoes a blank slate or a lab
coat indicative of experimentation. He didn't even put his famous name in an
easily noticeable spot.

Returning to the Filipino roots of his mother's family and nodding to global
influences he picked up in travels following his sudden fame, Qui developed an
initial menu that included Filipino pork blood stew, Spanish-inspired hen rice,
and an artful dish of vegetables that paid homage to French chef Michel Bras.

Then, after about a year in business, Qui decided to scrap the a la carte menu
for a seven-course tasting menu. There is still evidence of the original menu,
though with minor tweaks. The marcona almond gazpacho, poured into a mug ringed
with foie gras that looks like pencil shavings, now has a silkier and smoother
consistency. The pork blood dinuguan has gone from a bowl of stew with gnocchi
to a velvety blanket for grilled maitake mushrooms.

Qui has not left his seafood past completely behind. Chefs, who deliver the food
they prepare to each table, sear pink pieces of albacore on sizzling mini-logs
of white oak tableside, the mildly fatty fish absorbing the fragrant smoke and
the herbal mojo verde made with garlic, parsley and cilantro.

Meals at Qui will likely introduce diners to new flavors. A recent dinner marked
my first encounter with coconut vinegar, which bathed tender chicken thigh meat
pulled from the bone, as well as chardonnay vinegar, used in the albacore dish.

The creativity at Qui extends to its exceptional bar program that preceded a
recent glass of bourbon and apricot brandy with palate-cleansing basil-seed
"caviar."

The tiny bar may offer the best solo dining option at Qui, as you can order the
tasting menu or select from a bar menu (reserved for patio diners) that includes
chicken and pork kebabs and Filipino ceviche.

Qui recently added a ticketed chef's table option that includes dozens of dishes
and gives the chef and his accomplished team even greater range to express their
ingenuity. The evolutionary changes at the restaurant during its first 15 months
in business are illustrative of Qui's culinary curiosity, adaptability and
adherence to his unique vision.

Contact Matthew Odam at 512-912-5986.

Twitter: @odam

3 Uchi/Uchiko

Uchi: 801 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-916-4808, UchiAustin.com

Uchiko: 4200 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-916-4808, Uchi-Austin.com/Uchiko

Each year, I go back and forth on whether to lump chef Tyson Cole's Uchi and
Uchiko together or keep them separate. They may be in the same family, but they
aren't identical twins. Uchiko translates to "son of Uchi," but it might be more
accurate to call it "spirited kid brother of Uchi." The open restaurant forsakes
the intimacy of its forerunner for a louder and more visible dining experience.

At Uchiko you can still enjoy the elegant nigiri pieces like sake toro (fatty
salmon) and shime saba (mackerel with a teardrop of truffle oil) that you find
at Uchi, but the North Lamar restaurant grills and pan-fries more items and
plays with a broad array of Asian influences as evidenced in the Tiger Cry roll
(a steak-filled take on Thai flavors), fried chicken karaage and
coconut-sweetened mussels.

Both restaurants deliver flawless service and dazzle with execution. You should
always order from the restaurants' daily specials menus - no matter how hard it
is to resist the maguro sashimi (big eye tuna with goat cheese, pumpkin seed oil
and green apple) or hama chili (yellowtail with Thai chili and oranges)
available at both. On the rotating specials menu you'll find items like a raw
oyster sweetened and piqued with watermelon and ginger, Santa Barbara sea urchin
(Uchiko), or a nutty and woodsy mackerel topped with toasted sesame and onion
(Uchi).

Uchiko and Uchi both have solid dessert offerings, such as the playful fried
milk at the former and peanut butter semifreddo topped with a reviving
apple-miso sorbet at the latter, but I get my end-of-meal, sweet-tooth fix with
fish caramel. It glazes the seared beef tongue at Uchiko and the sensual and
transformative nigiri piece of seared foie gras at Uchi. (For the record: I've
always been an Uchi guy based on ambiance, sushi offerings, service and
location.)

4 Barley Swine

2024 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-394-8150, BarleySwine.com

Bryce Gilmore has been one of the Austin chefs leading the charge in the recent
farm-to-table movement. It's an ethos the Austin-raised chef learned in part
while working at Wink. The practice has guided his creative, seasonal and
oft-changing menu at the relaxed restaurant he opened in 2010.

Barley Swine originally offered diners the choice of about a dozen items on any
given night. Last fall, the small restaurant - which seats a few dozen -
switched to a tasting menu. They also removed a few seats and amped up
reservations, two diner-friendly moves. The menu change took away choice from
the diners, but the experience of dining at Barley Swine has not been
compromised. In some ways, the fixed-course tasting menu, which features about
13 items, makes for a more exciting experience.

You can look at the minimalist roster of dishes and guess the ways in which the
kitchen will deliver. There'd be no easy way to describe the dishes with simple
ingredients, so you're in for a surprise when quail egg and steelhead roe turns
out to be a sublime tea-marinated egg topped with smoked roe that slowly
develops, its tannic and oceanic flavors deepening and expanding after you've
consumed the wobbly dish delivered on a spoon.

A meal at Barley Swine will likely introduce you to ideas you couldn't have
imagined, such as compressed watermelon topped with squid jerky, or a savory
crepe made with iron-packed duck blood and filled with seared duck breast. But
dinner at Barley Swine is not about showy trickery, it's about layering flavors
(a green gazpacho with salty roe, astringent seaweed, tart Kefir and pickled
mushrooms) and letting ingredients simply shine (the fresh mozzarella, blood-red
tomatoes and clean olive oil in a startling caprese).

The proceedings are guided by a gregarious staff that shows comprehensive
knowledge of each dish and the complementary skills that allow them to make
excellent suggestions from Barley Swine's impressive wine and beer list (from a
Spanish Rioja to a Flemish Red Ale from San Antonio).

5 Congress

200 Congress Ave. 512-827-2760, CongressAustin.com/Congress

Congress ascended to the height of Austin's fine-dining category when it opened
in 2010 - and it has received little company in the years since. Part of that
may be due to Austin's laid-back nature and suspicion of anything that seems too
elegant. Part of it is because the restaurant set such a high bar.

Despite its beautiful beige and cream interiors, mannered service and location
at the base of the Austonian, Congress does not make for an airless dining
experience. It's Austin's take on fine dining. The food and service are pristine
and precise, but you can still get loose and relax to a soundtrack that mixes
the rough-hewn weariness of Lou Reed and the swagger of Motown. Had you worn a
tie, you could feel free to remove it.

Congress intimidated some with its initial fixed-price menus, but this year chef
David Bull's restaurant added a la carte options, a move that should lower the
perceived barrier of entry for some. You can still order a five-course tasting
menu, but the new format allows the chance to dig deep into one category,
mix-and-match, or simply order an entrée.

If you want small plates only, go with the smoked fat of grilled cubes of beef
lardo skewered with red grapes, crisp discs of radish and bright mint; a
sumptuous brown butter poached lobster topped with surprisingly earthy steel
colored baubles of paddlefish caviar; or flash-seared Hamachi that blends toasty
sesame notes with laced sweetness from coconut dashi.

Bull makes some of the best pasta in the city, and this summer he featured an
enticing pasta menu that included delicate veal breast ravioli with basil puree
and a decadent uni tagliatelle with Calabrese peppers. It was the kind of tease
that continues to make me hope he opens an Italian restaurant.

Those looking for a more straight-forward, classic experience might choose a
ribeye with the earthiness and roasted tannics of trumpet mushrooms and
espresso, or a rack of lamb with almond puree that the sommelier wisely paired
with the cherry and raspberry notes of Arpepe's medium-bodied 2006 Valtelina
Superiore from Congress' extensive wine list.

6 Foreign & Domestic

306 E. 53rd St. 512-459-1010, FNDAustin.com

If every part of town had a neighborhood restaurant as good as North Loop's
Foreign & Domestic, it might help mitigate Austin's traffic problem.

The window-wrapped restaurant looks like an upscale New Jersey diner, with an
L-shaped row of counter seats that allows for a great view of the chefs working
feverishly in close proximity of each other.

Chef Ned Elliott brings passion and attitude to a seasonal and soulful menu that
can flex its muscle (witness a dish of roasted quail and duck tongue stew with
almond pesto) as well as it nimbly balances flavors.

The restaurant doesn't go out of its way to bang the farm-to-table drum, but it
does an admirable job of implementing seasonal and local ingredients to execute
surprising dishes - like a chanterelle mushroom cannelloni with Swiss chard in a
savory whey broth, and a sweet corn and potato soup with pickled shrimp.

Foreign & Domestic defies simple classification, but at its heart, it's a
restaurant designed to deliver comforting and thoughtful modern American food,
whether it be the simplicity of prosciutto, peaches, basil and goat cheese, or
the complexity of braised goat with pickled cherries, corn pudding and smoked
eggplant.

7 Bufalina

1519 E Cesar Chavez St. 512-524-2523, bufalinapizza.com

Steven Dilley didn't do much to the stripped down space on East Cesar Chavez
when he opened Bufalina last summer. Some walnut tables, a handsome bar. The
main thing he brought in: a wood-burning oven from Italy that looks like an
igloo.

The restaurant's centerpiece turns out the best Neapolitan pizzas in the city.
Bubbled around the edges with a soft, pliant center, the Margherita oozes creamy
mozzarella into a bright tomato sauce draped with leaves of brilliant basil. My
favorite pie at Bufalina is the Fresca, a tumble of citrus-spritzed arugula
piled on prosciutto picante and pools of shape-shifting mozzarella.

Pizza is the main thing here, but not the only thing. Simple, fresh salads and
expertly curated meat and cheese plates make up most of the offerings to start a
meal, and wine-lover Dilley gives great attention to a list - about 20 glasses
and 70 bottles - that is astonishing in its breadth and quality given the small
size of the pizzeria.

Bufalina is open only for dinner five nights a week. Go on a Sunday night and
you'll likely bump into at least one service-industry professional - always the
sign of a good restaurant.

For a guy who worked with algorithmic equities in New York in a previous life,
Dilley was certainly a fast study in figuring out the equation for an excellent
restaurant.

8 Sway

1417 S. First St. 512-326-1999, SwayAustin.com

Exotic and alluring, both in design and menu, Sway likely introduced many
Austinites to the concept of Australian Thai - a sweet and fresh spin on classic
Thai that gained attention when Aussie chef David Thompson's Nahm in London
became the first Thai restaurant to earn a coveted Michelin star.

Dishes at Sway find a harmony of sweet, sour, salty, spicy and umami in dishes
like Jungle curry, with its wagyu beef, red chilies, eggplant, peppercorn and
coconut cream. Shrimp are the best way to start meals at Sway, whether it's the
salt-and-pepper variety, dotted with fermented black bean paste, or the prawn
miange, essentially a Thai take on a shrimp taco, with a betel leaf wrapping
lime juice-splashed toasted coconut, cashew and Fresno chilies.

The fried rice section of the menu stars a beef fried rice with a tamarind
glaze, crunchy asparagus and mild heat. Blue crab fried rice is stuffed with
generous portions of downy lump crab. During a recent bout of allergies, I found
my way to the tom kha gai soup - a sweet coconut broth filled with tender
chicken, firm mushrooms, baby corn and snow peas, and fuming with the floral
scent of lemongrass.

The volume at the popular restaurant can make group dining difficult, so I
advise sitting on the serene patio if the weather is agreeable. And Sway
recently started online ordering for takeout, which, thanks to dedicated parking
spaces and bar pickup, makes the process easy and a great way to get some of
Austin's best food with marginal hassle.

9 LaV

1501 E. Seventh St. 512-391-1888, lavaustin.com

Aspen. Houston. Those names will give some Austinites pause. But there's nothing
to fear. Yes, LaV is more elegantly appointed than most Austin restaurants - it
more closely resembles a West Austin mansion than any restaurant in town - and
its owner comes from the Bayou City. And, yes, he met his partners while they
were working at the tony Little Nell in Aspen. But LaV is a welcome addition to
the Austin restaurant scene.

Chef Alison Jenkins cooks with soul and a point of view, delivering unfussy
Provencal dishes like a whole roasted sea bass enlivened with charred lemon and
tender lamb T-bones, their gaminess matched by the soil flavors of olive
tapenade. The lush chicken liver pate, boozy with port, Madeira and bourbon, is
one of the city's best appetizers, as is lamb tartare spiced with curried yogurt
and cooled with a minty breeze.

Owner Ralph Eads aspires for LaV to have one of the country's best wine lists,
and it is certainly a marvel. Even though its prices climb to absurd heights, it
remains accessible for those looking to spend less than $100 a bottle, thanks in
part to the guidance of wine director Vilma Mazaite and her educated staff.

Pastry chef Janina O'Leary can end a meal with an array of options, at times
playful (donut holes), funky (blue cheese ice cream with port reduction) and
bright (silky lemon budino).

10 Wink

1014 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-482-8868, WinkRestaurant.com

When I told a friend recently I was headed to Wink for dinner, he asked, "Is
that place still open?"

Wink may not have the sheen of the hip new thing, but they were doing the local
and seasonal thing before the word "foodie" became a ubiquitous - and
unfortunate - moniker. The restaurant that Mark Paul and Stewart Scruggs opened
in 2001 has served as culinary training ground for a host of Austin chefs. That
fact, combined with excellent service and consistent execution, makes Wink a
vital piece of the Austin dining landscape.

There are few better ways to get your vegetables than the artfully plated and
well-balanced dishes at Wink. Big proteins like succulent duck breast come with
the fibrous crunch of bok choy and powerful baby eggplant in a spiced wine
gastrique. Earthiness of mushrooms and bittersweet grilled eggplant accompany
perfect lamb chops crackling with a strong salt-and-pepper sear in a spicy and
smoky tomato arrabbiata.

Wink always has a foie gras preparation on the menu; it arrived at a recent meal
seared and plated with the earth and iron of maitake mushrooms and mustard
greens. And Wink does light and delicate as well as they do decadent, as
evidenced by a spring dish of flamed Hamachi sashimi with pickled ramps and
sweet miso.

So, yes, Wink's open. It's thriving. And it has a handful of employees who have
been at the restaurant longer than many of the restaurants on this list have
been open.

Bonus points for their adjacent wine bar, my favorite in town.

11 Justine's

4710 E. Fifth St. 512-385-2900, Justines1937.com

Pierre Pelegrin and his wife, Justine Gilcrease, impressed Austines with their
vision and audacity when they opened Justine's in summer 2009. The French bistro
was located farther east than any hotspot at the time. It immediately attracted
crowds, and served as a precursor to the eastern expansion of Austin nightlife.

While other bars and restaurants have opened in East Austin, Justine's remains
on the edge of the action, a scene unto itself. It makes a visit to the sexy
restaurant feel like dipping into a speakeasy or a private garden party. Crowds
arrive early and stay late into the night, savoring cocktails like perfect
Manhattans or espresso martinis, and classic bistro fare like steak tartare and
grilled scallops.

The inside of the 1937 bungalow is all slinky blacks, well-worn wood, and
mottled red walls, and the place hums with the feel of a Left Bank house party
as a record player spins tunes from the likes of Jimmy Smith and Gilberto Gil.

The regular menu includes a steak frites that arrives with an impressive crust,
ruby center and a funky sidecar of Roquefort sauce for dipping your meat - or
the crunchy thin-cut fries. On the light side, lump crab meat showers curling
ribbons of crunchy cucumbers dressed in a puckering lemon-ginger dressing. The
specials menu changes daily and features items like a tumult of fall greens,
carrots and boiled egg tossed in a sensuous brown butter vinaigrette. Justine's
is so charming it can even make a salad swing.

12 Parkside

301 E. Sixth St. 512-474-9898,

Parkside-Austin.com

The jewel of chef-restaurateur Shawn Cirkiel's demi-empire was ahead of its time
when it opened on Dirty Sixth in 2008. The rest of the street has yet to catch
up with the sophistication, and Parkside remains a safe harbor in the sloppy
storm.

When he opened the restaurant, Cirkiel said he was cooking for chefs and bar
people. Well, they have good taste. And the varied menu means you can eat there
a few times in a week and never feel like you're dining at the same restaurant.
It plays the role of coastal seafood restaurant (raw fluke with lemon and
almonds), Texas tavern (lamb ratatouille with smoked eggplant and shaved radish)
and seasonal bistro (roasted and pickled beet salad with shaved fennel, mango,
and ricotta salata).

Half-priced oysters and bubbles on Wednesday nights remain one of my favorite
deals in town, and the bar staff is one of downtown's best. Get to know them
while you enjoy a juicy half-priced happy hour burger - a steal at $7.

13 Franklin Barbecue

900 E. 11th St. 512-653-1187, FranklinBarbecue.com

The best barbecue I've had from a sit-down restaurant in Texas. That's why the
lines are so long. That and a blend of cultishness and curiosity. Aaron Franklin
smokes brisket with a black caramelized bark that covers meat that falls apart
like red velvet cake.

Franklin's brisket doesn't need sauce, but he created the perfect enhancement: a
tomato-based blend braced by the dark roast of espresso. And there's a
vinegar-based sauce for the tangy pulled pork that delivers a nice balance of
smoke and fat.

By all accounts, the affable Franklin has not let the national media attention
and praise go to his head, and remains concerned about making sure that those
who pay with their time are rewarded with exceptional meat and a great
experience. The man who got his start in a trailer five years ago near the I-35
feeder road deserves much of the credit for revitalizing the barbecue scene in
Austin.

14 Odd Duck

1201 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-433-6521, oddduckaustin.com

Look carefully as you make your way to the bathroom at Odd Duck and you'll see a
column with hand-drawn lines indicating the heights of staff members. It's the
kind of personalized nostalgia my grandparents created for me as a kid. It gives
the place a sense of home, as does the mish-mash collection of vintage cutlery
and service wear used at Bryce Gilmore's farm-to-table restaurant that sprouted
from his trailer that once occupied the neighboring lot.

The rustic food is like that which would come from your grandmother's kitchen,
if she, like chef Sam Hellman-Mass, spent several years honing her technique
under Gilmore at Barley Swine. The black-olive pappardelle with braised goat was
the best pasta dish I had in Austin this year. Fried quail gets down-home
accompaniments of buttermilk biscuits and pinto beans in an elevated cowboy
dish, and the kitchen shows its inventive side adding a touch of sweetness in
the form of coconut milk to scrambled eggs that serve as a fluffy bed for fried
softshell crab.

Whether it's bar food (homemade pretzels stuffed with ham and cheese) or a
salty, sweet and acidic garden fresh salad of bursting tomatoes, goat feta,
peaches and red onions, Odd Duck finds ways to comfort with a wide array of
flavors and preparations that feel familiar yet new.

15 Jeffrey's

1204 W. Lynn St. 512-477-5584, JeffreysOfAustin.com

The McGuire-Moorman Hospitality Group knows how to create an aesthetic and a
vibe. The one at the revamped Jeffreys' feels like a private Manhattan club with
valet drivers straight from a Wes Anderson movie. Whether that's your cup of rye
is a question only you can answer. It's certainly not the place to go for weekly
dinner - though their all-day Sunday and Monday happy hours at the bar are a
heck of a deal. I had my best steak of the year - one that included a visit to
Wolfgang Puck's Cut in Las Vegas - on a recent visit to Jeffrey's.

The marbled Strube Ranch ribeye hides its sumptuous red blush behind the crunch
of a well-seasoned crust. The steak tartare with crispy shallots and capers and
massive lump crabcake refreshed by cucumber and jalapeno are two of the best
appetizers in town.

16 Second Bar + Kitchen

200 Congress Ave. 512-827-2750, congressaustin.com

Chef David Bull and his partners have pulled off an impressive feat: creating
three separate dining and drinking spaces in one building. It's a model that any
restaurateur would love to emulate. Second is one of downtown Austin's most
visible restaurants - and that's a good thing. It represents the city well to
visitors and gives locals a great dining option with a patio encircled by the
city's Great Streets program.

The kitchen is helmed by Jason Stude, though Bull's Italian heritage shows in
veal meatballs, (I add them to the cheese pizza), pan-roasted clams, and
mushroom carbonara. But the menu doesn't hew to one type of cuisine. You can
find Asian flavors in a seared salmon dish served with coconut rice and nam pla
or soba noodles humming with sesame's toasty glow. The pizzas are not just lip
service to the indecisive or timid. The funky and sweet black and bleu - with
black truffle, bleu cheese, dates and pork belly - is one of my favorites in
town. Second also serves one of my favorite salads: a pile of bitter arugula
served with tawny roasted chicken, earthy beets, sweet cranberry vinaigrette,
and generous hunks of camembert cheese.

17 Blackbird & Henry

3016 Guadalupe St. 512-394-5264, blackbirdandhenry.com

Chef Mark Schmidt grew up in Dallas and spent most his summers as an adolescent
living in England. That duality informs the culinary point of view of the former
owner of Café 909 in Marble Falls. His campus-area restaurant features Texas
cuisine like fried quail with creamy white corn grits, and the British influence
- and India's effect on that country - can be tasted across the menu, from
cocktails (a Calcuta Ritta with a curry-salted rim) to entrees (a mild curried
prawn kedgeree with fried lentils and fluffy couscous) and dessert (a strawberry
and cream Eton Mess).

For his fish and chips, Schmidt forgoes overly breaded and greasy fish for tart
smelt, which he tosses in rice flour and corn starch and fries to a clean
finish. In addition to his bicontinental background, Schmidt's time in
Connecticut and New Mexico is evident in items like East Coast oysters and a
salmon ceviche flecked with roasted green peppers.

After a few years away from Central Texas, Schmidt's reemergence in Austin has
been a welcome sight.

18 Café Josie

1200 W. Sixth St. 512-322-9226, CafeJosie.com

From the street it may not appear that Café Josie has changed much since Charles
Mayes opened the tucked-away West Sixth Street restaurant in 1997. And, as you
ascend to the building, you can still catch the waft of mesquite smoke in the
air. But inside chef Brandon Fuller and longtime Café Josie general manager Cody
Taylor have transformed what was once a tropical retreat into a seasonal
celebration. (The two took ownership of Café Josie in 2012.)

Fuller's adaptation to the seasons are evident in a winter dish of beer-battered
and lightly fried acorn squash zipped with kimcihi aioli, and a velvety pumpkin
soup with toasted pumpkin seeds, and in the late summer with grilled salmon and
green beans.

You can draw parallels between the Josie menu and some of Fuller's previous
stops - seared duck breast (Wink), tuna sashimi with sudachi and Thai chilies
(Uchi), balsamic-glazed goat ribs (Parkside) - but the underrated bistro is a
unique creation all his own.

Longtime fans of the old Josie can take comfort in the fact that they can still
order the trademark pepita-coated redfish with mango-habanero butter and rice
and beans at lunch.

19 Fabi & Rosi

509 Hearn St. 512-236-0642, FabiandRosi.com

As a restaurant critic, I get daily requests for recommendations. This bungalow
off Lake Austin Boulevard is often the answer when I'm asked something like, "We
want to have a nice dinner (either a date or with friends) at a place with
really good food (nothing too crazy), and we want to be able to hear ourselves
talk. We're willing to spend some money but don't want to break the bank. Where
should we go?" I've answered that question with Fabi & Rosi at least a dozen
times, and people have always thanked me later. That's because whether they're
getting plump escargot dripping with herbed garlic butter, rosy sirloin with
crunchy truffle fries, a thoughtful and diverse charcuterie board, or one of
German chef Wolfgang Murber's homeland classics like bratwurst in a dark beer
sauce with sauerkraut, they can't really go wrong with the understated elegance
of Fabi & Rosi.

20 Perla's Seafood and Oyster Bar

1400 S. Congress Ave. 512-291-7300, perlasaustin.com

Many people probably don't remember that this space used to house Mars, a
Mediterranean restaurant relocated from Judges' Hill that didn't have the
staying power to make it on a still-developing South Congress Avenue. With SoCo
so developed now, it's hard to think that a place wouldn't last here, as Perla's
has become the culinary centerpiece of South Congress. Credit the
McGuire-Moorman Hospitality Group's vision in creating a beachside retreat in
the middle of land-locked Texas. You can't sit on the deck and stare at the
ocean, but the people watching is pretty great.

Slurping oysters (the selection ranges from British Columbia to Nova Scotia)
with a bottle of bubbles is the perfect way to start a meal that will follow
with a bloody Niman Ranch ribeye electrified with salsa verde. If you want to
stay with seafood, the bronzed pan-seared halibut falls apart into ivory shards
bathed in drawn butter. If you don't have to worry about getting into a
swimsuit, order the lobster-and-cheddar grits. And if you aren't driving, get a
second Manhattan. Perla's makes great cocktails.

21 La Traviata

14 Congress Ave. 512-479-8131, LaTraviata.net

Congress Avenue is slowly catching up to the big city urbanity of this simple
but elegant little restaurant that feels like it was plucked from a much larger
city. Whenever people ask me where to go for Italian, my first answer is La
Traviata. The explanation could start and stop with the three-meat Bolognese or
the best carbonara in town: pancetta and cheese clinging to the egg washed twirl
of pasta. But I could go on and discuss the homemade ravioli specials or the
clean and simple perfection of an aglio e olio spaghetti with shrimp that will
leave fumes of toasted garlic lingering with you throughout the day. Chef Marion
Gillcrist's restaurant embodies the idea that sometimes less is more, and that
when you have the right ingredients, and the right balance of those ingredients,
you don't need too many.

22 El Naranjo

85 Rainey St. 512-474-2776, ElNaranjo-Restaurant.com

I traveled to Mexico this summer and met celebrated chef Ricardo Muñoz Zurita,
who told me that Iliana de la Vega of El Naranjo is the best Mexican-born chef
cooking in the United States. High praise. At her avocado green bungalow on
bustling Rainey Street, de la Vega introduces diners to indigenous Mexican
ingredients like cactus paddles and chayote, a gourd she enlivens with a sweet
vinegar dressing and sprinkles with Mexican oregano, and serves familiar dishes
like citrusy cochinita pibil with pickled onions.

The former Oaxacan chef keeps a couple of moles on the menu at all times, like
the nutty and complex mole poblano, and rotates a third mole. The weekly special
gives diners a chance to taste the myriad examples of the Mexican mother sauce.
I imagine Muñoz Zurita, a culinary anthropologist and author, would
enthusiastically approve of the way de la Vega imparts Mexico's cultural and
culinary heritage to guests through her cooking.

23 La Condesa

400 W. Second St. 512-499-0300, LaCondesaAustin.com

Named after the hip and leafy neighborhood in Mexico City, this restaurant
shines with a relaxed cosmopolitan vibe. The massive mural is a showpiece, as
seen through the floor-to-ceiling windows that embrace a dining room that spills
into one of the best sidewalk café style settings in town. Nods to Mexico City
reverberate throughout the restaurant's design and menu, as with the fresh tuna
tostadas that put a spin on the classic dish from the Mexican capital's
Contramar and the El Califa tacos (steak encased in cheese), named after a
taqueria in Mexico City's Condesa neighborhood. The menu has changed a bit under
the guidance of chef Rick Lopez, with additions such as the acidic tingle of a
red-wine braised octopus with chipotle romesco. One thing that hasn't changed:
the classic margarita. The best in town.

24 TamDeli

8222 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-834-6458, Facebook.com/TamDeliAndCafe

Sisters Tam Bui and Tran Ngoc are great ambassadors for Vietnamese culture and
cuisine. I doubt they mind my repetitive banh mi orders of garlic-packed fried
shrimp, chargrilled pork, or lemongrass beef served with pickled carrots,
cucumber, jalapeño, cilantro and homemade mayonnaise on flaky and flossy
baguettes. But they get more excited when I show a greater sense of adventure
and hopscotch through their massive menu, choosing a restorative bowl of pho
with meatballs or flank steak; a vermicelli bowl packed with the oceanic flavors
of crab, shrimp paste and escargot; or the sour, salty and spicy Bun Bo Hue Dac
Biet beef soup. Make sure you request a cream puff be held for you before you
start your meal. You don't want to go home empty-handed.

25 Swift's Attic

315 Congress Ave. 512-482-8200, SwiftsAttic.com

This gastroclub perched above the Elephant Room sometimes challenges me with its
noise and décor. It's like meeting a person at a dinner party who talks and
dresses loudly and spends too much time looking in the mirror or over your
shoulder while he talks to you. But then you listen to what he has to say and
realize he's a person of depth and character. Maybe the cover doesn't always
match the contents.

The kitchen at Swift's Attic, helmed by Mat Clouser, defies classification. You
may get a raw fish dish with Asian influences that reference the chef's time at
Kenichi, but you're just as likely to find warm Texas-inspired dishes like
Lockhart quail with pungent blue-cheese grits, candied almonds and cherry
gastrique on a dish that looks like a Christmas table setting. I was surprised
on a recent visit to taste Mexican flavors in a masa "gnocchi" dish served in an
almond cream sauce and topped with dark chips made from huitlacoche. Just when
I've got them all figured out, Swift's makes me reconsider what I think I know.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
