
                               3 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 31, 1998

Antarctic drilling turns up shellfish; The fossils and algae tell of

BYLINE: RAY LILLEY

SECTION: News; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 468 words


WELLINGTON, New Zealand -- More than two dozen kinds of shellfish fossils and 15
previously unknown species of algae have been found under the seabed off
Antarctica, a scientist said Friday.

The discovery of the shells indicates the Ross Sea off Antarctica was 6 to 7
degrees warmer 1.2 million to 1.8 million years ago, said geology professor
Peter Barrett.

Barrett, from Victoria University in Wellington, is the coordinator of a
six-nation project drilling the Antarctic coastal seabed off Cape Roberts to
study climatic change.

The scientists believe the rock cores from 1,500 feet below the sea bed could
unlock the history of the Antarctic's climate and offer clues to global warming.

They also believe that studying earlier Antarctic warm spells may help them
predict what global warming may do to the world's ice and sea levels.

It's been a controversy over whether periods in the Pleistocene and Pliocene
were warmer than the present,'' said Bill Budd of the Antarctic Cooperative
Research Center at the University of Tasmania. Budd studies glacial and coastal
ice changes for clues to more recent climate changes.

The Pleistocene and Pliocene epochs, taken together, ran from about 5.3 million
years ago to about 10,000 years ago.

Barrett said the shells and algal --seaweed beds were both major finds.

In a glacial environment, shells hardly ever form, and there's an enormous
variety, something like 32 different types of mollusks alone'' in the 1-yard-
thick bed, he said.

He said the layer also contained barnacles, corals and other shellfish life
forms and indicated a super-warm period'' between ice ages and indicates a
rather different environment in the Ross Sea than we are used to thinking of.''

We also found entirely new micro-flora (algal seaweed) existed in the area 15 to
22 million years ago and have identified 15 new species, not just for the
Antarctic, but to the globe,'' he said.

Wellington paleontologist Roger Cooper said the find has exciting implications''
for the study of Antarctic climate and the controversial international debate''
of whether Antarctica has been covered in an ice sheet throughout history.

This new evidence should help resolve the debate and take us further forward in
our understanding of Antarctic climate, and therefore its effects on global
climate,'' said Cooper, a research program leader at the Institute of Geological
and Nuclear Sciences, who was not part of the ice-coring project.

He said that if the shells were those of temperate and warm-water mollusks, it
would favor the theory that the Antarctic ice sheet disappeared during a past
period of global warming.

New Zealand is leading the consortium of 42 scientists from the United States,
Italy, Britain, Germany, Australia and New Zealand.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                               5 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 12, 1998

Experts pry into oyster mystery ; Bacteria's likely accomplice is

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 715 words


State and federal health authorities say they may never be certain why bacteria
normal to the Gulf of Mexico have sickened more than 300 people in Texas,
Florida, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Georgia who ate raw oysters from Galveston Bay.

The reason for the outbreak, which is unprecedented in Texas history, could be
as simple as warmer-than-normal coastal waters causing the Vibrio
parahaemolyticus bacterium to multiply. But what is causing the warmer water?
Answers range from the heat wave Texans are enduring this year to the lingering
effects of El Nio, or even an early manifestation of global warming.

"We have discussed global warming and El Nio," said David Masarang, chief of the
bureau of laboratories at the Texas Department of Health, who is investigating
the outbreak. "But we have no particular way of tying those in at the moment,
except through the general warming in the bay."

Bay oyster harvesters voluntarily ceased production in June after learning of
the illnesses and have recalled raw oysters in the shell until health
authorities say the threat is over. There is no risk associated with oysters
that are fried or baked; cooking kills the bacteria.

It's apparently only the increased level of bacteria on raw oysters that has
caused the illnesses.

"As the water warms up, the bacteria just begin to divide at a faster rate,"
said Shelly Payne, a University of Texas microbiologist who specializes in
bacteria. "The risk is related to the number you ingest."

The global-warming angle intrigues Masarang and other investigators because it
fits a long-standing prediction that increases in infectious diseases could be
one result of the predicted warming of average surface temperatures, caused by
heat trapped in the atmosphere by increased carbon dioxide from burning coal,
oil and natural gas.

"Climate change is likely to have wide-ranging and mostly adverse impacts on
human health," the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded in 1995.
The panel of technical experts advises nations that have ratified the 1992
treaty on climate change, which was revised last December in Kyoto, Japan.

Seawater only a few degrees warmer than normal could, for example, spur the
growth of algae eaten by tiny marine animals associated with the bacteria that
cause cholera, which can kill without speedy treatment.

The Center for Health and Global Environment at the Harvard School of Public
Health in Boston has documented recent outbreaks of cholera in South America and
Africa related to consumption of shellfish during periods of warm water
associated with El Nio. Some scientists believe that global warming is causing
El Nio events to occur more frequently.

Vibrio cholera has not been implicated in the Galveston Bay outbreak, but it is
a member of the same bacterial genus, Vibrio, as Vibrio parahaemolyticus, the
bacterium documented in at least 39 of the 306 cases recorded so far in the
latest outbreak. It is suspected in the rest.

Larger-than-normal blooms of algae have occurred in recent years on the Texas
Coast, "but we haven't had this oyster problem before," Masarang said.

The Galveston Bay outbreak may be unusual in Texas waters, but it appears
similar to North America's previous largest outbreak, during July and August
1997, in the Pacific Northwest, said Fred Angulo, an epidemiologist with the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.

That outbreak, which made 209 people ill and killed one, also was associated
with Vibrio parahaemolyticus in raw oysters harvested from California to British
Columbia. The outbreak was blamed on coastal water temperatures from 2 to 9
degrees above normal, apparently caused by El Nio.

"To have this bacterium cause illnesses two years in a row is unusual," Angulo
said, although it does so routinely in Japan where raw seafood is more popular.

While health investigators work the mystery, they are certain of one thing. If
any good comes from the Texas outbreak, which has crippled an oyster industry
worth at least $8 million, it will be in reinforcing what health authorities
have long maintained: that no one should eat raw oysters from anywhere.

"I love raw oysters," said Payne. "But I don't eat them anymore, because there's
just such a high risk."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              15 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 1, 1998

La Nia v. El Nio: Winter is the prize

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 677 words


Thanks to September's heavy rains, grass is greener these days in the Austin
area than it's been since April. But it could turn brown again and stay that way
until late spring, if dueling areas of cold and warm water in the eastern
equatorial Pacific Ocean reach a cold conclusion.

The winner will influence the global climate for months, affecting rainfall,
temperature and wind patterns across Texas and everywhere else.

The National Weather Service expects a strengthening La Nia effect (the cold
water) to be victorious, extending into the winter and spring, which for the
Southwest generally means mild and dry weather. In other words, the region
should experience the opposite of the cool and wet El Nio (the warm water)
conditions that Texas saw last winter and early spring.

Central Texas farmers lost millions of dollars this year when last winter's El
Nio rains perversely stopped in April and unusually dry conditions settled in
for the late spring and summer. Farmers could see the same troubles happen all
over again if La Nia prevails in the Pacific and stifles the normal rains of
winter and spring. Last summer's potential for wildfires, quashed by this
month's heavy rains, also might return.

But for months now, the areas of cold and warm water in the equatorial Pacific
that represent a strengthening La Nia and a waning El Nio have been alternating,
keeping scientists guessing as to which one will be dominant in the long run.

El Nio, Spanish for the Christ child, got its name centuries ago when Peruvian
fishermen noticed that the recurring cycles of warm water that disrupted fishing
were most apparent around Christmastime. Scientists in this century gave the
name La Nia to the opposite effect of colder-than-normal water there.

Things seemed much clearer for climate prediction in June when University of
Texas space researchers monitoring satellite sensor data on the Pacific saw the
sea level of the eastern Pacific dropping below normal, a situation that roughly
correlates with colder water temperatures. This observation allowed them to
predict a coming La Nia period, although one of uncertain duration.

"You can be pretty sure there's going to be some La Nia," Don Chambers, an
aerospace engineer at UT's Center for Space Research, said in June. Chambers
monitors sea level data from an American-French radar satellite called
TOPEX/Poseidon, which the weather service uses for long-range climate
predictions.

But by late August, after the weather service had confirmed UT researchers' June
observations and predicted a coming La Nia winter and spring, the phenomena
shifted.

Chambers then said the satellite was recording a return to near normal sea level
in the eastern Pacific, while an area of cold water in the central ocean that
had been moving eastward seemed to be holding stationary.

In recent weeks, however, the cold water has begun moving eastward again,
meaning La Nia is regaining her supremacy.

"However, we can't estimate how large (the cold effect) will be or how long it
will last," Chambers said last week. "And the (climate) computer models all
disagree on the size and duration as well."

The situation has perplexed some climate researchers, who once thought their
discovery of the El Nio and La Nia phenomena had given them a key to global
forecasting.

Richard Peterson, a meteorology researcher at Texas Tech University in Lubbock,
said even if the La Nia conditions continue to prevail, there's no guarantee the
Southwest will get a dry winter and spring.

A La Nia winter followed the major El Nio winter of 1982-83, and that La Nia
period, in 1983-84, was supposed to make Texas mild and dry. Instead, West Texas
had a record cold and snowy winter.

"Like a lot of these things," Peterson said, "there's average conditions, but
each one has many local variations and idiosyncracies. A single event, like
Tropical Storm Charlie settling over Del Rio (in August), completely alters what
looked like a horrible drought. We'll just have to wait and see what happens."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NASAA satellite image shows the dueling warm (red) and cold (blue)
areas in the Pacific Ocean.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              22 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                December 8, 1998

Satellite may give global warming clues

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 638 words


Satellites may be able to detect the first stages of global warming in the tiny
changes in sea level that a 21st-century shift to a warmer world is expected to
bring, according to a team of Texas researchers.

The conclusion, based on the first successful satellite monitoring of El Nio's
effect on the oceans, was announced Monday by University of Texas and Texas A&M
University engineers and scientists at the annual meeting of the International
Geophysics Union in San Francisco.

Their analysis of data from TOPEX/Poseidon, an American-French radar satellite
monitoring the oceans, found that the tropical Pacific weathermaker dubbed El
Nio apparently began raising the sea level worldwide in March 1997. The
satellite's measurements showed that sea level peaked at an average of
eight-tenths of an inch higher than normal in November 1997 and did not return
to normal until July .

Detecting and "understanding these short-term variations is important for
understanding and detecting long-term variations caused by climate changes,"
said R. Steven Nerem, a UT assistant professor of aerospace engineering who led
the research team.

A satellite forecast of global warming could be helpful in achieving a political
consensus among developed countries to reduce their emissions from burning coal,
oil and gas, which many scientists fear will alter the world's climate by the
middle of the 21st century.

Although the Clinton administration signed a treaty Nov. 12 agreeing to
ambitious reductions of emissions, the U.S. Senate, which must ratify the treaty
before it can take effect, continues to debate whether concern about global
warming is valid.

Nerem and co-authors Don Chambers, a research engineer at UT's Center for Space
Research, and Ben Geise , an assistant professor of oceanography at Texas A&M,
found El Nio's influence on sea level in ocean maps made by TOPEX/Poseidon's
radar-altimeter instruments of the barely perceptible hills and valleys of the
sea surface.

The sea level rise was not confined to the tropical Pacific -- where El Nio
originates in a gradual warming of the water off the coast of Peru -- but also
was observed in other parts of the world's oceans, such as the Indian Ocean and
the Southern Pacific.

The satellite's measurements held up when the researchers checked them against
seashore measurements of tides and on a computer model that Giese is developing
to measure climate change.

The researchers attributed the rise to a little-understood ability of the oceans
to retain more heat during an El Nio event than at other times. Global warming
is expected to cause a similar effect.

"There's some sort of an exchange of heat between the oceans and the
atmosphere," Nerem said. "We need to study the phenomenon more."

But because El Nio is a recurring feature of Earth's weather, part of what
meteorologists call the El Nio Southern Oscillation, sea-level changes caused by
global warming may be difficult to sort out.

Current estimates of global warming's effect on the oceans -- even without its
feared melting of some ice at the poles -- call for an average sea level rise of
only about 1.8 millimeters a year, about 10 percent of the observed El Nio
effect.

"We really need a decade or more of continuous measurements before we can
accurately detect any climate-induced change," said Lee-Lueng Fu, the
TOPEX/Poseidon project scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which operates the satellite.

Another problem is the expected demise of TOPEX/Poseidon, which is beginning its
seventh year in orbit, although it was only designed to last for five years.

Scientists hope it will continue operating and gathering sea-level data until
its replacement, dubbed Jason 1, is ready for launch in 2000.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UT's R. Steven Nerem led a team that found a possible way to measure
the early stages of global warming.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              25 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 31, 1998

He Can Keep A Secret; Ballard's homemade buoy, a Coke can, keeps the

BYLINE: Mike Leggett

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 988 words


LaGRANGE -- Gene Ballard holds his homemade marker bouy -- a Coke can filled
with injected foam and wrapped with monofilament -- over the gunwale and guides
his bass boat gently on line over a field of sunken brush piles.

At just the right moment, the one that will allow him to set the boat against a
heavy south wind, Ballard drops the can and begins a wide, sweeping circle back
around within fishing range. The dashboard flasher is alive with flashing lines,
most representing the radar echo off some largemouth bass.

"I've been using this old can out here for years," Ballard said. "When people
come by, lots of them think it's just an empty can floating by and they don't
bother to mark my spots. I get to fish them a lot more often that way."

Such is bass fishing life in the day of $150 GPS (global positioning satellite)
units, which allow anglers to electronically remember someone else's prime
fishing hole and come back to it with extreme accuracy. On a heavily fished
2,600-acre lake, there aren't many secrets to start with and if a little
deception will hold off the swarms for a day or two, figure that's one for the
home team.

Ballard sets up downwind of his marker and picks up a Carolina-rigged, Fry
Assassin, one of the so-called French fry generation of lures. There's not
really a head or a tail, just a four-inch, creased body.

If the lure sounds like something out of a horror movie nightmare ("I swear,
Sheriff. It didn't have no head nor tail. Just this weird, mushy body."), the
fishing doesn't suffer for it. The boat hardly has time to get nose into the
wind before a 19-inch bass slams my worm.

Ballard is quickly doing his own version of the bent-rod ballet and the bite is
officially on. In the next 90 minutes, between first light and 8 a.m., we hook,
land and release 30 largemouth bass, each a clone of the one before it, chunky
Fayette County slot fish in the 16-20 inch class. Strong, aggressive, abundant.

"That's the fish we're catching," Ballard says, as another 18-incher goes
tail-walking across the choppy lake surface. "I don't know how many you could
catch on this spot, but the best day I've had so far is 75 fish in a half-day
trip."

Some might call a claim of 75 fish in a half day polishing the brass, but those
numbers can and do happen on Fayette County. The lake, which lies between
LaGrange and Fayetteville southeast of Austin, may be the most productive bass
lake in Texas. It certainly is the champion for any lake Central Texans can
reach on a short drive.

Fayette County has a 14-24-inch slot limit, meaning all fish larger than 14
inches and smaller than 24 must be released as soon as they are caught. With an
abundant food supply made up of bream, shad and tilapia, Fayette County bass
grow fat and healthy and reside in incredible numbers.

"Things are a lot better since they raised the upper end of the slot," Ballard
said. The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department raised the slot limit's top end
from 21 to 24 inches, hoping to create more of a trophy fishery on the lake.

"But we still don't see many fish over 24," Ballard said. "I've caught three
this year. People are just taking them out when they're a little bigger."

But, until they reach that legal size, Fayette County bass represent one of the
state's best fishing opportunities. "Lots of people abandon this lake about this
time of year," Ballard said. "The fish are leaving the grass in shallow water,
and they think you can't catch them anymore because the water has gotten so
warm."

Indeed, Fayette County is a power plant cooling pond and summer temperatures can
get hot. The water already was at or above 90 degrees and getting warmer the day
Ballard and I fished. "What people forget, though, is that the temperature drops
as you go down and these fish move into deeper water and hold right above the
thermocline during the summer," he said.

"The temperature drops a degree for every foot you go down," Ballard said. "So
even if the temperature is 92 degrees on the surface, if the thermocline is at
20-21 feet, which it is on this lake, then the fish are pretty comfortable in
72-degree water."

Ballard said there are two keys to catching summer fish on Fayette County: 1)
reading bottom contour and 2) keeping the lure in the strike zone.

"In water that deep, you don't have to have extreme changes in bottom structure
to hold fish," Ballard said. "Sometimes, it's just a very subtle change, maybe a
foot or two, on a long, sloping point. It may even be a little indentation that
runs along the bottom for a ways."

Look for fish holding along those changes or even suspended over deeper water.
Again, they'll be holding right along that magical thermocline. "If they're
suspended, you might use a jigging spoon or crankbait," Ballard said. "If
they're on the bottom, a worm or Carolina-rig will work."

*

Gene Ballard guides full-time on Fayette County Reservoir. For information, call
(409) 378-2006.

(from box)

Summer fishing checklist

* Look for the thermocline, the depth at which very cold water with low oxygen
levels stratifies and sets up a comfort barrier between the water above. Bass,
and other fish, like to hold just above that line for the most comfortable
temperatures.

* Keep the lure in the strike zone, usually within 3-4 feet of the thermocline.

* Think small changes in structure. Many times, the bass's comfort zone is very
small due to temperature and oxygen levels. Very subtle changes in bottom
contour can attract and hold feeding fish.

* Move around on your fishing spot. Many times bass will hold on one side or
another of a piece of structure, sometimes in schools of different sizes of
fish. Mark the spot with a bouy and keep circling until you find the best place
with the biggest bass.

* Lures to use: Plastic worms fished Carolina or Texas-style, jigging spoons,
jig and eel for heavy brush, crankbaits.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GET ON BOARD; Bene Ballard, left, fights a largemouth bass that was
holding in about 18 feet of water on Fayette County Resservoir and then hauls it
in. Ballard, a full-time guide on the lake, says the keys to catching summer
fish at Fayette are reading bottom contour and keeping the lure in the strike
zone. // Sure looks like a Coke can. And it is. Once in the water, it's a clever
way for Ballard to disguise his fishing spots. // This Fayette County bass was
caught on a Carolina-rigged, Fry Assassin lure.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              31 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 April 11, 1998

Hurricane meeting spawns hot debate on global warming

BYLINE: MICHAEL CABBAGE

SECTION: News; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 479 words


NORFOLK, Va. -- Is our planet heating up? The debate is.

The thorny issue of global warming took center stage during Friday's closing
session of the National Hurricane Conference, as a government scientist clashed
with one of America's best-known hurricane forecasters.

At the heart of the controversy was the accuracy of computer models and whether
politics are driving climate research.

Scientists at the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, the
federal agency responsible for climate prediction, say the models consistently
show the Earth is getting hotter.

"We've succeeded in identifying a global trend," said Robert Livezey, a senior
researcher at NOAA's Climate Prediction Center. "We're very, very confident this
is the case."

Others aren't so sure.

Neil Frank, a forecaster for KHOU-TV in Houston and past director of the
National Hurricane Center, expressed his concern that gloomy predictions of a
hotter, wetter 21st century rely more on iffy computer simulations than actual
weather data.

"On numerical models that I can't put faith in for a three-day forecast, we're
being asked to simplify and run out (predictions) for two centuries," Frank
said.

Past research has indicated that if oceans grow warmer, the strength and
frequency of hurricanes could increase. Newer studies, including one by NOAA,
suggest the opposite. A warmer climate could mean more El Nino events, which
hold down hurricane activity in the Atlantic basin.

NOAA's stand on the issue mirrors the long-held position of the Clinton
administration. The White House and many American scientists say that humans
primarily are responsible for rising temperatures because of fossil- fuel
burning.

There's widespread agreement that Earth has grown hotter by more than a degree
during this century. Government researchers estimate temperatures will rise an
additional 2 degrees to 6 degrees over the next 100 years. That could mean an
increase in severe weather and, at the extreme, a rise in sea level that would
submerge many coastal areas.

Critics of global warming say those predictions are way off-base.  They
attribute any slight rise in temperatures to long-term heating and cooling
cycles Earth continually goes through.

Frank and Bill Gray, a Colorado State University professor who forecasts
hurricanes, suggested that the debate is being driven by politics, not science.
Despite his reputation as one of America's pre-eminent tropical meteorologists,
Gray's applications for research grants from NOAA's Office of Global Programs
have been rejected for eight consecutive years.

"They don't want to give money to people who have a different approach besides
climate modeling," Gray said.

NOAA administrator James Baker denied the charge.

"NOAA is a scientific agency," Baker said, "and we subscribe to whatever is the
best science."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              32 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 18, 1998

A few questions for our would-be president Al Gore

BYLINE: George Will

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 735 words


Every serving vice president since Alben Barkley in 1952 who has wanted his
party's presidential nomination has gotten it. Al Gore wants his party's, so it
is not too soon to be depressed. And inquisitive. Herewith some questions for
him.

You say that abortions should be "safe, legal and rare." Why do you care if they
are rare? In Roe v. Wade, which you adore, the Supreme Court said a fetus is,
unlike crab grass, only "potential" life. That makes it easy for you to defend
even partial-birth abortions. No one says appendectomies should be rare. Unless
a fetus has a moral standing superior to an appendix - if it does, how superior?
- why is it important for abortions to be rare?

Last year you said, "People in Grand Forks, N.D., who had to move out of their
homes because of the flooding don't think global climate change is such an
abstraction anymore." What is the scientific basis for the assertion that the
flooding was caused by "global climate change"?

In a Dec. 22, 1997, news conference about homelessness you said, "Speaking from
my own religious tradition in this Christmas season, 2,000 years ago a homeless
woman gave birth to a homeless child in a manger because the inn was full."
Homeless? Can you document for biblical scholars this astonishing news that
Joseph provided so poorly for his family?

You say, "It makes little sense for each of us to burn up all the energy
necessary to travel with several thousand pounds of metal wherever we go." Will
you say that to a United Auto Workers convention? What policies would a Gore
administration adopt to implement your conviction that automobiles make "little
sense"?

You say "race is a pervasive if often unacknowledged part of every issue,
controversy, indeed conversation in the United States of America." (emphasis
added) Really? How does that work in conversations about Jane Austen or Greg
Maddux or the possible collision of Earth with an asteroid or the (if you will
pardon the thought) delights of sport-utility vehicles?

As a general moral principle, do you think that anything goes when there is "no
controlling legal authority" forbidding it?

Referring to people "who are simply not getting enough to eat" because they
cannot "figure out how to make ends meet, how to get food on the table," you
say: "We cannot stand by and let people in this nation starve." (emphasis added)
Well. Diagnosable malnutrition (as distinct from episodes of incidental hunger)
is rare and almost always associated not "simply" with poverty but with
alcoholism, drug addiction, child abuse and other pathologies. What is your
understanding of America's starvation problem?

A Clinton-Gore administration report says that among the American households
living with "resource-constrained hunger" are 185,000 households with annual
incomes exceeding $40,000. Can you explain this?

You welcomed Ellen DeGeneres' televised lesbianism because "Americans were
forced to look at sexual orientation in a more open light." (emphasis added)
What else should Americans be "forced" to face? Should state laws acknowledge
gay marriages? Given that gays and supporters of the gay-rights agenda
(especially Hollywood) are important sources of Democratic campaign
contributions, what part of that agenda do you not support?

Addressing the 1996 Democratic Convention, you said about tobacco, "When I was a
child, my family was attacked by an invisible force that was then considered
harmless." Was smoking really considered harmless in this country in which
cigarettes had for generations been called "coffin nails"? Are tobacco farmers
immoral?

You say, "There are those at the extremes of both parties who take a dim view of
the future." Are you taking a cheery view when you say our civilization is a
"dysfunctional family" in need of "wrenching transformation" and new "central
organizing principles"?

Political scientist Larry Sabato and journalist Glenn Simpson say "modern
opposition research truly came into its own in 1988" when you, seeking the
Democratic presidential nomination, raised the Willie Horton case against
Michael Dukakis. Did Republicans do anything wrong in using that issue, too?

Would repeal of the designated-hitter rule (25 years old this year) constitute
illegal discrimination because repeal would have a disparate impact on elderly
players?

Will is a syndicated columnist based in Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Will

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              38 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 2, 1998

Greenhouse effect tested on grassland; Experiment looks at how -

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 712 words


A federal and University of Texas experiment 70 miles north of Austin could be
mistaken by a high-flying bird for the meal of a lifetime.

Descending for a closer look, the bird would see that what looked like two,
giant caterpillars on the edge of Temple were really long and narrow growing
plots covered with plastic.

The plants under the plastic -- including sideoats grama grasses, bluestem
grasses and wild daisies -- are potentially much more important than a feast for
passing birds.

The plants are players in an effort to learn whether increases in atmospheric
carbon dioxide, the main culprit of global warming, will help or harm Texas
grasslands by the end of the 21st century.

They're the grasses and herbs, part of the natural grassland, that you would see
driving through the Hill Country or east of Interstate 35,'' said Robert
Jackson, a UT assistant professor of botany and a specialist in plant ecology.

Jackson, who is running the experiment with scientists at a U.S. Department of
Agriculture research facility in Temple, said it also could be important for
federal policy makers.

The government is partly basing its strategies for dealing with climate-changing
carbon dioxide -- produced in the burning of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and
gas -- on estimates that up to 33 percent of any increase will be absorbed by
plants, which need carbon dioxide to grow.

Jackson, who teaches a UT course on global climate change, said that could be
too optimistic.

It could be that plants are a bucket that will be filled up,'' Jackson said.

Previous plant and carbon dioxide studies at the Temple facility indicated that
increased amounts of the gas could produce up to 50 percent more growth of wild
grasses and flowerlike herbs.

These studies suggest a benefit from global warming: return of grasses to the
levels that Texas' early settlers found before overgrazing diminished them.

But Jackson and other researchers doubt it. For one thing, the studies were done
in a greenhouse in special soils, with irrigation, fertilizers and fewer plants.

What we're doing outside (now) is working with real soil and a plant community
representing a large part of the Central Texas area,'' said Hyrum Johnson, an
agriculture department ecologist.

Each of the plots is 328 feet long and equipped with automated sensors to keep
track of any leakage of the carbon dioxide inside.

One plot has carbon dioxide levels ranging from 200 to 250 parts per 1 million
parts of air -- a level established for Earth's atmosphere during the last ice
age -- to the 275 to 360 parts per million from the beginning of the Industrial
Revolution to today.

The other plot has carbon dioxide levels from the 360 parts per million of the
atmosphere today to the 550 parts per million projected for the end of the 21st
century, if fossil fuel consumption continues at today's rate.

And that's conservative,'' Jackson said, because the population is increasing
and the consumption (of fossil fuels) per person is going up.''

Expectations for the experiment's results are complex. But a working hypothesis
is that the plants in carbon dioxide levels higher than today will see 10 to 20
percent more growth.

But that result could have less to do with the carbon dioxide taken in by the
plants than by the amount of water they retain.

Plants, as every schoolchild learns, take in carbon dioxide and give off oxygen.
They do it through pores on their leaves called stomates.

As the stomates open to take in carbon dioxide, they also lose some of the water
the plant has taken up from the soil.

If the plants take in more carbon dioxide, because more is available, Jackson
speculates that they may lose less water because their stomates won't open as
much.

If plants of the late 21st century needed less water, however, that could
translate not to increased growth of grasses for cattle and other animals but
transformation of grasslands into shrub terrain.

Shrubs tend to be more deeply rooted than grassesand take more advantage of
moisture deep in the soil.

With increasing carbon dioxide, the soil water lasts longer ripe conditions for
woody plants to move in,'' Johnson said.  So it might be bad for grasslands in
the long run.''

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UT botanist Robert Jackson is experimenting with Hill Country grassland
plants in Temple to see whether increased carbon dioxide levels associated with
global warming will help or hurt them.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              44 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 19, 1998

Global warming not cast as villain, yet,; Two state experts see

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 692 words


Concern that global warming could have a hand in the Texas heat wave -- blamed
for dozens of deaths statewide -- is off by at least four digits, say experts on
global warming.

"I would say it was more of a finger than a hand," said Gerald North, chairman
of the meteorology department at Texas A&M University. "It's mainly due to
conditions set up by El Nio."

Jurgen Schmandt, a global-warming policy analyst at the University of Texas LBJ
School of Public Affairs, is even more cautious.

"We have seen a more-frequent occurrence of hot summers in recent years,"
Schmandt said. "But whether it is a variation in the climate or one more sign of
global warming isn't in yet."

It isn't naysaying on their part. In the sometimes bitter scientific and
political debate over whether global warming is a threat, in deference to which
Americans must stop driving gas-guzzlers and nations reduce their burning of
coal, oil and natural gas, North and Schmandt are believers.

Schmandt edited and North contributed a chapter to "The Impact of Global Warming
on Texas," a collection of science and policy essays published in 1996 by the
University of Texas Press.

Among the book's predictions for Central Texans of an expected global rise of 4
to 6 degrees in the world's average temperatures by 2050: a shorter drive to the
beach as polar icecaps melt and the Gulf of Mexico rises as high as three feet
above normal.

But the Clinton administration sees effects today. In an announcement last week
at the White House, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the
parent agency of the National Weather Service, said that last month, on average,
was the hottest June worldwide in more than 100 years of record keeping. Each
previous month of 1998 also set a high temperature record.

"How much more proof do we need that global warming is real?" Vice President Al
Gore told The Associated Press on Tuesday. "You can quite clearly see the
long-term warming trend."

Gore's remarks were directed at the U.S. Senate, which has balked at ratifying a
treaty signed last year in Japan by the United States and other countries to
begin slowing the production of the so-called greenhouse gases fueling global
warming.

Few climatologists argue that the atmospheric amount of the primary greenhouse
gas, carbon dioxide, has increased 25 percent since 1957 and will double by the
mid-21st century. They do argue about whether the atmosphere can handle it.

The situation in the 1990s is murkier. Part of the uncertainty, as North,
Schmandt and other experts see it, is that accurate temperature record keeping
is only 103 years old.

"We don't know if what is happening in the '90s is a normal anomaly," said Jim
Spencer, a meteorologist with Austin's KXAN-TV, "Maybe this happens every 100
years. It does seem unusual, but we just don't have much data."

Spencer said 1980 still holds the record for heat in Texas, though 1993 saw the
longest string of days (65) without rain in Austin's history, and the 1996
drought was pretty hot, too.

James Norwine, a climatologist at Texas A&M in Kingsville in South Texas, agreed
that it's too soon to blame global warming, but with some reservations.

"Down here in the subtropics," Norwine said, "I've had the sense of a sort of
preview of coming attractions."

South Texas this year has had an inordinate number of hot nights, he said,
nights when the temperature hasn't fallen below 80.

"In the temperature records you average very few of those," Norwine said.
"That's the sort of thing that gets my attention."

Norwine, who also contributed a chapter to the UT Press book on global warming's
Texas impact, fears it could significantly alter South Texas life, perhaps
eliminating the agriculture bounty of the Rio Grande Valley. He asks students in
his geoscience classes to consider how different the climate in their old age
could be from that of their youth.

Students at Texas A&M in College Station, meanwhile, are getting the message
that climate could be important to their future.

"El Nio alone has about doubled our number of meteorology majors this year,"
North said.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              50 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 April 22, 1998

Earth Day '98, * We can't rest on our laurels

BYLINE: John Passacantando

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 576 words


On this 28th annual celebration of Earth Day, we should reflect on how far we as
a citizenry have come in our sensitivity to the environment.

Imagine our world without the last 30 years of environmental awareness, laws and
regulations: A world with less intelligent children from breathing the lead from
car exhaust; a world with the kind of air pollution only now seen in places like
Mexico City; a world in which the last of our old growth forests would have long
been turned into chop sticks and cardboard boxes; and a world with vegetables
richer in pesticides than vitamins.

But while we've got cleaner air, cleaner water and some ozone layer protection,
don't let any corporate mouthpieces tell you the work is done. Our gains have
been small in many cases we've only managed to make the environment less bad,
not better. Just as we have begun to slow mining, logging and nuclear
proliferation in the U.S., our companies are taking their pulp mills to Siberia,
oil derricks to Mongolia and nuclear power plants to China.

An estimated 40,000 premature deaths occur each year due to particulate soot
pollution. Asthma is the leading serious chronic illness affecting our children,
up 118 percent since 1980. Forty percent of U.S. rivers and lakes are still too
polluted for fishing or swimming. Don't forget the looming threats from global
warming, including more infectious diseases, a rising sea level and lots more
extreme weather just like the recent El Ni4o.

Earth Day has turned into an annual opportunity for feel-good public relations
from our worst polluters. So when you hear the Chemical Manufacturers
Association tell you, "We're all in this together," or you get invited to the
National Association of Manufacturers Earth Day event, remember, actions speak
louder than words.

The Southern Company has spent millions to make you believe that air pollution
is from sprawl pointing the finger at you in your car instead of their dozens of
antiquated coal-fired power plants.

Exxon puts out glossy environmental reports but then sends its CEO to China to
tell the Chinese to oppose U.S. actions to stop climate change or else lose
Exxon?s business.

Monsanto wants to feed you a smorgasbord of genetically engineered fruits and
vegetables.

These same corporations that are celebrating their dubious contributions to the
environment, provide daily campaign financing to politicians to weaken our
environmental laws.

So on Earth Day, do all the good neighbor stuff. Pick up litter and plug in some
energy-efficient light bulbs. I will. But, in addition, do something, as the
poet Wendell Berry wrote, "Something that doesn't compute." For instance:

* Read the Lorax to your kids.

* Cut up a gasoline credit card and send it to Mobil and Ford.

* Make calls to polluting corporations on their 800 numbers.

* Call your elected officials and see if it takes longer to get through when you
say you are a concerned citizen than if you say you are a local polluter.

* Call up an environmental group and make them tell you where polluters are in
your neighborhood and what they are pumping into your air and water

* Write an op-ed or a letter to the editor of your local paper.

Whatever you do, do something, something fun. And no matter how small or
insignificant it seems, do it.

Passacantando is co-founder and executive director of Ozone Action. Distributed
by Knight Ridder/Tribune Information Services.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Passacantando

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              57 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 June 23, 1998

Dodger blue turns pink as bosses get the slip

BYLINE: Phil Rogers

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 976 words


For decades, there has been no more pastoral spot in the major leagues than
Chavez Ravine. But grass seldom grows under the feet of Rupert Murdoch and those
who work for the media magnate.

Given the stark climatic change around Dodger Stadium since Fox purchased the
team from the O'Malley family in March, it was no surprise that General Manager
Fred Claire and Manager Bill Russell were ousted. Neither is ita surprise that
their replacements, Hall of Famer Tommy Lasorda and the heretofore obscure Glenn
Hoffman, were told they are secure in their new positions only until the end of
the season.

Change is the order of the day in Los Angeles. It comes at the confluence of new
ownership and an extended period of futility. The Dodgers have been in 18 World
Series -- but none since 1988. This is their longest gap without a Series
appearance since 1920-41.

"Our job is to get the ballclub headed in the right direction," Lasorda said at
a news conference Monday.

Lasorda, who retired as the Dodgers' manager midway through the 1996 season amid
health problems, long had campaigned to become the GM, which didn't sit well
with Russell.

"Tommy's just killing me and Fred (Claire) with the Fox people. Fred knows it. I
know it. And there's nothing we can do about it," he recently told a Los Angeles
reporter. "It's tough to work under these conditions.

"Tommy's just vicious when he wants something. He did the same sort of thing
when he was a coach under Walter Alston, and wanted Alston's job. Tommy's been
second-guessing me ever since I took over for him."

Lasorda's return to power triggers speculation about a chain reaction that ends
with New York Mets manager Bobby Valentine moving to Los Angeles after this
season, perhaps along with Mets Assistant GM Omar Minaya.

Dodgers President Bob Graziano said Hoffman would get a chance to remove
"interim" from his title, but downplayed the chances of Lasorda remaining GM. He
said he plans for Lasorda to be "intimately involved with baseball operations"
working alongside a future GM.

There is a chance Lasorda and Hoffman, who was promoted from Triple-A
Albuquerque despite a 246-302 record as a minor-league manager, could be filling
in only until Manager Jim Leyland and GM Dave Dombrowski are free to leave the
Florida Marlins. Both are expected to exercise escape clauses in their contracts
after this season.

Valentine, who is under contract with the Mets through 1999, and Lasorda have
remained extremely close since Valentine played for Lasorda in the Pacific Coast
League from 1969-71. Minaya, who is in his first year with the Mets, worked
alongside Valentine with the Texas Rangers.

Minaya is among the candidates whom Lasorda and Graziano will review over the
next few months. Cincinnati Reds GM Jim Bowden, White Sox AssistantGM Dan Evans,
Cleveland Baseball Operations Director Dan O'Dowd, Texas Assistant GM Dan
O'Brien Jr., Anaheim Assistant GM Ken Forsch, Houston Assistant GM Tim Purpura
and San Diego Padres pitching coach/special assistant Dave Stewart also are
expected to receive consideration.

Claire and Russell epitomized the organizational sense of loyalty that
characterized the Dodgers under the late Walter O'Malley and his son Peter, who
had owned the team since 1950. Claire, 62, had spent 30 years with the
franchise, including 12 as the GM. Russell, 49, had been with the Dodgers 32
years. The three-time all-star shortstop had worked for no one else since being
drafted from Pittsburg (Kan.) High School in 1966.

But under Fox, the Dodgers have become in step with other corporations.
Productivity, not sentiment, has become the bottom line. Claire and Russell were
fired at the end of a 2-4 road trip that dropped the Dodgers' record to 36-38
and left them 121/2 games behind San Diego in the National League West.

Much more was expected from a team that began the season with a $48 million
payroll and took on an additional $6.9 million in payroll while severing ties
with all-star catcher Mike Piazza. In that trade May 15, the Dodgers sent Piazza
and third baseman Todd Zeile to the downsizing Marlins for right-fielder Gary
Sheffield, catcher Charles Johnson, third baseman Bobby Bonilla and first
baseman/outfielder Jim Eisenreich. Los Angeles entered Monday night's game 17-17
since the trade.

Claire voiced dissatisfaction that he was left out of the loop on hairman Chase
Carey and Florida President Don Smiley put together.

Russell, who had a 173-149 record in two years on the job, becomes the first
Dodgers' manager to be fired since Charlie Dressen in 1953. Dressen's
replacement, Walter Alston, served 23 years before Lasorda replaced him.

(from box)

THE BIG SHAKE-UP

WHO'S IN: Tommy Lasorda, 70, a Hall of Fame manager, returns as the new general
manager, at least temporarily. Nobody is identified with Dodger blue more than
this 49-year popular club vet. Since he was "retired" as manager with heart
problems in 1996, Lasorda has been a club vice president with little to do.

Glenn Hoffman, 39, is the new manager. Hoffman, who spent nine years in the
majors as a reserve infielder, had managed the Dodgers' Triple-A Albuquerque
club to a 27-41 record this year. He is the brother of San Diego Padres closer
Trevor Hoffman.

WHO'S OUT: Manager Bill Russell, 49, a player, coach and manager with Dodgers
for 32 years. A gentleman but no fiery leader, he is the team's first manager to
be rousted in 44 years. His record was 173-149.

General Manager Fred Claire, 62, a former sportswriter, who slowly worked his
way up the ladder in a 29-year career in the organization. Claire, who
constructed a World Series champion in 1988, was cautious to a fault but also
was kept under severe monetary restraint.

COLD-HEARTED FACT: The underachieving Dodgers are 36-38 and 12 1/2 games out of
first place.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Dodgers new management team is really a slice of the old with Tommy
Lasorda, left, and Glenn Hoffman appointed to right the listing ship. The
high-pressure Fox ownership group will give them a half-year trial. // Bill
Russell: Mild-mannered ex-manager grew weary of second-guessing. 'Tommy's just
vicious when he wants something,' he says.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              59 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 15, 1998

Energy industry seen as economic stabilizer; U.S. energy secretary

BYLINE: Pauline Arrillaga

SECTION: Business; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 505 words


HOUSTON -- As instability persists in financial markets from Asia to Russia, the
energy industry could serve as a stabilizer by providing new business
opportunities worldwide, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson told a conference of
industry leaders Monday.

"It is true that energy paces the world's economy, but there is a huge market
for existing and emerging energy suppliers and industries," Richardson said in a
speech to the 17th Congress of the World Energy Council.

"There is enormous potential for energy to be a driver of economic recovery,
stability and growth in every region of the world," he said.

Richardson, sworn in just a month ago, noted that worldwide energy use is
expected to double by 2030 and quadruple by the end of the next century. Oil
demand also is expected to rise 2 percent annually over the next 20 years.

While the increased demand means increased opportunities, it also creates
additional environmental and financial challenges, Richardson said.

By 2015, world carbon emissions are expected to increase by 3.5 billion metric
tons over current levels as energy production remains a primary contributor to
air pollution.

New technologies in energy production have been successful in reducing
pollution, but more must be done to protect the environment while sustaining
demand for fossil fuels, Richardson said.

"There is no reason why we cannot develop and deploy technologies that virtually
eliminate the cause of acid rain and the release of smog-forming pollutants," he
said.

Global warming also remains a serious problem for the industry, Richardson said.

He called a climate treaty signed by the United States and other nations in
Kyoto, Japan, last December "a good first step in getting a handle" on the
problem. The agreement calls for actions to slow the growth of greenhouse gases.

However, Richardson said he also planned to establish an office at the
Department of Energy to work with developing nations to create more "climate
-friendly" technologies.

About 5,000 industry leaders -- including presidents, energy ministers and oil
executives from about 100 countries -- have gathered at the conference to
discuss how to take the energy industry into the next century.

Also addressing delegates Monday was British Petroleum Chief Executive Sir John
Browne, who announced plans last month to purchase Amoco Corp. in the world's
largest industrial merger.

Browne said while oil prices have plunged to more than 40 percent below where
they were a decade ago, the industry has survived because technological
developments have decreased the cost of doing business.

"The reason we're all still in business is that finding, development and lifting
costs have all fallen -- on average by almost a third in real terms over the
last decade," Browne said.

The World Energy Council, based in London, is an international policy forum that
researches all forms of energy, from oil and gas and hydro power to renewable
energy sources such as solar power and wind.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              66 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 28, 1998

Excerpts from the State of the Union address

SECTION: News; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 3174 words


Excerpts on some key topics that President Clinton discussed in his State of the
Union address Tuesday night:

The state of America

Because of the hard work and high purpose of the American people, these are good
times for America. We have more than 14 million new jobs, the lowest
unemployment in 24 years, the lowest core inflation in 30 years.

Incomes are rising, and we have the highest home ownership in history. Crime has
dropped for a record five years in a row, and the welfare rolls are at their
lowest levels in 27 years.

Our leadership in the world is unrivaled. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of our
union is strong.

Federal deficit

For three decades, six presidents have come before you to warn of the damage
deficits pose to our nation. Tonight, I come before you to announce that the
federal deficit -- once so incomprehensibly large that it had 11 zeros -- will
be simply zero.

I will submit to Congress for 1999 the first balanced budget in 32 years. And,
if we hold fast to fiscal discipline, we may balance the budget this year, four
years ahead of schedule.

Tax cuts

We must not go back to unwise spending or untargeted tax cuts that risk
reopening the deficit. ...

My plan to balance the budget next year includes both new investments and new
tax cuts, targeted to the needs of working families. For education. For child
care.  For the environment.

But whether the issue is tax cuts or spending, I ask all of you to meet this
test: Approve only those priorities that can actually be accomplished without
adding a dime to the deficit.

Social Security

Now if we balance the budget for next year, it is projected that we'll then have
a sizable surplus in the years that immediately follow. What should we do with
this projected surplus?

I have a simple, four-word answer: Save Social Security first.

Tonight, I propose that we reserve 100 percent of the surplus -- that's every
penny of any surplus -- until we have taken all the necessary measures to
strengthen the Social Security system for the 21st century.

Let us say -- let us say to all Americans watching tonight -- whether you're 70
or 50 or whether you just started paying into the system -- Social Security will
be there when you need it.

Let us make this commitment: Social Security first. Let's do that -- together.

I also want to say that all the American people who are watching us tonight
should be invited to join in this discussion. ... We'll start by conducting
nonpartisan forums in every region of the country. And I hope that lawmakers of
both parties will participate.

We'll hold the White House conference on Social Security in December. And one
year from now, I will convene the leaders of Congress to craft historic,
bipartisan legislation to achieve a landmark for our generation: A Social
Security system that is strong in the 21st century.

Minimum wage

Because these times are good, we can afford to take one simple, sensible step to
help millions of workers struggling to provide for their families. We should
raise the minimum wage.

Education

Now we must make our public elementary and secondary schools the world's best
... by raising standards, raising expectations and raising accountability.

Thanks to the actions of this Congress last year, we will soon have for the very
first time a voluntary national test based on national standards in fourth-grade
reading and eighth-grade math. Parents have a right to know whether their
children are mastering the basics.

And every parent already knows the key: good teachers and small classes.
Tonight, I propose the first-ever national effort to reduce class size in the
early grades.

My balanced budget will help to hire 100,000 new teachers who pass the state
competency test. ... We will actually be able to reduce class size in the first,
second and third grades to an average of 18 students a class all across America.
...

We must also demand greater accountability. When we promote a child from grade
to grade who hasn't mastered the work, we don't do that child any favors.

It is time to end social promotion in America's schools.

Free trade

Today, record-high exports account for fully one-third of our economic growth. I
want to keep them going because that's the way to keep America growing and to
advance a safer, more stable world.

Now, all of you know, whatever your views are, that I think this is a great
opportunity for America. I know there is opposition to more comprehensive trade
agreements. ...

I think we should seek to advance worker and environmental standards around the
world. ...

This year, I will send legislation to Congress -- and ask other nations to join
us -- to fight the most intolerable practice of all: abusive child labor. ...

This year, we will forge new partnerships with Latin America, Asia and Europe.
And we should pass the new African Trade Act. It has bipartisan support.

I will also renew my request for the fast- track negotiating authority necessary
to open more new markets, create more new jobs, which every president has had
for two decades.

Worker training

We should also offer help and hope to those Americans temporarily left behind by
the global marketplace or the march of technology. ...

That's why we have more than doubled funding for training dislocated workers
since 1993, and if my new budget is adopted, we will triple funding.

That's why we must do more and more quickly to help workers who lose their jobs
for whatever reason.

You know, we help communities in a special way when their military base closes.
We ought to help them in the same way if their factory closes.

Again, I ask the Congress to continue its bipartisan work to consolidate the
tangle of training programs we have today into one single GI Bill for workers --
a simple skills grant so people can, on their own, move quickly to new jobs, to
higher incomes and brighter futures.

Asian financial crisis

Recent months have brought serious financial problems to Thailand, Indonesia,
South Korea and beyond.

Now why should Americans be concerned about this?

First, these countries are our customers. If they sink in a recession, they
won't be able to buy the goods we'd like to sell them. Second, they're also our
competitors. So if their currencies lose their value and go down, then the price
of their goods will drop, flooding our market and others with much cheaper
goods, which makes it a lot tougher for our people to compete.

And finally, they are our strategic partners. Their stability bolsters our
security.

The American economy remains sound and strong, and I want to keep it that way.
But because the turmoil in Asia will have an impact on all the world's
economies, including ours, making that negative impact as small as possible is
the right thing to do for America and the right thing to do for a safer world.

Our policy is clear. No nation can recover if it does not reform itself.

But when nations are willing to undertake serious economic reform, we should
help them do it. So I call on Congress to renew America's commitment to the
International Monetary Fund.

Welfare

We still have a lot more to do -- all of us -- to make welfare reform a success.
Providing child care, helping families move closer to available jobs,
challenging more companies to join our welfare-to-work partnership, increasing
child support collections from deadbeat parents who have a duty to support their
own children.

I also want to thank Congress for restoring some of the benefits to immigrants
who are here legally and working hard, and I hope you will finish that job this
year.

Health care

A hundred and sixty million of our fellow citizens are in managed-care plans.
These plans save money and they can improve care. But medical decisions ought to
be made by medical doctors, not insurance company accountants.

I urge this Congress to reach across the aisle and write into law a consumer
bill of rights that says this:

You have the right to know all your medical options, not just the cheapest.

You have the right to choose the doctor you want for the care you need.

You have the right to emergency room care wherever and whenever you need it.

You have the right to keep your medical records confidential.

Medicare

Millions of Americans between the ages of 55 and 65 have lost their health
insurance. Some are retired. Some are laid off.  Some lose their coverage when
their spouses retire. After a lifetime of work, they are left with nowhere to
turn.

So I ask the Congress, let these hard- working Americans buy into the Medicare
system. It won't add a dime to the deficit, but the peace of mind it will
provide will be priceless.

Tobacco

Next, we must help parents protect their children from the gravest health threat
they face -- an epidemic of teen smoking, spread by multimillion-dollar
marketing campaigns.

I challenge Congress -- let's pass bipartisan, comprehensive legislation that
will improve public health, protect our tobacco farmers and change the way
tobacco companies do business forever. Let's do what it takes to bring teen
smoking down.

Let's raise the price of cigarettes by up to $1.50 a pack over the next 10 years
with penalties on the tobacco industry if it keeps marketing to our children.

Tomorrow, like every day, 3,000 children will start smoking, and 1,000 will die
early as a result. Let this Congress be remembered as the Congress that saved
their lives.

Child care

Child care is the next frontier we must face to enable people to succeed at home
and at work. ...

Here's my plan: Help families to pay for child care for a million more children;
scholarships and background checks for child-care workers and a new emphasis on
early learning; tax credits for businesses that provide child care for their
employees; and a larger child-care tax credit for working families.

Now, if you pass my plan, what this means is a family of four with an income of
$35,000 and high child-care costs will no longer pay a single penny of federal
income tax.

Crime

Now, we need to finish the job of putting 100,000 more police on our streets.

And again, I ask Congress to pass a juvenile crime bill that provides more
prosecutors and probation officers to crack down on gangs and guns and drugs,
and bar violent juveniles from buying guns for life.

And I ask you to dramatically expand our support for after-school programs. I
think every American should know that most juvenile crime is committed between
the hours of 3 in the afternoon and 8 at night.

We can keep so many of our children out of trouble in the first place if we give
them someplace to go other than the streets, and we ought to do it.

Drugs

Drug use is on the decline. ... Now I ask you to join me in a groundbreaking
effort to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol agents and to deploy the most
sophisticated available new technologies to help close the door on drugs at our
borders.

Expanding NATO

Within days, I will ask the Senate for its advice and consent to make Hungary,
Poland and the Czech Republic the newest members of NATO. For 50 years, NATO
contained communism and kept America and Europe secure. Now these three formerly
communist countries have said yes to democracy. I ask the Senate to say yes to
them -- our new allies.

U.S. troops in Bosnia

I will ask Congress to continue its support for our troops and their mission in
Bosnia.

This Christmas, Hillary and I traveled to Sarajevo with Senator and Mrs. Dole
and a bipartisan congressional delegation. We saw children playing in the
streets, where two years ago they were hiding from snipers and shells. The shops
were filled with food. The cafes were alive with conversation.

The progress there is unmistakable, but it is not yet irreversible. To take firm
root, Bosnia's fragile peace still needs the support of American and allied
troops when the current NATO mission ends in June.

I think Senator Dole actually said it best. He said, This is like being ahead in
the fourth quarter of a football game. Now is not the time to walk off the field
and forfeit the victory.''

Nuclear weapons

By ending nuclear testing, we can help to prevent the development of new and
more dangerous weapons and make it more difficult for non-nuclear states to
build them.

I'm pleased to announce that four former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
-- Generals John Shalikashvili, Colin Powell and David Jones, and Admiral
William Crowe -- have endorsed this treaty. And I ask the Senate to approve it
this year.

Standoff with Iraq

Saddam Hussein has spent the better part of this decade, and much of his
nation's wealth, not on providing for the Iraqi people but on developing
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to deliver them.

The United Nations' weapons inspectors have done a remarkable job, finding and
destroying more of Iraq's arsenal than was destroyed during the entire Gulf War.
Now, Saddam Hussein wants to stop them from completing their mission.

I know I speak for everyone in this chamber, Republicans and Democrats, when I
say to Saddam Hussein: You cannot defy the will of the world. You have used
weapons of mass destruction before.  We are determined to deny you the capacity
to use them again.

Biological warfare

Last year, the Senate ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention to protect our
soldiers and citizens from poison gas.  Now we must act to prevent the use of
disease as a weapon of war and terror. The Biological Weapons Convention has
been in effect for 23 years now. The rules are good, but the enforcement weak.
We must strengthen it with a new international inspection system to detect and
deter cheating.

United Nations

Finally, it's long past time to make good on our debt to the United Nations.
More and more, we are working with other nations to achieve common goals. If we
want America to lead, we must set a good example. As we see so clearly in
Bosnia, allies who share our goals can share our burdens. In this new era, our
freedom and independence are actually enriched, not weakened, by our increasing
interdependence with other nations. But we have to do our part.

Campaign finance reform

Everyone knows elections have become too expensive, fueling a fund-raising arms
race. This year, by March 6, at long last the Senate will actually vote on
bipartisan campaign finance reform proposed by Senators McCain and Feingold.

Let's be clear -- a vote against McCain- Feingold is a vote for soft money and
for the status quo. I ask you to strengthen our democracy and pass campaign
finance reform.

But, at least equally important, we have to address the real reason for the
explosion in campaign costs: the high cost of media advertising. ... I will
formally request that the Federal Communications Commission act to provide free
or reduced-cost television time for candidates to observe spending limits
voluntarily.

The airwaves are a public trust, and broadcasters also have to help us in this
effort to strengthen our democracy.

Internal Revenue Service reform

Like every taxpayer, I'm outraged by the reports of abuses by the IRS. We need
some changes there: new citizen advocacy panels, a stronger taxpayer advocate,
phone lines open 24 hours a day, relief for innocent taxpayers.

Last year, by an overwhelming bipartisan margin, the House of Representatives
passed sweeping IRS reforms. This bill must not now languish in the Senate.

Tonight, I ask the Senate: Follow the House. Pass the bipartisan package as your
first order of business.

Urban policy

A nation that lives as a community must value its communities.

For the past five years, we have worked to bring the spark of private enterprise
to inner-city and poor, rural areas with community development banks, more
commercial loans into poor neighborhoods, cleanup of polluted sites for
development.  ... We propose to triple the number of empowerment zones to give
business incentives to invest in those areas.

We should also give poor families more help to move into homes of their own.
And we should use tax cuts to spur the construction of more low-income housing.

Environment

Tonight I ask you to join me in launching a new clean water initiative, a far-
reaching effort to clean our rivers, our lakes and our coastal waters for our
children.

Our overriding environmental challenge tonight is the worldwide problem of
climate change, global warming, the gathering crisis that requires worldwide
action. The vast majority of scientists have concluded unequivocally that if we
don't reduce the emission of greenhouse gasses at some point in the next
century, we'll disrupt our climate and put our children and grandchildren at
risk.

This past December, America led the world to reach a historic agreement
committing our nation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through market forces,
new technologies, energy efficiency.

We have it in our power to act right here, right now. I propose $6 billion in
tax cuts and research and development to encourage innovation, renewable energy,
fuel-efficient cars, energy-efficient homes.

Racial discrimination

Discrimination against any American is un-American. We must vigorously enforce
the laws that make it illegal. I ask your help to end the backlog at the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission: 60,000 of our fellow citizens are standing in
line for justice, and we should act now to end their wait.

Gene research and cloning

Tonight, as part of our gift to the next millennium, I propose a 21st century
research fund for pathbreaking scientific inquiry, the largest funding increase
in history for the National Institutes of Health, the National Science
Foundation, the National Cancer Institute.

We have already discovered genes for breast cancer and diabetes. I ask you to
support this initiative, so ours will be the generation that finally wins the
war against cancer and begins a revolution in our fight against all deadly
diseases.

As important as all this scientific progress is, we must continue to see that
science serves humanity, not the other way around. We must prevent the misuse of
genetic tests to discriminate against any American. And we must ratify the
ethical consensus of the scientific and religious communities and ban the
cloning of human beings.

Internet

In schools and libraries, homes and businesses, millions and millions of
Americans surf the Net every day. We must give parents the tools they need to
help protect their children from inappropriate material on the Internet. But we
also must make sure that we protect the exploding global commercial potential of
the Internet. We can do the kinds of things that we need to do and still protect
our kids.

For one thing, I asked Congress to step up support for building the next
generation Internet. It's getting kind of clogged, you know? And the next
generation Internet will operate at speeds up to 1,000 times faster than today.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: With Vice president Al Gore, center, and Speaker of the House Newt
Gingrich, right, standing behind him, President Clinton delivers the State of
the Union address Tuesday. Clinton touched on topics incluiding Social Security,
cloning, campaign finance reform and NATO.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              72 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               November 15, 1998

World sets 2000 deadline for greenhouse gas rules; 160 nations will

BYLINE: Kevin Gray

SECTION: News; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 407 words


BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -- The world community on Saturday endorsed an ambitious
timetable to fight global warming, giving itself until 2000 to decide how to put
into effect a historic 1997 treaty.

After two weeks of negotiations that dragged into the early hours Saturday, 160
nations agreed to set a deadline of two years to adopt rules for cutting
emissions of so-called greenhouse gases.

By 2000, the nations are to decide the nuts-and-bolts issues such as how to
transfer climate-friendly technology to developing countries, whether developed
nations can buy or trade emissions credits from other countries, how to settle
issues of compliance and whether penalties can be assessed against violators.

"Serious hurdles remain to make this workable and complete, but this agreement
today gives us a way to move forward," said Stuart Eizenstat, the chief U.S.
negotiator.

In December 1997, the United States and 37 other industrial nations agreed in
Kyoto, Japan, to binding reductions in their greenhouse gas emissions by 2012 --
setting a target 5 percent below 1990 levels.

On Thursday, the United States became the last major industrial country to sign
the Kyoto protocol. But the move was largely symbolic because Senate
ratification is not likely any time soon.

The Clinton administration has said it won't ask the Senate to vote on the
treaty until such large developing countries as India and China agree to
participate -- and that could take years.

Eizenstat said there still was not enough support among U.S. lawmakers to submit
the treaty for Senate consideration.

He also praised Argentina for announcing Wednesday that it would voluntarily
seek emissions reductions, calling the country a model for other developing
nations.

China and India, which could surpass the United States as leading greenhouse gas
polluters next century, have opposed even talking about voluntary participation
by the emerging world.

A key issue yet to be resolved is a U.S.-European quarrel over the trading of
emissions credits.

The United States wants unfettered trading of credits with countries that have
more than met their pollution targets, helping to blunt the cost of cleaning up
at home.

The European Union, however, wants limits on trading, saying the priority should
be for nations to reduce their actual greenhouse gas at home, not just on paper.

This article includes material from The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              74 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 April 23, 1998

1990s were warmest in 600 years

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: News; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 226 words


NEW YORK -- The years 1997, 1995 and 1990 were the warmest in the Northern
Hemisphere since the days of Christopher Columbus, a study says.

The researchers also say they found evidence that rising levels of greenhouse
gases are probably responsible.

Scientists reconstructed annual average temperatures back to 1400 and found no
year warmer than those three. Either 1997 or 1995 could be considered the
warmest, depending on whether one considers temperatures over land or at the
ocean surface or both, researcher Michael Mann said.

When land and ocean temperatures are combined, 1997 and 1995 ran about
nine-tenths of a degree Fahrenheit above the average for the 20th century, Mann
said.

He and colleagues present the work in today's issue of the journal Nature. Mann
is an adjunct professor of geosciences at the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst.

Climate experts said the study is an early step in such long-term
reconstructions and that more work is needed to improve them.

To reconstruct temperatures over the past 600 years, Mann and colleagues used a
network of indirect indicators, including ancient tree rings, coral and ice, as
well as historical records. They compared those indicators with actual
temperature measurements from 1902 to 1980 to find how to use the ancient data
to estimate average annual temperatures.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              75 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 22, 1998

Writer Coupland's Coma' revels in life's changes; Author best known

BYLINE: Don McLeese

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1396 words


There was a news program on, a show about a crazy man in Texas who had poisoned
a famous historical tree. The citizens of the town were trying to save the
tree's life, pumping water through the soil to wash away the poison, but the
tree was confused. The tree lost its abili ty to detect seasons. It became lost
in time.''

-- DOUGLAS COUPLAND, GIRLFRIEND IN A COMA''

Apropos of nothing, after scarfing down the room-service grilled- cheese
sandwich that would serve as book-tour sustenance, Douglas Coupland began
describing for his telephone interviewer the Seattle hotel quarters in which he
was ensconced. It seems that the Westin in Seattle has converted a former
conference room into an oversized suite, one with more space than Coupland could
possibly need, yet lacking a modern essential: the mini-bar. In consolation, it
offered a huge window onto the city below.

While I've been looking out the window, in the space of this conversation the
weather has entirely collapsed,'' said the author, who will read at 2 p.m. today
at Book People, and who will forever be best known for his 1991 debut,
Generation X: Tales For an Accelerated Culture.''

It went from sunny when we picked up the phone to just abysmal, like a
fast-action, fast-frame shot.''

Unlike so many of the rest of us -- particularly those older than the
36-year-old author, the ones whose minds have been numbed by the familiarity of
mindless routine -- Coupland inhabits a world where rapid transformation is not
only possible, but inevitable, necessary. It's a world in which yesterday is no
guide to tomorrow; one in which the blinders of the past make it harder to
appreciate today's dazzling clarity of infinite possibility. It's a world in
which, over the course of a quick conversation, the weather can entirely
collapse.

Bob Dylan once sang that You don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind
blows,'' but Dylan belongs to the generation before Coupland's. Though Coupland
makes his living as a novelist, he functions more like a weatherman, one who is
acutely attuned to the meteorological shifts of the cultural climate. As
fiction, Coupland's work is chatty in tone, sketchy in characterization, and
anemic in plot development and narrative momentum.  As fact, it has often been
presciently on the money.

Remember the guy who coined the term Baby Boomer''? Me neither, which is why it
is so surprising that Coupland has been able to sustain his cultural cachet,
well after the term Generation X'' has become so dismissively ridiculed.  The
book was reportedly spawned by a pitch from a publisher, which wanted a younger
generation's equivalent of the Yuppie Handbook.'' An art-school graduate who
previously had published a magazine article and collaborated on a cartoon strip
concerning Generation X,'' Coupland turned the handbook idea into what can only
loosely be termed a novel -- more like a sociological survey with stick-figure
characters.

Over the course of the '90s, he has solidified his position as an avatar among a
faithful following of readers, while anticipating the evolution of mall culture
( Shampoo Planet''), spiritual culture ( Life After God'') and tech culture (
Microserfs''). Though every book he has written since has been better than his
first -- at least in regard to the standard criteria by which fiction is judged
-- Coupland is resigned to the reality that he will always be known as the Gen X
guy.''

Gen X, two syllables, OK -- Andy Warhol has his soup cans, and Douglas
Coupland's a strange name which is hard for people to remember,'' he said.  I
always see these TV shows when tornadoes attack, and you've got these people who
were at a baseball game or a picnic or were driving to school.  And then out of
nowhere came this huge tornado, and they just happened to have a camera- corder.

They were there at the moment it struck, and they got these photos. I don't know
if it was just being in a certain place at a certain time -- and I won't say the
right place at the right time -- but I just got a lot of really big photos.''

Inevitably, Coupland's perspective has shifted over the course of the decade. In
the breezy manner of a post-modern sitcom, Generation X'' presented three
characters trapped in McJobs and suffering from Boomer Envy, straddling a past
that looked ludicrous and a future that looked hopeless. ( You have to wonder
why we even bother to get up in the morning. I mean, really: Why work? Simply to
buy more stuff? That's just not enough.'')

Where the Generation X-ers couldn't see any way -- or reason -- for them to fit
in an adult world, the characters in Girlfriend in a Coma'' are adults, at least
by default. The world has somehow accommodated to them, or they to it.  What
seemed like a dead end in Generation X'' was apparently only a detour.

Back when X' came out, it was one of the birthing cries of ironic culture,''
Coupland said.  If you had to think of one or two words that describe culture in
the first half of the decade, I'd say reflexively ironic.' But people are
realizing, and I've realized it, too, that irony will only take you so far. It
will take you to a certain place, but you will never be able to transcend the
world using irony. It's a facet of life, and an interesting one, but it doesn't
have to do with feeling, morality and transcendence. It's like math is really
interesting, but you're not going to be able to draw a picture of heaven using
mathematics.''

Nor climb to heaven on a ladder of irony?

I think not,'' the author replied.  In this book, by far the larger sum of the
transformation of the characters has to do with surrendering irony. It's what
you know, and you don't know if whatever system you adopt in its stead is going
to work. Look how much it takes for the characters even to consider change, and
even then they drag their feet.

Part of that is that there is no going back. You have your responsibility to
your family, your society and your culture, but you also have a responsibility
to yourself to always think things over more clearly. In hindsight, it's always
obvious. I think there's a possibility of instant hindsight -- just waiting for
that one word, that moment, that emotion that's going to make you go, Yes!'''

Taking its title from a Smiths song and its inspiration from a photograph of
Karen Ann Quinlan, whose coma in the '70s spurred so much popular intrigue,
Girlfriend in a Coma'' concerns the possibilities of redemption and rebirth --
both as an adult and for the world at large. If he hadn't previously titled a
collection Life After God,'' he could have easily called this Life After
Apocalypse.'' As the book explains, it is sort of a reverse version of It's a
Wonderful Life,'' where instead of the characters seeing what the world would
have been like without them, they discover what they might be like without the
world.

As always in dealing with dark themes, Coupland's tone is more comic than
tragic. He is playfully bemused by the possibilities inherent in his plot, one
that is initially narrated by a ghost, subsequently finds its coma patient
giving birth and waking up to a 17-year-old daughter, and eventually involves
itself with The X-Files,'' which shoots not far from Coupland's home in
Vancouver, British Columbia.

After the ironic ennui into which Generation X'' slumped ( I want to fall in
love. Or at least I think I do. I'm not sure. It looks so.  . .messy.''),
Girlfriend In a Coma'' resolves itself on a note of ringing affirmation, almost
a clarion call to arms for soldiers of the millenial Zeitgeist:

We'll be adults who smash the tired, exhausted system. We'll crawl and chew and
dig our way into a radical new world. We will change minds and souls from stone
and plastic into linen and gold -- that's what I believe.  That's what I know.''

Whew. Is the author of Girlfriend in a Coma'' more hopeful than the guy who
wrote Generation X''?

I think so,'' he replied.  When you're younger, you just know that much less
about human beings as a group. Given everything that has come down the pipe in
seven years, all the cultural changes, I think people have handled everything
really well. I think we're made of better stuff than I used to think.''

Before heading out to the evening's reading, he had one question of his own:
What's the weather like in Austin?''

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Douglas Coupland will read from his new book at 2 p.m. today at Book
People.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              76 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 31, 1998

Political turmoil of 1968 sparked change

BYLINE: By Robert ShoganThe Los Angeles Times

SECTION: News; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 891 words


WASHINGTON -- Robert F. Kennedy knew he needed to win the 1968 California
Democratic primary to keep his presidential candidacy alive. The returns on the
night of June 4 -- 30 years ago next week -- told him he had done that, but he
also knew the odds remained stacked against him and in favor of his chief rival,
Vice President Hubert Humphrey.

"It's still an uphill climb," Kennedy told his friend, then-Sen. George
McGovern, D-S.D., who called him from Washington. "But I'll chase Hubert all
over the country, and I've got a chance."

It turned out Kennedy would have had no chance . Within an hour of talking to
McGovern, Kennedy was killed by an assassin's bullet in the Ambassador Hotel in
Los Angeles; the scene of his bloodied head being cradled by horrified
supporters remains etched in the national consciousness.

"I was in despair," McGovern recently recalled. So were millions of other
Americans who had regarded Kennedy as the man best able to lead the country out
of the morass of the Vietnam War.

His death was the climax in a year of traumas that sent a good part of the
citizenry into a deep funk about politics -- a mood that for many persists at
the approach of the millennium. But of broader consequence, the turbulence of
1968 touched off a tidal wave of change that engulfed the political system and
swept into the nooks and crannies of national life.

"It was a defining moment for the baby boom generation," said Democratic
pollster Mark Mellman. "The country and the world have not been the same since."

The high spirits that energized the peace movement turned out to be overmatched
by the entrenched power of the political establishment. But the underlying
enthusiasm for change and eagerness to challenge authority and convention proved
contagious and enduring.

"Enough changed so even people who wanted to repeal change have had to take
account of what happened," said Todd Gitlin, New York University social
scientist and expert on the movements of the '60s.

Many believe that beyond the specific upheavals, the enduring legacy of that
period is what Gitlin calls "the spirit of ferocious individualism, the belief
that people can do whatever they please."

That attitude energized the various assaults on established structures and ideas
pressed by the radical left. But in Gitlin's view, much the same spirit now
animates such contemporary icons of the right as House Speaker Newt Gingrich,
R-Ga., who was finishing work on his master's degree in 1968.

"Gingrich is a yippie in pinstripes," Gitlin said. "He actually affirms in his
behavior what was the fundamental attitude of 1968: 'I am who I am, and I'm
going to express how I feel and the hell with the consequences.' "

The volatile climate of 1968 was brought to a boil by two raging national
arguments -- over race and Vietnam.  Black Americans' century-old struggle for
equality had found an impassioned champion in President Lyndon B. Johnson. But
by 1968, he was in serious political trouble because of his continued escalation
of the U.S. commitment in Vietnam.

In January, Communist forces launched the Tet offensive, a massive surprise
attack that contrasted with the reassuring picture Johnson had presented of the
war and led to a surge in opposition to him. Johnson then delivered another jolt
when he decided not to seek re-election.

The political turmoil was soon overshadowed by tragedy on the racial front --
the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. on April 4.
Outraged blacks rioted in cities around the country, infuriating whites already
resentful of black militancy and bolstering Alabama Gov. George Wallace's
third-party bid for the presidency.

Disorder, protest and confrontation became the rule of the day. Peace activists
set fire to their draft cards. Restless college students seized buildings,
destroyed property and disrupted classes. Most dramatic of all was the violence
in the streets at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, where police
and National Guardsmen clashed with peace demonstrators chanting, "The whole
world is watching."

All this was grist for the mill of Richard Nixon, the Republican presidential
nominee who made law and order the theme of his campaign and narrowly defeated
Humphrey.

Nixon's victory ushered in a 24-year period of GOP White House domination ,
broken only by the one-term presidency of Jimmy Carter. And Carter's election
was a product of the Watergate scandal, itself rooted in the domestic conflict
that had reached its height in 1968.

The Democrats -- their various constituencies at odds over the war and racial
issues -- also suffered because the traumas of 1968 undermined the public's
faith in government, long the party's chief stock in trade. The decline gave
Democrats even more reason to mourn the abrupt passing of Robert Kennedy, who
many believed was the one figure who could have kept them united and overcome
the disillusionment that soon plagued the citizenry at large.

"One of the things that has persisted out of that whole era is disenchantment
with a large number of social and political institutions," said Kent Jennings, a
University of California at Santa Barbara political scientist who has conducted
interviews over the years with more than 1,000 people who were high school
seniors in 1965.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Robert Kennedy shown campaigning for the Democratic presidential
nomination. His assassination in 1968 was the climax in a series of traumas that
created a wide lack of trust in the government.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              78 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 6, 1998

Hot debate over cooling Mount Vernon

BYLINE: Bob Dart

SECTION: News; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 978 words


MOUNT VERNON, Va. -- Nearly 200 years after George Washington died in an
upstairs bedroom of his beloved plantation overlooking the Potomac River, his
house is getting air conditioning.

That's cool with most folks. Millions of summer visitors have sweated through
tours of the carefully preserved home of the nation's first president, and
electric fans are needed to keep guides from fainting in the stifling heat.

But a few preservationists are downright hot over the decision of Mount Vernon's
governing board to install a $1 million computerized climate control system in
one of America's most historic homes.

"I've died a thousand times over this," said Marc LeFrancois, Mount Vernon's
former architectural curator, who resigned in protest over the air conditioning
issue.

"That place is so important," LeFrancois said. "To do that much damage for
something that may not work, and probably won't work, is just unethical."

It was not a decision made lightly, conceded James Rees, resident director of
the Mount Vernon Estate and Garden.

Built in 1735, Mount Vernon has survived for more than 250 years without air
conditioning. During the sweltering summers, George and Martha Washington would
dine outside on the portico to catch the breeze blowing in from the river. He
loved the view.

"No estate in the United States is more pleasantly situated than this,"
Washington wrote in 1793.

Tourists today see an estate that is much the same as in Washington's lifetime.

The Mount Vernon Ladies Association, America's oldest national historic
preservation organization, raised $200,000 to purchase the 500-acre plantation
from the first president's great-grandnephew in the 1850s and has owned and
operated it ever since. More than 1 million visitors tour the 18th century
mansion and grounds each year, making it the nation's second most visited
historic home, behind the White House.

This is a place where the past is revered. George Washington walked on the
hardwood floors, chose the paintings on the parlor walls, wrote at the desk in
the study, ate hoecakes and honey for breakfast in the small dining room,
fretted over the nearby furrowed fields and died in the four-poster bed
upstairs. Change does not come easily here.

Indeed, Rees went to Rome to check out the Sistine Chapel's new air conditioning
before agreeing that a similar system would work at Mount Vernon.

"I didn't get to talk to the pope" about Btu and air ducts, said Rees. But he
did hire the same company -- Carrier Corp. -- and the same engineer who designed
and installed the system in the Sistine Chapel.

Final approval for the Mount Vernon system was granted in June, and the air
conditioning and heating system is scheduled to be operating this autumn, in
time for a yearlong bicentennial commemoration of Washington's death, on Dec.
14, 1799.

The pros and cons of air conditioning have been considered for years, Rees said,
and technological advances finally tipped the scales toward installation.

There are drawbacks, he acknowledged. The primary problem is that "you have to
cut through original fabric in the mansion" to put in air ducts and other parts
of the system.

Critics have decried this "irreversible" destruction of 18th century plaster and
wood.

"It's extremely sad," said Christine Meadows, a former Mount Vernon curator.

However, this is not the first time such action has been deemed necessary, Rees
pointed out. The original structure was cut to install electricity, heating,
lighting and fire protection in earlier decades.

He said care is being taken to minimize damage to the original building, and
more than half of the air conditioning vents were put in without destroying
original fabric. The work was done inside closets and in other hidden areas
wherever possible.

The second major concern was condensation. Mount Vernon is built of wood, and
its historic planks are vulnerable to water damage.

This is where technology came in, Rees said. The computerized system will ensure
that there is never such a difference in temperature and humidity to cause
condensation. The formula is complex, said Rees, but basically the range will
never be more than 15 degrees when the air conditioning is on. If the outside
temperature is 100 degrees, the temperature inside Mount Vernon will be about
85.

"People rate below objects" in this equation, he said.

The entire project is aimed more at preserving the historic house and
furnishings than at providing comfort for visitors and employees.

"In summer now, we do what George Washington did -- open the doors and windows,"
Rees said. "That lets in dirt and dust and light," all of which can damage the
historic furnishings. Carefully controlling the climate will help preserve the
mansion's artifacts, he said.

Currently, the Smithsonian Institution and other museums and historic houses
will not lend Mount Vernon art and furniture that Washington owned because of
the uncontrolled environment, Rees said. Once the climate control system is
working, these traveling exhibits will enable the curators to make the house
even more as it was when the nation's first first family lived there, he said.

"We will be able to bring home many of Washington's artifacts, which have been
maintained by collectors and museums around the country," said Carter King
Laughlin, Mount Vernon's curator. "Without a modern climate control system, we
are limited in the variety of historical artifacts we can borrow from other
collections to display here."

To preserve the pastoral setting, the system's condenser is located in a wooded
area about 200 yards from the mansion, hidden from visitors by trees. Buried
pipes connect it to the underground air circulation equipment about 100 feet
from the house. The only visible parts of the system will be small air vents in
ceilings.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mount Vernon, George Washington's beloved plantation overlooking the
Potomac River, is getting air conditioning, which curators say will help
preserve the building and artifacts. Critics say installing the system is doing
needless damage to the historic structure. // A worker screws together sheet
metal from inside one of the air ducts in the basement of Mount Vernon. Work is
being done inside closets and other hidden areas when possible. // This pit
about 100 feet from the house will hold circulation equipment for the air
conditioning system, keeping it away from the historic mansion. The condenser is
in a wooded area 200 feet from the house.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              80 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 10, 1998

Crew bails out, leaving baloon adrift 8 hours; Around-the-world trip

BYLINE: Matt Mygatt

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 592 words


It was supposed to be a history-making 20,000 mile nonstop voyage around the
world in a balloon.

It ended up a 100-mile trip with a bumpy parachute landing for the balloonists,
and with a pilotless craft carrying explosive fuel floating freely for eight
hours before hitting the ground near the Texas-Oklahoma border.

The flight was going fine for Dick Rutan and Dave Melton until " all of a sudden
there was this boom," Rutan said at a news conference after he and Melton were
forced to abandon their ship when a rip developed in the balloon.  "Dave looked
at me and said, 'We're in trouble.'"

Rutan and Melton parachuted in 45 mph winds Friday morning, about 100 miles into
thier journey.  they landed a quarter-mile apart about 13 miles southeast of
Vaughn, N.M.

Rutan, 59, hit cactus and suffered bloody puncture wounds over his nose and
cheeks. He was still pulling cactus needles from his face hours later.

Melton, 39, hit the only wire fence in the wide-open area, and later was
hospitalized in serious condition with a dislocated hip and ankle.

Rutan said they considered trying to land, but surface winds were too strong.

We were airborne in something that was highly suspect, heavily laden with fuel,
and Dave and I came to the realization we have to abandon this thing,'' he said.

The Federal Aviation Administration had ordered all aircraft to stay clear of
the 170-foot unmanned balloon, which ended up draped over some trees near
Gainesville, about 75 miles north of Dallas.

Before coming to a stop, the tattered balloon struck the ground four of feive
times, sparking a small fire when it hit some power lines.  The fire, which
officials said did not involve the balloon's propane tanks, was extinguished.

Earlier Friday, the North American Air Defense Command sent up chase planes to
keep watch on the balloon. FAA spokesman Roland Herwig said the balloon was not
seriously interfering with air traffic and that he had heard no talk of trying
to shoot down the craft.

A rip in the helium-filled inner balloon was reported at 7:28 a.m. Friday, about
an hour after the craft lifted off from Albuquerque.  The men parachuted out of
the silver vessel's ball-shaped capsule around 9 a.m.

Rutan said they opened a valve before parachuting so that helium would seep out
and the balloon would descend.

The balloon briefly touched down in New Mexico, but then bounced back up to
30,000 feet after some of its 20 propane tanks fell off. Team project manager
Steve Shope said there was little risk that the 48-gallon tanks would explode.

The Global Hilton, which was making its maiden flight, is a combination hot-air
balloon and helium balloon, with propane tanks to fuel the flames that warm the
air.

The plan had been to rise 32,000 feet into the jet stream and ride 200 mph air
currents around the globe in about 14 days in the first nonstop around-the-world
balloon flight.

Rutan, a former Air Force pilot, helped fly the experimental plane Voyager
around the world nonstop 11 years ago. Melton, a technician at Los Alamos
National Laboratory, has flown balloons for 15 years.

Their $1 million assault on one of aviation's last frontiers was the third such
attempt by a balloon team since Dec. 31.

Chicago millionaire Steve Fossett's fourth around-the-world bid ended Monday on
the edge of the Black Sea. He had lifted off from St. Louis, Mo.

Another balloonist, Kevin Uliassi, left Loves Park, Ill., on New Year's Eve, but
an equipment problem forced him to land a few hours later in Indiana.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: His hope of circling the world cut short, balloonist Dave Melton is
placed in an emergency helicopter Friday in New Mexico after dislocating his hip
and ankle in an emergency parachute jump. Below, one of the balloonists bails
out when trouble hits. // Balloon pilot Dave Melton signals thumbs-up as he
enters the capsule shortly before Friday's launch in Albuquerque, N.M. He
finished the day in a hospital bed, listed in serious condition.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              81 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               February 13, 1998
                              Correction Appended

El Nino could last through April, experts say; El Nino's topsy-turvy

BYLINE: Curt Suplee // William Claiborne

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 762 words


WASHINGTON -- The El Nino weather pattern that has lashed parts of California
and Florida with severe storms and record rainfall while warming normally frigid
northern states will continue at least through April, federal forecasters
predicted Thursday.

El Nino is still going strong and will for two more months,'' Commerce Secretary
William Daley said at a news conference.  Much of the South will see increased
rainfall and cooler temperatures, and much of the rest of the country will
continue to see warmer weather than normal.''

In fact, so far this winter, heating bills for much of the nation are about 10
percent lower than average, officials from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration estimated Thursday. Temperatures in Chicago, Minneapolis and
Buffalo, among other traditionally chilly venues, have been 2 to 4 degrees
higher than usual.

At the same time, areas from California to Florida are suffering from the severe
precipitation that El Ninos typically bring to southern states. President
Clinton on Thursday declared major disaster areas in three Florida counties
after storms and floods caused devastating damage last week.

The West has fared no better. Heavy rainstorms have soaked the Pacific Coast
sporadically from Canada to Mexico since the first of the month, dumping up to
21 inches in some areas and triggering mudslides and floods that forced hundreds
of residents to flee their homes. The worst storm last weekend killed 13 people
in Mexico's northern Baja California and left thousands homeless.

Many hillside homes in San Francisco were evacuated Thursday as the threat of
mudslides increased.

In central California last month, most areas got two to three times their normal
rainfall, said geoscientist John Monteverdi of San Francisco State University.

San Francisco has had 33 inches of rain in, essentially, the last three
months,'' he said, compared with the 21 inches that normally fall over 12
months.

David Howell of the U.S. Geological Survey estimated Thursday that the damages
from earthslides in California alone will reach $1 billion this year.

There seems to be no relief in sight. The El Nino pattern will continue in
California and Florida, chiefly in theform of heavy episodic events,'' said Ants
Leetmaa, director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's
Climate Prediction Center in Washington.

El Ninos, which have occurred every three to five years since the mid-1970s, are
caused by a buildup of hot sea water in the eastern Pacific.

The higher water temperatures send warm, moist air aloft, playing havoc with the
upper-air winds known as the jet stream, which direct global weather patterns.

Thus, the impact reaches around the world: Rainfall in Southeast Asia is 25
percent below normal this season, and rain that would normally be falling on
Indonesia is instead an ocean away over the California coast.

Although the present event began early last year, the major impact may have just
begun.

This is the critical period for the United States -- January, February and
March,'' Leetmaa said.

Many areas of the country, the government reported, are already experiencing
conditions that rank in the top 10 warmest, wettest or driest years of the
century.

Through April, Leetmaa's office predicts, temperatures will remain uncommonly
high in Northern California, the Pacific Northwest, Minnesota, Wisconsin and
Michigan. It will be substantially cooler than normal in parts of Texas and
other Gulf states, and generally cooler throughout the Southeast.

Most states immediately south of the Great Lakes will be drier than normal, as
will much of New England. Abnormally high precipitation will continue in
California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, as well as in southern Florida.

That may be a grim prognosis for California. In the rain-drenched north, where
hillside homes have been swept away and highways blocked by mudslides, more than
22,000 National Guard troops have been deployed. In the south, beachfront homes
have been battered by massive waves that some longtime residents have likened to
the 1983 El Nino storms.

(FROM BOX)

The impact here

El Nino could bring above-average rainfall and lower temperatures to West Texas
in the next few months, but forecasters do not expect the weather phenomenon to
have a major effect on rainfall in the rest of the state, said Cristy Mitchell,
a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in New Braunfels.

Normally, the springtime is our wet period to start off with,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 1998

CORRECTION:

Federal and local meteorologists disputed a meteorologist's statement, reported
on the American-Statesman's front page Friday, that El Nino's effects on Texas
would be confined mostly to West Texas. They said the phenomenon is expected to
affect Texas weather through June in all but the northeastern part of the state.

GRAPHIC: California Na tional Guard Sgt. Greg Mon tes nervously watches the
nearby hills of Rio Nido, where heavy rains brought on by El Nino have caused
mudslides. // Randy Nauert checks out the damage to his friends' beachfront home
in Malibu, Calif., after heavy rains caused it to collapse this week. Storms
have been battering the West Coast, and meteorologists say more storms are
likely over the next two months.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              84 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  July 3, 1998
                              Correction Appended

Jackson: Hispanics, blacks must join forces; The political activist's

BYLINE: David Koenig

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 505 words


DALLAS -- The Rev.  Jesse Jackson told a convention of Hispanic activists
Thursday that blacks and Hispanics should work together instead of seeing each
other as rivals for jobs and political clout.

House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt delivered a sharp, partisan address to
the same audience, saying that the Republican-controlled Congress is the most
anti-Hispanic Congress in the nation's history.

Jackson and Gephardt spoke to the national convention of the League of United
Latin American Citizens, the nation's oldest Hispanic-advocacy organization.
Texas Gov. George W. Bush and House Speaker Newt Gingrich, both Republicans,
addressed the convention Wednesday.

Jackson received a thunderous ovation before, during and after his noon speech,
surpassing even the warm ovation given to Bush. Saying he wanted to avoid a
partisan or ideological debate, Jackson ranged over a variety of subjects, from
inheritance taxes to race relations.

"The great challenge for America is for blacks and browns and whites to see each
other as assets and not threats," Jackson said.  "We must not be forced to
compete for scarcity at a time of surplus."

Jackson was critical of U.S. companies that are eager to do business in China
and other foreign markets while underserving places such as heavily Hispanic El
Paso in Texas and predominantly black Harlem in New York City, he said. He said
the federal government should increase incentives for companies to do business
in minority communities.

Jackson occasionally took shots at the Republican Congress. He accused
Republicans of "a character-deficit disorder" for letting stand a tax break for
people receiving inheritances greater than $17 million while not increasing
money for summer jobs and energy subsidies to low-income people.

Gephardt picked up where Jackson left off in attacking the GOP-controlled
Congress.

"The current leadership of the United States Congress has brought to the floor
and supported more anti-immigration and more anti-Hispanic legislation than any
leadership in the history of the country," Gephardt said.

Gephardt cited GOP proposals to end affirmative action, tighten naturalization
rules, oppose statehood for Puerto Rico, block estimates of uncounted people in
the 2000 Census and declare English the nation's official language.

The latter proposal, he said, would hurt the U.S.'s ability to compete in a
global economy.

Gephardt was introduced by Texas Land Commissioner Garry Mauro, the Democrats'
nominee for governor.

Mauro criticized plans to build a low-level nuclear waste dump in Sierra Blanca,
near the Mexican border, despite opposition in that country. He also said he
supports bilingual education.

Mauro criticized Bush for not expressing unconditional support for bilingual
education. Bush told LULAC members Wednesday that he wants to gauge the
effectiveness of bilingual programs with a statewide test.

"I say bilingual education should continue in Texas, period," Mauro said. "No
if, ands or buts."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1998

CORRECTION:

A story on the front page of Metro & State on Friday incorrectly referred to
U.S. Rep. Richard Gephardt as House majority leader. Gephardt, a Democrat, is
House minority leader.  The error appeared in an Associated Press article about
the League of United Latin American Citizens' convention in Dallas.

GRAPHIC: Jesse Jackson: Addresses convention of Hispanic advocay group in
Dallas.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              87 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 3, 1998

Tornado-warning device up for award

BYLINE: Tim Green

SECTION: Business; Pg. G4

LENGTH: 547 words


An early-warning device for tornadoes in the running for a $100,000 Innovation
in Communication prize can help those in a tornado's path get to relative safety
before the proverbial freight train thunders overhead.

The Seismic Tornado Detector System "feels" a twister after it hits the ground.
The device can detect seismic signals from the storm from between 8 and 17 miles
away. A network version has been designed already, and an in-home version
similar to a smoke alarm will provide a warning time of two to four minutes --
enough for residents to reach the safest part of the house.

The STD is vying with 10 other "world-changing ideas" in the inaugural award
competition, sponsored by global communications giant Saatchi & Saatchi.

The prize will be awarded Oct. 30 at the State of the World Forum in San
Francisco. Animated demonstrations of all the finalists are at
www.saatchi-saatchi.com .

Nextel phone packs in a lot

Nextel is offering a new pocket-sized digital phone that packs a raft of
features into a package only 4.5 inches long, 2.2 inches wide and 1.2 inches
deep.

The i1000, manufactured for Nextel by Motorola, also sports a see-through flip
cover that lets the user access several functions and initiate or receive calls
without opening the cover.

The device offers a speakerphone for hands-free operation, Caller ID, vibration
alert, three-way calling for conference calls, an additional line and nine
selectable ring styles.

The i1000 has a regular retail price of $399, but will sell initially for a
special promotional price of $299. More info is at www.nextel.com .

Web page makes donations

Surfing the Web doesn't usually give you a warm, fuzzy feeling, but make a site
called Eyegive (www.eyegive.com ) your default home page and you can actually
earn some change for your favorite charity or nonprofit organization.

Fill out a brief list of demographic information when you join and the site will
generate ads to meet your interests to greet you each time you log on. Your
first logon each day will earn your group 12 cents; each subsequent hit earns
six cents. There's a maximum of five hits per member a day, but you can earn at
a greater rate if you're able to get friends or coworkers to sign up as well. A
stats page lets you check how much you've given, how much your friends have
given and how much you've earned for your selected organization.

G3 card speeds Power Macs

Sonnet Technologies has a line of G3 processor cards that pep up older Power
Macs. G3 is shorthand for the latest incarnation of the PowerPC chip developed
in Austin by an Apple/IBM/Motorola alliance. It's substantially faster and uses
significantly less power than previous PowerPC chips, but until recently, there
was no upgrade path for first generation PowerPCs.

Sonnet's Crescendo 215-225 MHz model ($500) is surprisingly small, about 1 inch
high and 6 inches long. Installation was a breeze. Even a non-techie can be up
and running in a few minutes.

For first-generation owners who are unwilling or unable to invest in a new
computer, Sonnet's Crescendo cards are the most economical processor upgrade
available. Information is at www.sonnettech.com or (800) 786-6260.

Data is compiled by assistant business editor Tim Green.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              88 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                December 2, 1998

Payday at the pump -- for some; Oil glut pads consumers' wallets,

BYLINE: Maggie Jackson

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1087 words


NEW YORK -- Oil prices are scraping the bottom of the barrel, leaving U.S.
consumers chortling but drillers and refiners glum.

"Those of us in the oil patch have seen much better days," lamented Tim Colwell,
spokesman for Tulsa, Okla.-based Parker Drilling, a small contract driller
that's suffering amid oil's drop to about $11 a barrel -- its lowest level in
the United States in 12 years.

With the United States the world's second-largest oil producer after Saudi
Arabia, companies along the petroleum industry food chain are laying off workers
and slashing capital expenditures.

The slump helped lead to the marriage of oil behemoths Exxon and Mobil, who said
Tuesday they expect $2.8 billion in cost savings by merging.

Yet the steep drop in oil prices is also an early holiday gift for consumers.
The retail price of regular unleaded gasoline fell to 97.4 cents a gallon this
week, its lowest level in eight years. Last year, prices averaged $1.15 a
gallon. Home heating bills, helped by mild temperatures, are also low.

Low oil prices are also keeping U.S. manufacturing costs down, contributing to
cheaper electricity and otherwise dampening any trend toward inflation.

"It does help at the end of the month," Jeff Nelson of Dallas said of the
gasoline prices. Nelson, a salesman, travels frequently in his gas-guzzling
sport-utility vehicle.

Oil prices aren't expected to shoot up any time soon, even if the unseasonably
warm fall turns wintry, analysts said. There are simply too many difficulties
weighing on the market.

Chiefly, Asia's rippling economic problems have cut demand for oil, and the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has been unable to curb the
glut. OPEC, which controls 40 percent of the world's daily production, increased
output last winter, then made a 2.6 million barrel-a-day production cut in June
that did little to boost prices. A meeting last week failed to reach agreement
on further action.

Tuesday's big merger, while creating the world's biggest company, will have
little effect on world oil prices, observers added. "It's Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia that are the key players in the economic game, not Exxon and Mobil," said
David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's DRI consulting group.

In future, the new Exxon Mobil Corp. -- along with other consolidated oil
companies -- may be able to mark up consumer prices in some local areas where
they will exert strong control, said Wyss.

For now, however, U.S. oil producers both big and small are trying to limit the
fallout from the collapsing oil and gas markets. The United States produced 2.3
billion barrels of oil last year, half the oil it used, according to the
American Petroleum Institute.

Parker Drilling has laid off 90 employees out of a global work force of 4,500,
said Colwell. Drilling rigs are being idled in Asia and the Far East, he said.

Burlington Resources, a Houston-based oil and natural gas producer, meanwhile is
canceling the rental of many drilling rigs for a major project off the Gulf of
Mexico. Overall, the company will cut capital expenditures 75 percent, or up to
$150 million, on that project alone.

"If oil prices stay down next year, not only our company but other companies
will slow down projects, if not cut them out completely," said spokesman John
Carrara.

Still, historically oil-dependent states such as Alaska and Texas aren't likely
to be hit as hard as they were by the glut of 1986.

Retailers and service industries are booming in Alaska; The Gap opened a first
store in the state this fall. In Texas, mining jobs -- mostly comprised of oil
and gas drilling -- dropped from 5 percent of the state's jobs in 1982 to 1.9
percent today, according to DRI of Lexington, Mass.

"The economy is expanding. Things here are very positive," said Rick Douglas,
president of the Dallas Chamber of Commerce.

But he added, "Oil is still a very important industry here. There are an awful
lot of companies that do business with the major oil producers."

(FROM BOX)

BIGGEST MERGERS INVOLVING U.S. COMPANIES

Top corporate mergers involving U.S. companies. The values of pending deals are
based on Tuesday's closing stock prices:

1. Exxon Corp. agrees to buy Mobil Corp. for $73.7 billion, announced Tuesday.
Pending.

2. SBC Communications Inc. announces plan to buy Ameritech Corp. for $70.3
billion in stock on May 11. Pending.

3. Bell Atlantic Corp. agrees to merge with GTE Corp. in deal valued at $65.1
billion, announced July 28. Pending.

4. British Petroleum PLC agrees to buy Amoco Corp. for $57.1 billion in stock,
announced Aug. 11. Pending.

5. NationsBank Corp. and BankAmerica Corp. merge in a deal valued at $41.5
billion, completed Sept. 30.

6. WorldCom Inc. acquires MCI Communications Inc. for $37 billion, completed
Sept. 14.

7. Travelers Group and Citicorp merge in a deal valued at $36.9 billion,
completed Oct. 7.

8. Daimler-Benz merges with Chrysler Corp. in a stock swap valued at $32.8
billion, completed Nov. 12 .

9. AT&T Corp. agrees to buy Tele-Communications Inc. for $32.7 billion in stock,
announced June 24. Pending.

10. Wells Fargo & Co. and Norwest Corp. merge in a deal valued at $31.7 billion,
completed Nov. 2.

(FROM BOX)

The history of Standard Oil Co.

Exxon Corp.'s proposed purchase of Mobil Corp. would reunite two cornerstones of
John D. Rockefeller's oil titan, the Standard Oil Co. Here is a company history:

* Standard Oil was incorporated in Ohio in 1870.

* In a decade, it gained control of about 90 percent of the nation's oil
refining operations.

* In 1882, management of the various oil companies was unified as the Standard
Oil Trust, creating the biggest company in the oil industry.

* In 1892, the Ohio Supreme Court dissolved the Standard Oil Trust, ordering its
oil companies to once again operate separately.

* In 1899, Standard Oil reorganized as a single entity, turning its New Jersey
subsidiary into a holding company.

* In 1911, the U.S. Supreme Court found the company in violation of the Sherman
Antitrust Act. The ruling split Standard Oil into 34 independent companies.

* In August, Standard Oil spinoff Amoco Corp. was taken over by British
Petroleum, which years earlier absorbed what once was the Ohio segment of
Standard Oil.

* Tuesday's deal would combine Exxon, formerly Standard Oil of New Jersey, and
Mobil, which was once Standard Oil of New York. The new Exxon Mobil Corp. would
be the world's biggest

energy company.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Milton Johnson fills up at the Interstate 35 and Seventh Street Mobil
station in Austin on Tuesday. The average price of regular unleaded fell to 97.4
cents a gallon this week, an eight-year low.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              95 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               November 12, 1998

Argentina offers to lead nationsin reducing greenhouse gases

SECTION: News; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 265 words


BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -- Argentina offered Wednesday to be the first
developing nation to voluntarily cut back on greenhouse gas emissions, seeking a
breakthrough in talks to reduce global warming.

At a landmark conference in Kyoto, Japan, last year, more than three dozen
industrialized nations agreed to cut their pollution output by 5 percent below
1990 levels by 2012. Poorer nations were merely asked to do what they can to
curtail emissions.

The United States has yet to sign the Kyoto Protocol.

Law would free Hitler, Pinochet lawyers argue

LONDON -- Lawyers for Gen. Augusto Pinochet insisted Wednesday that immunity
laws are so broad that even Adolf Hitler could not be tried in Britain.

Lawyers wrapped up efforts to free the former Chilean dictator, telling a
five-judge tribunal in the House of Lords that Britain's 1978 State of Immunity
Act safeguards any foreign head of state from arrest.

England's High Court cited the act last month in quashing Pinochet's arrest.

Pinochet, facing charges of genocide, remains under police guard in a London
hospital after undergoing back surgery.

Malaysian dissident's conspiracy claim halted

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- A judge refused to allow a defense lawyer to argue
Wednesday that Malaysia's ousted deputy prime minister is the victim of a
political conspiracy.

Anwar Ibrahim maintains that sex and corruption charges against him stem from
his rivalry with Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, and has pleaded innocent.

Critics say the case illustrates human rights abuses in the Southeast Asian
nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Buddhists clash: A Buddhist monk uses karate Wednesday on a bodyguard
of top monks at Chogye Temple in Seoul, South Korea. Rivalries flared on the eve
of voting for the head of the nation's largest Buddhist group.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              98 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 29, 1998

For Cubans, it's an opportune time for restorative justice'

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 677 words


There was no scolding of Fidel Castro at the airport in Havana, no repetition of
what occurred in the 1980s in Nicaragua as the pope angrily and publicly scolded
Ernesto Cardenal, a liberation theologist, for participating in the Sandinista
revolution. Yes, the pope, the exterminating angel of communism,'' was forceful
in Cuba, speaking of freedom and the need to liberate the human spirit. He
rejected godless communism and unbridled capitalism, yet his main message was
about love, hope and reconciliation.

To begin that reconciliation, the establishment of an independent truth
commission is perhaps in order.

In Cuba, a new spirit pervades the island. For those who seek a change from
within, there appears to be hope and it can be seen in people's faces. In Miami,
the capital of the Cuban exiles, there is expectedly a mixed reaction to the
pope's visit. Many expected the pope to call for Castro's ouster or for a
massive civil rebellion to occur. But for those who simply wanted the pope to
bless their godless country, deliverance.

Perhaps those who constantly call for the violent overthrow of Castro were most
disappointed. All along, they had said the pope's visit would be used as
propaganda by Castro. And in a sense, they were right. Despite the criticisms of
the pope, Castro's stature has grown. His calculated gamble has apparently paid
off, and Castro has seemingly been humanized in the process. Because Castro was
not shamed by the pope, it may result in freedom for hundreds of political
prisoners and perhaps lead to a further opening for the church and a space for
the political opposition.

The Holy See has called for the end of the U.S. embargo against Cuba, yet all we
hear from the White House and Congress is that they are on a higher moral plane
than the pope: The embargo will end when Castro goes or changes, not when the
pope tells them. Despite this, even Congress is thawing to the idea of sending
of food and medicines to the island's needy. Most observers believe that this is
possible because the staunch anti-communist Jorge Mas Canosa of Miami is now
dead. Perhaps the United States is waiting for the post-Castro era to completely
drop the embargo, otherwise the world might pass judgment that it was wrong all
along.

The pope has created a third option and neither political extreme appears to be
comfortable with the idea of reconciliation. Ideology makes it difficult to
humanize the debate. And ideology, of whatever variety, is precisely what the
pope has said is antithetical to freeing the human spirit.

If reconciliation does take place, perhaps it needs to begin with the truth. But
rather than wait for the post-Castro era -- in the spirit of the pope's visit --
the search for the truth should commence right now and it should examine U.S.
efforts to destabilize the island and the Cuban government's human rights
abuses.

For reconciliation to work, the commission could be patterned after South
Africa's, which is more concerned with healing a nation than incarcerating the
violators. One of its primary goals is to allow the truth to be told by the
survivors -- and perpetrators -- of the apartheid horrors, so that South
Africans can begin to heal from the trauma of political violence. Archbishop
Desmond Tutu calls this restorative justice,'' as opposed to retributive
justice.'' It's a difficult concept to grasp -- or accept -- particularly in a
country that has suffered so much. But it is a spiritual and psychological
approach to a legal/political problem and addresses the historical trauma of an
oppressed people. While it may seem impossible to replicate this effort in Cuba,
the climate there is opportune.

The pope challenged all Cubans -- on the island and in the United States -- to
help build a new society. This may represent a small window of opportunity to
bring about peaceful change. The alternative would be a Central America-style
conflagration.

Gonzales and Rodriguez write on Latino issues and live in New Mexico.
Distributed by Universal Press Syndicate.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pope John Paul II greets the crowd Sunday morning in Havana.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              100 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               February 14, 1998

On Target; Bow hunter's archery shop finds its mark in Austin area

BYLINE: Kay Rosenwasser

SECTION: Weekly Business Review; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words


Bill Bleakney says the decision for he and his wife, Susan, to become retailers
of archery equipment was born of frustration.

When I started bow hunting in 1978, I got tired of not being able to find the
equipment I needed. So eventually, I just started my own archery shop,''
Bleakney says.

Susan Bleakney says their original plan has changed dramatically over the past
eight years.

We started with a store in McAllen in 1990 with the intention of keeping our day
jobs, she says, but pretty soon I quit my job as an office manager to work in
the business full time."

She says not long after that Bill Bleakney left his job as a carpet industry
sales manager to join her. Three years later, they learned that the owner of an
Austin archery store was retiring and had put his shop up for sale.  We thought
we could keep both stores,'' says Susan Bleakney, but the distance was too
great."

In 1993, the Bleakneys sold their McAllen store and moved to Austin to run
Archery Country, a full service shop that has an indoor practice range that can
accommodate up to 25 archers at a time.

Bill Bleakney says it was an easy decision to sell the McAllen store and move to
Central Texas.

There are just more business opportunities in Austin,'' he says.  The business
climate here is tremendous, and it's a real pretty place to live."

The Bleakneys have no regrets. Archery Country has been profitable every year
they've owned and operated the store. And although the business had an
established clientele, Bill Bleakney says the customer base has increased more
than 50 percent in the five years they've owned it. Bill and Susan Bleakney say
they financed the store through the sale of their McAllen store and through
Keogh and individual retirement accounts.

In 1998, the Bleakneys expect Archery Country to realize sales increases of more
than 15 percent.

The Bleakneys declined to reveal the company's gross revenues but said 1997
sales were in the mid-six figures, with archery equipment accounting for more
than 90 percent of sales. The company also makes money from lessons, range fees,
accessories and apparel sales.

However, Susan Bleakney says Archery Country soon will eliminate clothing from
its product mix: It costs us much more than it's worth to us because of the
depth of the inventory you need to do it right."

Sophisticated technology

Archery Country, which has bows that sell for as much as $1,000, gets most of
its revenue from equipment sales.

Archery has become more sophisticated with new technology. Equipment comes in a
broad selection of styles. Fiberglass compound bows with pulleys allow even
beginners to achieve exceptional accuracy and have made traditional recurve or
long bows seem antiquated. Susan Bleakney says the cost to get started, whether
for recreation or sport, can be as low as $69.

Bill Bleakney says it is an ever-evolving industry.

It changes every day,'' he says.  It's hard to keep up with the technology."

The store offers lessons on its indoor practice range for adults to children as
young as 5 . Susan Bleakney, who is certified by the National Archery
Association, says rates start at $10 for two hours of group instruction for
children to $25 an hour for individual instruction for adults.

Archery Country also offers a Junior Olympic training development program
structured according to national guidelines for Olympic development. Currently
there are 138 children enrolled in the program at Archery Country.

A specialized sport

There is very little direct competition for Archery Country in Austin, according
to Bill Bleakney.

Archery is so specialized that there aren't that many full-time dealers,'' he
says. While many sporting goods stores carry some archery equipment, Bleakney
says they are not prepared to assist serious archers.

Erick Dufner, a customer, became interested in bow hunting several months ago.
He first bought a crossbow at a local sporting goods store and then tried out
Archery Country's practice range.

I took the first crossbow back and bought one at Archery Country,'' he says.
The sales person at the sporting goods store just told me to aim it and shoot
it. Here, they were able to explain to me how to shoot a crossbow and showed me
all of the different kinds of equipment. I ended up spending more but I got a
better bow."

Archery Country has three full-time employees, including: the Bleakneys and a
store manager. Instructors work on a contract basis. Bill Bleakney says on an
average week it has 200 customers.

The Bleakneys also believe that becoming a part of the community has been
instrumental in their success. Archery Country is a gathering place for hunters
and sportsmen to hang out, tell lies and swap stories,'' says Bill Bleakney. An
Eagle Scout himself, he says his store also helps Boy Scouts to earn their
archery merit badges.

Although they found operating two stores earlier to be difficult, the Bleakneys
say they may open another Archery Country.

We haven't ruled out a second location in another city,'' says Bill Bleakney,
but it wouldn't be as far away as McAllen."

Archery Country

Location:

8910 F-5 Research Blvd.

Owners:

Bill and Susan Bleakney

What they do: Retail sales of archery equipment and accessories, archery lessons
for children and adults and indoor practice range rental.

Susan Bleakney on Archery Country's youth programs: If kids are into archery,
it's because they've already tried everything else, like football and soccer.
There's a lot more self-fulfillment in archery. It offers instant gratification.
It's not like a team sport where you really have to stand out to be recognized."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Bleakney, right, a carpet industry sales manager before he and his
wife bought Archery Country, discusses a compound bow with customer Bill Witt.
// Susan Bleakney, co-owner of Archery Country, was an office manager in Laredo
before she and her husband, Bill, started the archery store there. They sold
their Laredo operation and started their store in Austin in 1993. // Archery
Country offers classes for children and adults. Alex Noether, 12, sights a
target as he flexes a bow in a class.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              104 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 7, 1998

Telecommunications mergers will probably affect you soon

BYLINE: Michael E. Kanell

SECTION: Special; Pg. E18

LENGTH: 1251 words


There's plenty of news, but customers might be forgiven an occasional yawn.

In the past year, the telecommunications industry has been roiled by reports of
multibillion-dollar mergers, stunning acquisitions, high-profile partnerships
and trailblazing announcements about new technologies for communications and
entertainment.

But behind all the action, is there really something going on?

There sure has been action: The Telecommunications Act of 1996 set off a series
of deals, which accelerated with last year's $37 billion WorldCom purchase of
MCI.

This year, the flurry became a spree, with Bell Atlantic's $55 billion proposal
to buy GTE and AT&T's $44 billion bid for Tele-Communications, climaxing --
perhaps -- with the $62 billion SBC Communications Inc. plan to buy Ameritech.
SBC, based in San Antonio, already has bought Pacific Telesis and Southern New
England Telephone.

Each time, officials involved swore that their deal would bring more
competition, better service and lower prices to consumers and business
customers.

Yet the odds are pretty good that you get your local phone service from the same
company you did before the Telecommunications Act. You may have switched your
long-distance carrier, but you almost certainly cannot get long-distance service
from your local carrier. And you may have picked up a wireless phone or Internet
service, perhaps on the same bill as your local phone service.

Meanwhile, the stock market has given these megamergers a very mixed response.
Some analysts argue that the deals often depend partly on executive ego and
partly on the urge to do what other giants are doing.

So why the hoopla? Does it change your world to know that there are fewer
regional Bells, one less long-distance company, while phone and cable carriers
get hitched?

The answer seems to be: Maybe not yet, but it will.

The smoke and pomp of big announcements claim immediate attention and clear to
reveal little change. The future, as often happens, will not arrive on command.
But it would be a mistake to assume that the series of mergers is not going to
affect the choices you will have and the prices you will pay for
telecommunication services.

Consider: Mississippi-based WorldCom's purchase of Washington-based MCI not only
combines the second- and fourth-largest long-distance carriers, both of which
were providing local phone service to big businesses, but the new company
emerges with a large chunk of the "backbone" equipment that carries Internet
traffic.

The company is expected to announce big changes aimed at exploiting its combined
strength.

The purchase of TCI provides an end-around for AT&T, which needs to offer local
service but has felt boxed in by the conditions imposed by regulators for it to
connect with regional phone companies. Through the merger, AT&T will use TCI as
a second wire in millions of homes, avoiding the "access fees" charged by local
phone companies.

SBC says the purchase of Ameritech will provide the capital needed to initiate
high-speed services. And while some skeptics scoffed, SBC, one of the original
so-called Baby Bells, has also vowed to move into various cities with a
combination of services, competing with local providers.

Other mergers pretend to parallel results: putting together a range of services
in ever-more-muscular companies.

For customers, it is increasingly a buyer's market, and more providers mean more
features and more technology at lower prices

As for the big players, there will be one large war, and there will be many
smaller fights.

The large war is the fight to be the One-Stop Shop of Choice -- the one that can
hand customers a bundle of virtually every conceivable service -- Internet
access, paging, cable television, local service, you name it.

Some consumers are bound to like the idea, although many others will be willing
to trade the convenience of having everything from one vendor in exchange for
the best prices from different providers.

The consolidation that began in 1996 will likely continue, and the logical end
is a winnowed playing field with just a handful of "supercarriers" -- perhaps
four. Business customers especially are increasingly looking for the greatest
possible range of services offered and territory covered.

Who will the supercarriers be? Best positioned for the role now are MCI
WorldCom, AT&T, Bell Atlantic and SBC.

But the supercarriers won't satisfy every customer. And within their big battle,
and outside it as well, there will be many smaller skirmishes. For example:

* Copper vs. fiber. Key to delivering service is the proverbial "last mile," the
wire that connects to the customer's home or business. Phone companies have
billions of dollars already invested in the copper wires that tie together the
nation's phone network. And they have a clever technology called ADSL -- for
asymmetric digital subscriber lines -- that can use copper wires to transmit
data far faster than the quickest analog modem. In the meantime, cable companies
are spending billions to rebuild their own lines using fiber optics. Then, cable
modems can give the customer high-speed access to the Internet; Time Warner
plans to do that in Austin soon with its Road Runner service. And -- here's that
one-stop shop idea again -- both technologies can carry phone calls
simultaneously with Net access.

* Local vs. local. Despite the promise of the Telecom Act's supporters, local
service remains a near-monopoly controlled by the regional phone companies --
the Bells and GTE. But little by little, that stranglehold is being loosened.
Jostling for business customers are behemoths like AT&T and MCI WorldCom and
feisty newer companies like IGC Communications and Nextlink.

* Long-distance. It's been the same battle for years -- minus one. A few big
companies chop away at AT&T's dominance while hundreds of tiny resellers and
dial-around companies nibble at the edges of the market. What's missing are the
Bells -- forbidden from offering long-distance in their own regions until they
convince regulators their own local markets are open. In the current regulatory
climate, full-scale entry is probably a year away.

* Transmitting the voice. The nation's phone system was designed as an analog
system that uses circuit switching to transmit voice. Each call uses a line that
is "dedicated," carrying the signals for that call alone. But conversation can
be digitized and sent over the Internet, where packets of data are shipped by
circuitous routes to their destination and where each line is shared by many
users. Various companies hope to use the Net to take phone business away from
the local and long-distance phone companies.

* The air war. Wireless phones and pagers have been one of the great growth
sectors in telecommunications. With more Americans in jobs that require travel
and many of us increasingly stuck in cars -- whether we want to be or not --
wireless phones have offered a counterbalance that lets us keep in touch with
the world outside the gridlock.

* TV or not TV? As cable companies prepare to compete with phone companies by
offering phone service, they sometimes find their own core business under
attack. But in Austin, Time Warner Cable seems safe, at least for the time
being. SBC, which owns Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., tested video services in
the last few years but eventually gave up on them.

American-Statesman staff writer Bruce Hight contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE B. TEAGLE/ COX NEWS SERVICE

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              107 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 11, 1998

Austin school chief defends staff communication; A.C. Gonzalez says

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 813 words


Austin's Interim Superintendent A.C. Gonzalez is surprised that anyone,
especially school trustees, would believe he or his staff has been slack in
delivering bad news.

"There's been more truth in the last four or five months than they've seen in
the last three years," Gonzalez said Thursday, the day after a lengthy meeting
with trustees over the district's school construction project that is
experiencing escalating costs and delays.

To some trustees, Gonzalez has been too slow to give them timely, accurate
reports on the $420 million construction project -- $51 million more than voters
author- ized in 1996. To others, he has done well considering the avalanche of
issues on the school's agenda.

In his eight months after replacing Superintendent Jim Fox, Gonzalez has faced a
bloated budget, the lack of long-range financial forecasts, an investigation
into how the district reports its test scores to the state, the issue of school
boundaries, and whether to end 27 years of busing, plus a construction project
that touches every campus.

"We're meeting almost every day, it seems like," Gonzalez said. Indeed, trustees
have met every weekday except one since the Thanksgiving weekend, mostly on the
issue of school boundaries. Today they have a full-day retreat on setting goals
and are scheduled to meet three days next week.

They also have been given boxes of information on construction and technology --
sometimes in numbing detail.

Yet there remains a lack of com- munication between the school staff and a board
of elected vol- unteers, trustees say.

In the fall of 1997, the trustees voted to increase the construction budget from
the original $369 million to $395 million and pay for it with interest earnings.
They hoped they had seen the last of construction overruns and oversights.
Almost 15 months later, the cost has escalated again and some projects are being
delayed. Gonzalez now says that promises to put computers in every classroom
over two years was an unrealistic schedule imposed by his predecessor. That $25
million contract with IBM must be renegotiated.

However, until Wednesday night's meeting on the technology glitches, trustee Ted
Whatley said of the board: "I don't think we ever understood the big picture."

Whatley blames Fox, whose contract was bought out in May, for creating a climate
of intimidation that kept bad news from the board.

However, he also wishes the board had known about its construction and
technology problems immediately after Fox left: "I want to know all the horrors
upfront."

Doyle Valdez, who was elected to the board in May, defends Gonzalez as
forthright. He said Wednesday night's meeting gave new board members a
historical view of the first two years of the four-year construction project.

"You learn from history," Valdez said. "We can't change the past, but we can
make the future better. I want to move forward."

Kathy Rider, the school board president, said the trustees suspected there were
problems that they had not been told about. "In hindsight, I wish the staff
could have felt comfortable coming to us," she said. "I understand, however, if
your job is on the line, especially if you have a family, you can't risk your
job."

In a closed-door meeting last April, as Fox was preparing to leave, Rider said
the trustees asked Gonzalez, who had been in charge of construction, and Deputy
Superintendent Kay Psencik, who was overseeing technology, to tell them of any
problems.

"Would I have preferred to have heard it in April or after the (May) school
board election?" Rider asked. "Yes."

Psencik said she thought the staff was communicating with the board. "We made
several presentations on technology to them," she said. Plus, she said some
problems were only discovered in recent weeks.

Rider said she agrees that Gonzalez and the staff inherited a series of problems
that distracted them almost immediately after Fox left. And she said that Fox
had kept BLGY/Sverdrup, the district's $25 million construction managers, from
talking to the trustees for the past two years.

"Whoever is the captain of the ship sets the tone," Rider said of Fox.

Fox, who still lives in Austin, has said little about the allegations that he
intimidated his staff and construction managers into silence. He said that after
voters approved the bonds in 1996, he left the construction project to Gonzalez.
Any problems, Fox said, fall on Gonzalez's watch.

Fox could not be reached Thurs- day for further comment.

In September, BLGY/Sverdrup had its first face-to-face meeting with the
trustees, who have scheduled monthly updates with the international construction
management company.

Still, it has taken three months for some trustees to feel they finally are
being brought up-to-date.

"I think we're finally beginning to get the clear picture," Rider said.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A.C. Gonzalez: 'We're meetin almost every day, it seems like,' interim
Austin superintendent says of his staff and school board.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              115 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 June 18, 1998

Small businesses keeping health care; With job market tight, many

BYLINE: Eileen Glanton

SECTION: Business; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 580 words


NEW YORK -- As the cost of managed health care rises, small business owners are
preparing to pay a little more for their employees' benefits if it helps them
hold on to experienced workers.

After years of moderate price increases, several managed care companies have
announced larger increases for 1999. Meanwhile, Congress is working on consumer
protection legislation that could give people more flexibility in their health
plans, but at a higher cost.

Yet very few businesses -- 1 percent to 3 percent of the survey respondents --
said they would eliminate coverage if costs increased. Eight percent to 9
percent of the 800 executives who responded to the survey by the Kaiser-Harvard
Program on the Public and Health/Social Policy said they would pass the entire
cost on to employees.

About 35 percent said they would pass on some costs to employees, and 45 percent
to 50 percent said they would absorb the entire cost. The responses varied
according to the expected premium increase.

"There's a tighter job market," said Catherine Hoffman, associate director of
the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured. "They must offer benefits
in order to compete."

Charles Lauster, president of a Manhattan architecture firm, offers health
insurance to his 10 full-time employees, and even as costs increased 12 percent
last year he found himself unwilling to shop around for a cheaper plan or to ask
his staff to pay higher premiums.

Lauster said his firm can't negotiate for lower rates or hire consultants to
handle benefits, as big companies often do. "It's more complex and more
expensive for us to provide coverage," he said. "But in a climate like we have
today, losing an employee hurts our business," he said.

Almost three-fourths of the respondents offer health insurance to at least some
of their employees, and 55 percent offer it to all full-time employees. The
survey defined a small business as a company with 100 or fewer full-time
workers.

Not surprisingly, the study found that the companies that paid the best wages --
white-collar firms such as brokerages and insurance companies -- were more
likely to offer health insurance than blue-collar businesses such as
construction companies and factories.

Also, the smallest businesses, those with one to three full-time employees, were
least likely to offer coverage.

Lawmakers this spring began work on a wide range of legislation that could
improve patients' access to medical specialists, remove coverage limits on
emergency-room visits or make it easier for patients to sue managed care
companies. At the minimum, Congress could enact a law to make health providers
offer more information about how they operate.

Health care analysts expect even a minor change to add $1 to $5 to a company's
monthly share of an individual premium. Sweeping changes could add $15 to $20
per month, the Kaiser researchers said.

Larry Levitt, a project director at the Kaiser Family Foundation, said that
instead of eliminating coverage, companies may lengthen the waiting period for
new employees to join health plans or cut coverage for part-timers.

The survey, designed by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard University,
involved 800 heads of businesses with fewer than 100 full-time employees. The
margin of error is plus or minus 5 percentage points.

Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit organization, is not related to the health
maintenance organization Kaiser Permanente.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              116 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 June 21, 1998

Student need shunted aside in college aid

BYLINE: Ethan Bronner

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1212 words


Colleges are spending more on scholarships to attract top students and, as a
result, have less to spend on many needy applicants, admissions officers and
administrators say.

The once orderly world of financial aid, where colleges avoided bidding against
each other and standards of need were well-established, is unraveling, replaced
by a more competitive environment.

Several factors are at work. First, the best colleges have taken a more
subjective approach to need, adjusting scholarships to match or exceed offers
that students get elsewhere. At the same time, other colleges are taking need
into account where they previously had not, rejecting some lower-income
applicants in favor of better-off ones. And more colleges are dangling
scholarships to top students whether or not their families need the money.

As a result, many officials consider this the most competitive financial aid
season ever, particularly among private colleges.

Many administrators say that while the most sought-after applicants are
prospering, many good but not spectacular students with a need for financial
help, including those in minority groups, are less able to get it. The role that
colleges had taken on in the 1960s to make the best education available to all
sectors in society is being compromised.

"We are experiencing a heaping on of greater privilege to wealthy and
middle-class kids," said Morton Schapiro, an economics professor and dean at the
University of Southern California and co-author of "The Student Aid Game."

"Will institutions meet the needs of lower-income students?" Schapiro asked.
"These days, almost the entire enrollment rate increase is from the middle
income and above. The gap between whites and non-whites going to college is
greater than it was in 1980. The poor are increasingly restricted to community
colleges, even being squeezed out of four-year public institutions."

'Let's make a deal'

Negotiating over top students may not seem surprising, but financial aid at top
universities had for decades been based purely on need as determined by a fairly
rigorous formula of income and assets. Using aid to bid for students was
unacceptable.

In the past, aid officers even compared offers to specific students so that no
institution could offer more for more desirable students. While that practice
was ended by the Justice Department in 1991 on the ground that it violated
antitrust laws, the determination of need is still theoretically based on
formulas. But the truth is more complex.

"What we've got today, unfortunately, is 'Let's make a deal,' and I'm not sure
how healthy it is," said Robert Kinnally, dean of admission and financial aid at
Stanford University. "We really have to get a handle on this growing bidding
phenomenon."

A letter from Laredo

The offers received by Joyce Keck of Laredo provide an example. When she
received replies to her college applications this spring, all were positive.

The class valedictorian and a Red Cross board member, Keck had SAT scores of
1510 and stellar recommendations. But her parents, a nurse and a
romance-languages professor, have middle-class incomes and savings, and paying
more than $30,000 a year for a top university did not look easy. Harvard College
in Massachusetts made an offer of aid, but an offer made by Rice University in
Houston was more generous.

So Joyce's mother, Patricia Cigarroa Keck, sent a fax to Harvard explaining the
quandary. Four days later, she received a reply with a new aid offer --
increasing her scholarship and decreasing her loan -- worth thousands of dollars
more per year. The deal was sealed.

"Harvard made it a doable stretch," Patricia Keck said.

The enrollment gap

Schapiro's data show that the percentage of students entering college from the
bottom fourth of income earners has stayed stagnant at 26 percent since 1978 but
has increased by 11 percent for middle-income earners, to 50 percent, and by 9
percent for the top fourth of income earners, to 75 percent.

The reasons for the disparity are numerous and not limited to financial aid
practices. Most colleges have continued to increase their aid budgets for
low-income and minority groups. But as college costs have soared and federal aid
to colleges has fallen, the ability to meet historic aid commitments has
declined.

This has not been a problem for the most selective institutions with the largest
endowments. They have fueled the new aid climate with increased willingness to
barter for the top students, regardless of income.

Michael McPherson, president of Macalester College in St. Paul and co-author
with Schapiro of "The Student Aid Game," says aid is thought of today in
entirely different terms from a generation ago.

"If you go back 20 years, most folks thought of the student aid budget as a
charity operation run on the side," McPherson said. "Now it is a real strategic
component of revenue raising and enrollment management. There are different
prices for different customers, like how airlines price their seats."

Changing formulas

Part of what led to such intense competition this season were changes announced
first by Princeton, then by Yale, Stanford and the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. All said middle-class families were squeezed by out-of-date formulas
for financial aid and adjusted their formulas for determining aid, like how much
of one's home equity would count as an asset.

The new formulas created a challenge for Harvard, which made clear that it was
committed to making "competitively supportive offers of need-based financial
aid."

And in an explicit offer of negotiation, Harvard added, "We expect that some of
our admitted students will have particularly attractive offers from the
institutions with new aid programs, and those students should not assume that we
will not respond."

Patricia Keck said it was Harvard's letter that prompted her appeal.

Harvard's financial aid office was open 12 hours a day six days a week in April
for families to discuss their packages.

"We spoke to an unprecedented number of parents this year," said William
Fitzsimmons, Harvard's dean of admissions. "Competition had been getting
tougher, and this year's announcement by other institutions did nothing to abate
the competitiveness. But I think from the student's point of view, it is a good
thing. This is America. This is a market."

'Need-blind' no more

Perhaps, say educators worried by the trend, the changes at Harvard and
Princeton mean middle-income families whose children are the cream of their
schools can negotiate better aid packages at elite colleges. But the tactics are
having a cascading effect.

Students from lower-income groups, including members of minorities, who are not
at the top of their classes, may be rejected because of their inability to
afford the tuition, while students of similar qualification but higher income
will get in.

"When we look at the bottom 10 to 20 percent of the students," said Michael
Fraher, financial aid director at Vassar College, "we have to ask ourselves
whether we really want to commit $18,000 of Vassar scholarship money to a
certain student when we can attract two other, perhaps better students, by
granting each half that amount."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              118 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  July 9, 1998

With end of his term in sight, Clinton's vision narrows

BYLINE: David Shribman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 793 words


Back from China and back to work in the capital, Bill Clinton now enters one of
the most critical passages of his two tumultuous terms.

The investigation of Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr grinds on. The
defiance of the Republican Congress grows ever stronger. The midterm elections
grow ever closer. His agenda grows ever smaller. His tenure at the center of our
national life grows ever briefer.

The president gave a political pep talk the other day, urging Congress to
approve the Clinton domestic program before it adjourns for fall campaigning.
But in truth, the administration's domestic menu makes for a sparse meal: Help
poor, elderly and disabled Americans to pay their Medicare premiums. Finish the
commitment to put 100,000 new police officers on the street. Start a drive to
assure food safety. Expand federal subsidies for child care, an initiative that
depended on money from the tobacco bill that died in the Senate last month.

Despite a triumphal tour of China, the last few years of President Clinton's
administration are turning out to be no victory lap. In fact, this most
unconventional of presidents, wrapping up the most unconventional of
presidencies, seems to be slipping into a decidedly conventional conclusion of
his time in office.

In the end -- indeed, in the very way he ends his presidency -- Clinton has
fallen into a traditional presidential pattern. Like Dwight Eisenhower, Richard
Nixon and Ronald Reagan, the only other two-term presidents since World War II,
he has modest hopes -- and modest prospects of success.

"An examination of the records of those presidents who have served eight years
will disclose that in almost every instance the latter parts of their terms have
shown very little in the way of constructive accomplishment," said Calvin
Coolidge, who, famously, did not choose to run for a second full term in 1928.
"They have often been clouded with grave disappointment."

No second term is easy. Eisenhower had to suffer through the humiliation of
Sputnik, the Soviets' satellite that opened the space age, and the shooting down
of a U-2 surveillance plane, which prompted Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev to
break off a summit meeting. Nixon faced economic problems and finally left
office in disgrace after Watergate. Reagan won a major overhaul of the tax
system, but his final years were consumed with the investigation of the
Iran-contra affair.

Clinton enters the twilight of his presidency substantially weakened to begin
with. Though his public-approval ratings remain high, the Starr investigation
has siphoned much of the juice from the Clinton presidency. And like Eisenhower,
Nixon and Reagan, he confronts a Congress controlled by the opposition party.

The result is a diminished presidency. "That's the case when a president has
very little in the way to work with," says George C. Edwards, director of the
Center for Presidential Studies at Texas A&M University. "He doesn't have votes
in Congress, the most important political capital. He doesn't have any money, so
he can't take many initiatives. And he seems to have made a decision to forget
about big change and take on small change."

The White House is in the bittersweet position of arguing that there isn't much
to do because ... there isn't much to do. Things are going well: The stock
market defies expectations and reason. Real wages rose last year for the first
time since 1973.

Last year the president circulated an internal document, listing 14 "pillars,"
or goals, for a second term. Key White House aides were allowed to read the
memorandum but not to keep it. Some of the items were so small that some top
officials don't even remember what was on the list.

In any case, there's very little room in the current political climate for the
sort of domestic spending programs that Democratic presidents have long favored.
If Clinton's opportunity for leaving a mark is diminished, it is in part because
he helped diminish the potential for federal initiatives.

"A few years ago politicians got elected by promising they'll vote against all
tax increases, but now people are saying they not only won't raise your taxes,
they'll cut them," says Charles S. Bullock, a University of Georgia political
scientist. "If this view is a seller in 1998 and 2000, it means the government
will continue to operate with the constraints on."

That could be Clinton's greatest legacy. But it isn't the one he set out to
build.  Clinton has more in common with Eisenhower, Nixon and Reagan than he
ever would have imagined -- or aspired to. He's the apostle of a smaller
government, and the power is passing from his hand with each passing day.

David Shribman is Washington bureau chief of the Boston Globe.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Shribman

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              122 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                August 29, 1998

Some less common places to put money

BYLINE: Julius Westheimer

SECTION: Weekly Business Review; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 444 words


Where do you park money if this stock market frightens you? Most people know the
traditional havens -- bank accounts, CDs, short-term Treasury bills, etc. -- but
many people may not realize there are less-well-known places for your "safe"
money:

STASH CASH: "Park cash in money market mutual funds, not bank accounts," advises
Peter Crane, a mutual fund writer. "These funds offer liquidity, more income
than banks and stability of principal -- and they're the best places for money
set aside for emergencies or held for long-term investments when the market
steadies."

HAVEN: Another safe investment is in zero-coupon Treasury bonds. These are
government IOUs that sell at a deep discount from maturity value. Although zeros
provide no current income, your interest remains with your bond. If you buy
zeros that mature when you need your money, you're guaranteed to get it all
back, even if interest rates skyrocket.

WHY PAY TAXES? If you are in a high bracket, tax-free municipal bonds and funds
make sense. Individual tax-frees have special advantages over funds: Your
interest rate cannot change, you know your maturity date, and you're guaranteed
the full return of your money at maturity. Although bond funds are occasionally
suitable, with bond funds you have no such guarantees.

BIG IS BEST: "While the Dow Jones average has fallen 8.6 percent from its July
17 high, it was still up 8 percent for the year, through yesterday. And many
widely held large stocks such as Merck & Co. Inc., General Electric Co. and IBM
Corp. are up that much or more. That's a powerful indication that big investors
still believe in America's largest companies' earning power." (Fortune, Sept. 7)

TOO LATE? If you want to buy "blue chip" stocks now, proceed cautiously. "It's
hard to imagine prices of growth companies -- General Electric Co., Gillette
Co., Intel Corp., Microsoft Corp. and others -- going much higher," warns
Michael Stolper, stock adviser. "When our economy levels off, companies
hypersensitive to business cycles will suffer major earnings contractions."

QUICKIES: "Recent Asian developments solidified the bullish case for bonds and
pose a threat to stock markets. At some point there will be a great buying
opportunity in Asian stocks, but for now it's too soon to make that call." (Bank
Credit Analyst) "There is a long-standing mantra that smaller company stocks
grow faster than big ones. We may be rewriting the textbooks on that mantra."
(James Paulsen, investment officer, Smart Money, September)

Notes and quotes from Julius Westheimer of The Baltimore Sun are distributed by
the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              125 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 14, 1998

LETTERS

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1378 words


Attention, thieves, please bring bench back

Will the person or persons who stole the recently installed personalized
concrete bench from my husband's grave at Forrest Oaks please bring it back? You
know, the one with my last name etched on the side. It was only there four days
.

The dollar value of the bench is quite low. The love and talent my family put
into decorating the bench in my husband's memory is priceless.

SUE CLARK

Austin

Econikaze

I would like to thank Sen. Phil Gramm for enlightening us with his partial
proposal to fix Social Security. His use of Aggie Economics reminds you of
Voodoo Economics where the trickle-down theory becomes an almost nonexistent
drip. He expounds that it will cost, according to many of the nation's leading
economists, approximately $2 trillion to convert Social Security to a partially
private investment approach.

And, a special thanks to Professor James Galbraith Jr. (Sept. 7, Life & Arts)
for his writings concerning the "haves" and the "have-nots." All you have to do
is read some history and the truth should scare us into doing what is right and
honorable.

JOHN PEARSON

Austin

Missing the point

I'm writing in response to the column by Susan Millea (Sept. 9) in which she
asks Austin taxpayers to pay $1 million toward local child care. She states,
"The problems surrounding our child-care situation are complex." The problem is
not complex. In fact, it is summed up nicely in her bio at the end of the
column: "Millea, who has a doctorate in social work, serves on the Task Force
for Affordability and Access to Child Care as a parent who cannot afford child
care. She is the parent of four children."

Ms. Millea, with a doctorate in social services, is essentially unemployable.
Someone with a two-year degree from a vocational school has a much better chance
of earning a living wage than she does. She has a large family, despite the fact
that she does not have the means to support that family. If Ms. Millea worked
harder on improving her own employability and worked less on asking for tax
handouts, she might be able to provide for her own family and allow me to
provide for mine.

STEVE RAVET

Pflugerville

GOP sweep? You bet

Dave McNeely (column, Sept. 11) is engaging in a little wishful thinking
regarding the probability of a "GOP sweep" in November. It would be very
interesting to know who this source called a "wizened observer of the
Legislature" actually is, who believes that the governor will be hurt more than
anyone else if Republicans win a majority in the House. Sounds like whistling in
the dark to me!

Do all Republicans agree with everything in the Republican Platform? No, but
there are enough who do support it that will bring about, perhaps not all, but
most of the changes Republicans have been working hard to achieve.

Dave, get on board the Victory Train to the 21st century with the rest of the
Republicans of Texas. Join us as we correct the redistricting problems plaguing
us for years, as we create better schools for our children, as we provide a
better climate for private businesses and as we return to parents their
God-given right to say whether their minor children can be given prescription
drugs and receive abortions. Gov. Bush is working very hard to ensure a clean
GOP sweep in November and don't you forget it.

KATHY BOYD

Georgetown

Expose GOP's misconduct

I find it remarkable that anyone could take offense at White House plans to
release information on the sexual misconduct of President Clinton's right-wing
critics. After all, if Clinton's sex life is an issue, then so is Dan Burton's,
Helen Chenowith's, Robert Barr's and all the rest of the "family values"
self-righteous GOP.

Why has no one asked Gov. Bush about his sexual ethics? It seems to me that the
president is being held to a standard much higher than what the GOP holds itself
to. Just when I thought politics couldn't get any more hypocrisy-filled, along
came Monicagate!

DANIEL MICHAEL

Cedar Park

dmt1@ix.netcom.com

You're not McGwire

The president recently formed an analogy between his impending resignation and
Mark McGwire quitting after hitting 62 home runs. Mr. President, you are no Mark
McGwire.

TOM GLEINSER

Austin

gleinser@buildanddesign.com

Starr's report

on the Internet

Even though I opposed President Clinton in both elections -- and as much as the
recent revelations about him warrant consequences -- I cannot fathom the gall of
those who chose to publicly display the sordid details on the Internet. Is there
no sense of national humility and shame that come with this man's fall? Let the
Congress do their duty as prescribed by our Constitution, but don't drag the
whole country through the mud! We all need to get on our knees and pray for our
president, his family, our country and our world.

MIKE FIELD

Austin

mikefield@sprintmail.com

Politics of hate

With each new column, George Will (Sept. 10) reminds me why I left a political
party whose leaders are as small and mean-spirited as their policies.

If bitter disappointment in my president and a growing cynicism toward
government threaten to keep me from the polls, I have only to read one of Will's
diatribes to find my inspiration to vote.  Bill Clinton's reprehensible behavior
may have destroyed his presidency, but the Republican politics of hate will do
far greater damage to this country.

TRACY DUVALIS KRIESE

Austin

What's the difference?

What's the difference between a prosecutor and a persecutor? A prosecutor has
evidence of a crime and investigates in order to determine guilt or innocence. A
persecutor investigates an individual and will change the focus of the
investigation from one area to another as he digs for anything he can find. A
prosecutor is unbiased and is just as happy to determine someone innocent as
guilty, if not more so. A persecutor is biased and considers the victim of his
crusade to be automatically guilty and is just trying to find something to hang
on him. And finally a prosecutor is only interested in the truth and only wishes
for his witnesses to tell the truth, while a persecutor will vise his almost
dictatorial powers to try to force friends and acquaintances of his victim to
perjure themselves in order to convict the victim.

If you have any doubts about which Ken Starr is, then ask yourself these
questions. Has the focus of the investigation remained on a particular crime or
on an individual? Is Ken Starr, who offered free legal services to Paula Jones,
unbiased? What of the dozen or more people who claim Ken Starr tried to force
them to perjure themselves?

No matter how blameless someone's life is, a $40 million investigation will
uncover something that is at the very least embarrassing. It's pretty amazing
that adultery is all they can come up with.

DAVID KETTLER

Austin

Time to clean house

In the wake of the Clinton scandal, the domino effect is starting to
materialize. Democrats whine about unfair investigation techniques, and
Republicans gripe about Democrat retaliation in the classic "You tell, I tell"
drama that is so often seen in Washington. But am I complaining? No. After all,
who really benefits from this labyrinth of intrigue? The Democrats? No, for a
party is only as respectable as its figurehead. The Republicans? No, because a
seemingly respectable representative is about to get winged. It's the taxpayers
that really benefit from the whole thing; after all, it's the perfect
opportunity to clean house in Washington.

JAMES HILL

Hutto

Clinton vulnerability

is America's problem

Forget the juicy details of the Lewinsky tapes. All I need to know is that the
president so feared exposure that he risked his presidency and his
post-presidential career by lying under oath. A person with that much to hide is
a person vulnerable to blackmail, and for that reason alone, Clinton's reckless,
immoral behavior did threaten our national security.

Thank goodness the Starr report exposed Clinton's behavior and destroyed his
vulnerability. I can forgive the president's problem, but I don't want it in the
White House. Sexual addiction may be his problem, but his resulting
vulnerability was ours.

JEANNETTE COOK

Austin

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Clinton

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              128 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 16, 1998

Citigroup to cut 10,400 global jobs; Financial services giant

BYLINE: By Daniel DunaiefBloomberg News

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 470 words


NEW YORK -- Citigroup Inc. said it will cut 10,400 jobs, or 6 percent of its
staff, as the world's largest financial services company reduces costs to boost
profits.

Citigroup, formed in the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc., said it
will take a $900 million charge, mostly in the fourth quarter, to pay for the
cuts. The company is eliminating costs to meet the forecasts of Co-Chairmen
Sanford Weill and John Reed. They said the merger would boost earnings by $1
billion in two years.

Shares of Citigroup rose $2.81 1/4, or 6 percent, to $48.87 1/2. The stock is
down 33 percent since the merger was unveiled in April amid trading losses in
its Salomon Smith Barney brokerage unit and the ouster of former President James
Dimon.

"You've got a change in business conditions, and you have to make an
adjustment," said Fred Meinke, a money manager at First Capital Group, which
oversees $40 billion. "Sometimes it's more drastic than you anticipated."

Citigroup expects to reduce expenses by $680 million in 1999 and $975 million by
2000. About 35 percent of the job cuts -- 3,600 people -- will be in the United
States.

"While market upheavals might obscure the impact of some of our
revenue-enhancing actions in the short term, the operating efficiencies we have
identified will help us continue to build shareholder value," Reed and Weill
said in a statement.

Citigroup said $525 million of the savings will come from consumer businesses,
such as retail banking and insurance. It plans to merge centers where customers
bank by telephone and back offices, cut management and restructure the sales
force.

The company plans to cut $350 million in corporate businesses, including
emerging markets, global relationship banking and investment banking.

About $15 million will come from asset management and $85 million from staff
functions, the company said.

Citigroup plans to cut jobs in countries where it has workers in duplicate
positions and exit some "non-strategic" businesses. It didn't elaborate.

When the merger was announced, company officials said they saw opportunities to
increase revenue by selling Travelers insurance and Salomon Smith Barney
brokerage services to Citicorp customers, and by offering companies a broader
array of financial services. Citigroup says it has more than 100 million
customers in 100 countries.

Trading losses following Russia's debt default and currency devaluation in
August and difficulties merging some businesses forced the company to
concentrate on expenses, analysts said.

Boosting revenue is still the goal, said Diane Glossman, a bank analyst at
Lehman Brothers Inc. "This is a very small percentage of the overall expense
base," she said. "This is an indication of management's confidence of something
they can achieve quickly."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              130 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 18, 1998

Watch your language; Short-sighted phonetics experts giving pro

BYLINE: Mike Francis

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 614 words


Everything changes; everyone forgets. Today they're Coyotes; two years ago,
Jets.

Fans have awakened to the bleak truth that the teams to which they attach
themselves are not their own. They blame the owners, the players, the bidding
wars among metropolitan areas -- everybody but the real villains.

Who's to blame for the quashing of fan loyalty? It's the language consultants.

Consider the evidence. Never has the phonology set been so gainfully employed as
it has in the 1990s. A new stadium in a new city demands a new name. The name
must have a certain ring, a certain glamour, a certain marketability. The old
standbys -- Tigers, Lions, Giants -- won't wash anymore. A good phonetics expert
can, with a few well-chosen syllables, engender loyalty and instill pride.

Or he can make a gloomy situation -- such as the record of a hapless expansion
team -- worse.

Baseball's Rockies and Marlins were OK. The Diamondbacks will be fine. But the
Devil Rays? Good luck with those clever banners, Tampa Bay fans.

The Winnipeg Jets have vanished from the National Hockey League landscape. Ditto
the Quebec Nordiques and the Hartford Whalers. In their place are the Phoenix
Coyotes, the Colorado Avalanche, the Carolina Hurricanes. Football's Cleveland
Browns are now the Baltimore Ravens.

It's getting so a team that takes the field in a frozen stadium is likely to
finish the game in a warm climate, draped in teal and silver.

The new team is in place, the games are slated -- but 10 seasons from now, will
the name sound dated?

The Montreal Expos? What's an Expo? Does anybody remember anymore?

The Anaheim Mighty Ducks? It's current only as long as Disney can churn out
sequels, and this isn't necessarily a trend to be encouraged. At least the
Mouseketeers didn't buy the Yankees.

The Toronto Raptors? Who ever heard of a Raptor before Jurassic Park''? And what
does the movie have to do with Toronto anyway?

The Detroit Neon? Named after that pipsqueak of a car? Are you kidding?

Team owners, caution: Don't name your team after bad haircuts, polyester suits
or anything else that's going to embarrass you when you look at it 10 years
later.

*-- The Wizards are playing, but the Bullets are spent; the name of this
franchise just got up and went.

Washington owner Abe Pollin deserves credit for taking a moral stand with his
NBA franchise. He dropped the name Bullets'' in disgust after returning from the
funeral of his assassinated friend, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. After
a fan contest and a little deliberation, he decided to call his team Wizards,''
which manages to sound powerful and approachable at the same time. Not everybody
likes it, but it's hard to argue that Bullets'' is better.

On the other hand, some of the names that should be changed -- like the one
attached to the football team that plays in the same city as Pollin's basketball
team -- survive in all their sordid glory. Where are the Mouseketeers when you
need them?

*-- A rose by another name might smell as sweet as any assortment of hot
athletes' feet.

Some teams failed to hire the linguistics pros when they had the chance. The New
Orleans Jazz made sense. But when the team moved to Salt Lake City, it should
have become the Gulls, the Beehives or the Tabernacles. Jazz just doesn't play
in the shadow of the Wasatch Range.

Similarly, the Lakers should have remained in Minneapolis, instead of shifting
to Los Angeles. The Trolley Dodgers should have adopted a more laid-back motif
when they left Brooklyn for the West Coast. And how long will we have to hear
about the Tennessee Oilers?

It just proves that the linguists still have work to do.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: As a name for a Tennessee team, Oilers just doesn't make sense.  It was
a perfect fit in Houston, but Eddit George and his teammates need a more
appropriiate mascot.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              131 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 30, 1998

Alternating currents; Latin American art show electrifies issues of

BYLINE: christopher schade

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 850 words


ART REVIEW

RE-ALIGNING VISIONS: ALTERNATIVE CURRENTS IN SOUTH AMERICAN DRAWINGArcher M.
Huntington Art Gallery, 23rd and San Jacinto

WHEN: Through March 8

HOW MUCH: Free

INFO471-7324

Without question, Re-Aligning Visions: Alternative Currents in South American
Drawing'' is the most compelling visual art exhibit in Austin since the Dorothy
and Herbert Vogel collection of minimal art left town more than a month ago.
Under the direction of curators Edith A. Gibson and Mari Carmen Ramirez, the
Huntington has assembled an impressive array of 137 drawings and four
installations by 46 artists from Argentina, Brazil, Columbia, Chile, Peru,
Uruguay and Venezuela. As an organizational feat, the show is noteworthy, with
works plumbed from collections as diverse as The Museum of Modern Art in New
York and the Museu da Arte Moderna in Rio de Janeiro. That we are all lucky
enough to enjoy this exhibition, in its third and last stop in this country
before it makes its way to Venezuela and Mexico, is a credit to the University
of Texas' longstanding dedication to contemporary Latin American art and
Austin's growing awareness as a visual art city.

The show covers roughly the years 1962 to 1981, a period later characterized as
The Boom'' because it marked an explosion of drawing production as an
independent art form throughout South America. Thankfully, the exhibit is not an
attempt at a survey'' of the period, but is, as curator Mari Carmen Ramirez
notes, ... a non-chronological selection that condenses, rather than
illustrates, alternative developments in drawing.'' This, along with the
curators' conscious substitution of some of the more innovative figures in The
Boom over the more famous ones, has resulted in a show that bristles with energy
and is true to the heterogeneous nature of the period.

For many of these artists, drawing became an act of defiance against the
expectations of the art world and the often oppressive political systems that
gripped their countries. Haroldo Gonzalez's piece Dibujo en Cinco Lecciones'' (
Drawing in Five Lessons'') from 1972 is an example of stretching the conceptual
boundaries of drawing in form while challenging the state's restrictive
indoctrination in content. Gonzalez's piece has two parts to it: One is a large
pad of newsprint paper with a sign next to it inviting viewers to draw on it,
while the second component is a slide projector that illuminates a pedantic how
to' approach to drawing. The Uruguayan artist has created a powerful case for
the absurdity of totalitarian control and the basic human need for expression
and freedom.

Another artist whose work often comments on the political climate in an
expressive manner is Argentinean Carlos Alonso. Using a delicate line, Alonso
creates images of incredible brutality. His Carnicero II'' ( Butcher II'') from
1972 is a pen and ink drawing that figures a butcher in the process of hacking
up a number of human corpses. The grim image is a thinly veiled attack on the
longstanding military regime in Argentina. As curator Gibson observes, ... the
butcher is a common reference to Argentina's cattle-based economy, the human
appendages that hang from unseen torsos address the state's genocide of its
citizenry, which would ultimately result in 15,000-20,000 disappearances.'''
Gibson's essay in the accompanying exhibit catalogue, also titled Re-Aligning
Vision: Alternate Currents in South American Drawing,'' is an excellent source
for understanding the cultural, economic and political context which brought
forth this boom.

This is not to say that all the drawings here are forms of political protest.
Many of the art works seem foremost to be testing the formal and conceptual
parameters of what a drawing is. One such piece is Gego's (Gertrude
Goldschmidt's) Meccano (Dibujo sin papel, num. 23)'' ( Drawing without paper'')
from 1985. Made of aluminum, iron wire and iron chain, the piece is suspended
from the ceiling, about 18 inchesfrom the wall. What results is an interesting
conceptual quandry -- from a distance the wires read visually as lines, while
closer the three-dimensional quality of the materials triggers the feeling of
sculpture. Stepping even nearer, the piece transforms again as its own shadow
cast on the wall reiterates a pictorial aim. By removing the support from the
drawing, Gego has raised a whole host of questions about the somewhat arbitrary
demarcations that are made between mediums of expression.

What is evident with all of the artists in this show is a real pursuit of
freedom. Whether it be for broader goals such as social, political and economic
change, or personal ones such as expressive, formal or conceptual independence
from previous definitions of art, these artists have sought a wider range of
possibilities. To see the traces of such a struggle is breathtaking. It's what
great art is all about.

'Re-Alinging Visions:

Alternative Currents in South American Drawing'

Where: Archer M. Huntington Art Gallery, 23rd and San Jacinto

When: Through March 8

How much: Free

Info: 471-7324

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carlos alonso's 'Carnicero II' (Butcher II') from 1972 is a pen and ink
drawing of a butcher hacking up himan corpses - an attack on the longstanding
military regime in Argentina. // Gego's Meccano (Dibujo sin papel, num. 23)'
('Drawing without paper') from 1985 is an aluminum, iron wire and iron chain
piece suspended fromthe ceiling, about 18 inches from the wall.  What results is
an interesting conceptual quandary. // Harold Gonzalez's piece 'Dibujo en Cinco
Leccinnes' ("Drawing in five Lessons") from 1972 stretches the conceptual
boundaries of drawing in form while challenging the state's restrictive
indoctrination in content.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              143 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 18, 1998

Unions getting look in UT salary debate; Engelhardt gets teaching

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 968 words


Unions getting look in UT salary debate

In the ongoing debate over salaries for non-teaching employees at the University
of Texas, the University Staff Association is inviting staff members to discuss
the pros and cons of unionizing. The meeting is from 5:15 to 7 p.m. Wednesday in
Hogg Auditorium.

A panel also will be featured, including UT law professor Jack Getman and
representatives of the Austin Federation of Teachers, Texas State Employees
Union and the AFL- CIO.

"We want the people of Texas to understand this is a crucial problem that the
university can't ignore," said Peg Kramer, staff association president. She
appeared before the UT System Board of Regents Thursday, urging that it help UT
President Larry Faulkner find more money for salaries.

Faulkner plans to spend $9.5 million on raises through Fall 1999, and regents
expressed confidence in his commitment to solving pay inequities. Kramer
estimated it would cost $51 million to tackle the problem.

Engelhardt gets teaching award

The UT College of Engineering has given its highest teaching award to Michael
Engelhardt, associate professor of civil engineering. The Lockheed Martin
Tactical Aircraft Systems Award for Excellence in Engineering Teaching is the
fifth teaching honor Engelhardt has received at UT since 1991.

He was selected for the latest award by faculty and students. Engelhardt earned
his bachelor's and master's degrees in civil engineering from the University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a doctorate from the University of California-
Berkeley.

SWT selects Boehm for honor

After a national search, Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos found
someone in its own back yard to hold its $1 million endowed Jesse H. Jones
Distinguished Chair in Geographic Education.

Richard Boehm is a geography professor at SWT in addition to directing the
school's Gilbert Grosvenor Center for Geographic Education and helping to
coordinate the Texas Alliance for Geographic Education. In 1990, he received the
Distinguished Geography Educator Award from the National Geographic Society.

CBS's Rather to speak at UT

CBS Evening News anchor and managing editor Dan Rather gives his "Observations
on Worldwide Qualities in Leadership" at UT's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public
Affairs on Thursday as part of the 1998 Distinguished Lecturer Series sponsored
by the UT Quality Center, Office of the President.

Rather, who also anchors 48 Hours, will speak in the LBJ Auditorium in Sid
Richardson Hall, from 3:30 to 5 p.m. Seating is limited, and the lecture costs
$10, which must be pre-paid.

For information, contact the Quality Center at 471-9970 or send e-mail to
utqc@mail.utexas.edu. The Web address is http://www.utexas.edu/admin/utqc.

Southwestern honors Kain

Edward Kain, professor and chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology
at Southwestern University in Georgetown, has received a top teaching award. The
William Carrington Finch Award, named for a former Southwestern president,
honors excellence in teaching, research and community service.

Kain was chosen by Southwestern President Roy Shilling after being nominated by
faculty, students and administrators.

Cancer center gets $5 million

UT M.D. Anderson Cancer Center's Science Park-Research Division in Smithville
recently received its largest donation: $5 million from the Houston-based
Cockrell Foundation to further understanding of cancer and ways to prevent it.

Donated in honor of the late Virginia Harris Cockrell, the gift will establish
an endowment for pilot research projects, special equipment purchases and
community outreach. The research division will carry Cockrell's name. She was
born in Smithville and was an M.D. Anderson patient.

M.D. Anderson also received approval from UT regents last week to expand its
Jesse H. Jones Rotary House International, a 198- room patient/family hotel for
patients and their families. The $13.6 million expansion adds 126 rooms.

Begala to address LBJ grads

White House strategist and UT graduate Paul Begala will give the commencement
address at the 27th annual LBJ School graduation 11 a.m. Saturday in Bates
Recital Hall.  The universitywide graduation follows at 7 p.m. featuring U.S.
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison.

Four UT instructors honored

Four UT faculty members have received 1997-98 University Cooperative Society
Research Excellence Awards to honor career work and research papers.

Career Research Excellence Awards of $5,000 went to English professor Thomas
Cable, who has been on the faculty since 1972 and has done groundbreaking
research on Old English poetry and the history of the English language, and to
John Roueche, a professor of educational administration who also directs the
Community College Leadership Program. He has been on the faculty for 27 years
and has done research on the development of reading and math skills.

Best Research Paper awards of $2,500 each went to Ian Dalziel, associate
director of the Institute for Geophysics, and to Brian Leiter, a philosophy
professor. Dalziel's paper explored how changes in geography and shifts in the
plates beneath the Earth's surface affect climate and influence biological
evolution. Leiter's paper brought new understanding to Nietzsche's ideas on
ethics and morality.

Huston-Tillotson registration

Open registration for summer and fall semesters is under way at Huston-Tillotson
College through Aug. 26. For more information, call 505-3082.

Temple providing information

Temple College hosts an Information Night on requirements for dual credit and
first-time students at its new Taylor Center, 516 N. Main St., Taylor. Sessions
will be from 7:30 to 8 p.m. and repeated from 8 to 8:30 p.m. For more
information, call the school at (512) 352-2688.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Richard Boehm// Michael Engelhardt,

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              146 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 29, 1998

Wine, women and health: a mixed drink

BYLINE: Steven M. Pratt

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1051 words


"I used to drink once in a while on the weekend," said a middle-age woman who is
trying to take care of herself . "But after everything I see, I'm going to start
drinking red wine with dinner every night. That should be fun."

It may be fun: Wine, beer and spirits have been associated with good times and
good food almost since history was first recorded. But blending alcohol into
your lifestyle may not be the most healthful of practices, especially if you are
female, experts say.

"There is no medical or nutritional organization that I know of that would
advocate consumption of alcohol for the lowering of risk of heart disease or
cancer or other disease," says Linda Van Horn, professor of preventive medicine
at Northwestern University Medical School.

Why consider drinking for health ?

In the last few years a steady stream of creditable research has pointed to
positive effects of alcohol, red wine in particular.

Harvard heart researcher Dr. Charles H. Hennekens has been widely quoted as
saying that light to moderate alcohol consumption (two to three drinks a day for
men and one to two for women) protects against heart disease. More than a dozen
well-run studies support that statement.

Even the government's National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey I last
year concluded that two to seven drinks per week was associated with "a
significant reduction in the risk for cardiac heart disease for both males and
females."

Meanwhile, researchers from the French National Institute of Health report that
moderate amounts of alcohol appear to help improve brain function in older
women. Older women who drank two or more glasses of wine daily were 2.5 times
more likely to score in the top 10 percent on neuro-psychological tests than
female non-drinkers. Women who drank less than two glasses daily were 1.7 times
more likely to score in the top 10 percent than teetotalers.

The same effect was not seen in men, and researchers think there could be a
connection between alcohol intake and hormonal changes in aging women.

Another French study found moderate wine consumption to be associated with a
lower risk for Alzheimer's disease and dementia in women and men.

Grape expectations

Although low to moderate use of alcohol in general seems to lower risk of heart
disease, the antioxidant compounds in wine, red wine in particular, appear to
reduce the oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (the so-called bad
cholesterol), retard blood platelet formation and keep fat from building up in
the arteries, all factors related to the onset of coronary heart disease,
according to research by professor John Folts, director of the coronary
thrombosis research lab at the University of Wisconsin Medical School in
Madison. Other research supports these findings.

A team of researchers at Northwestern University recently found that the
chemical resveratrol found in high concentrations in grape skins and thus in red
wines acts like estrogen, a hormone known to protect against heart disease.

On the surface there may seem to be good reasons to have a glass or two of wine
with dinner -- maybe more so for post-menopausal women who are at greater risk
of heart disease than younger women or even men their age.

But there is more to consider, especially for women.

Some drawbacks of alcohol are so well established that they sometimes are
forgotten: accidents, domestic problems, hypertension, anemia, malnutrition,
liver damage and alcoholism.

More recent studies are showing that for women, alcohol increases risk of breast
cancer.

In a re-analysis of six studies involving more than 320,000 women from four
countries, Harvard researchers found that women who drank two to five drinks per
day (30 to 60 grams of alcohol) had a 41 percent greater risk of breast cancer
than those who did not drink. For each 10 grams of alcohol, there was an
increased risk of 9 percent. (Ten grams of alcohol is equivalent to a 5-ounce
glass of wine, a 12-ounce beer or 1.5 ounces of 80-proof distilled spirits.)

I t may be alcohol's ability to act like estrogen (which protects against heart
disease) that increases the risk of breast cancer, researchers say.

Menopause threshold

Women also have a lower tolerance for alcohol than men, not only because they
tend to weigh less but because the female body has less of the enzyme alcohol
dehydrogenase, which intercepts alcohol in the stomach before it reaches the
bloodstream, says Charles S. Fuchs, professor of medicine at Harvard Medical
School. Not only does it intoxicate women faster, but it also makes them more
susceptible to cirrhosis, he says.

How does it all add up?

"For premenopausal women the risks of alcohol outweigh the benefits," says Dr.
JoAnn Manson, professor of medicine at Harvard. "But for post-menopausal women
with risk factors for heart disease such as family history, hypertension, high
cholesterol and so forth, the benefits of small amounts of alcohol seem to
outweigh the risk of breast cancer."

"To me, if you are not normally drinking, you have to weigh benefits and risks
of even one glass of wine," says Susan Gapstur, assistant professor of
preventive medicine and a cancer epidemiologist at Northwestern University
Medical School.

Also remember that all the studies have noticed positive effects only with small
amounts of alcohol, usually two to three drinks per day for men and less than
two drinks for women. More alcohol results not only in the loss of benefits but
much higher risks, says Van Horn .

"The climate of opinion seems to be that if you do drink, perhaps it should be
red wine in moderate quantities," Van Horn says, "since at least it has some of
the cholesterol-lowering antioxidants or other phytochemicals that may be
beneficial.

"But remember that most of these studies are epidemiological," she says.

Such studies draw conclusions by studying large groups of people going about
their daily lives, not sequestered in a laboratory .

"There has been no way to separate red wine consumption, for instance, from
other lifestyle characteristics of those who drink it," Van Horn says. Wine
drinkers may eat more healthfully, may get more exercise, and may cope better
with stress or other factors that could contribute to lower risk of disease.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Researchers recently found that a chemical in red wines acts like
estrogen, a hormone known to protect against heart disease but that also
contributes to breast cancer//Women's tolerance for alcohol is lower than men's,
so for premenopausal women, the risks may outweigh the benefits.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              147 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  June 7, 1998

ROWLING ABOUT; THE PROVINCES

BYLINE: PARIS PERMENTER, JOHN BIGLEY

SECTION: Travel; Pg. G4

LENGTH: 2296 words


BRITISH COLUMBIA

* MAJOR CITIES: Vancouver, Victoria, Whistler

* INFORMATION: (800) 663-6000; http://www.travel.bc.ca

* RECOMMENDED FOR: museums, botanical gardens, mountain scenery, outdoor
adventure

* HIGHLIGHTS: British Columbia or just "BC" offers some of the best city and
natural attractions in Canada. Start with a tour of Vancouver, a picturesque
city tucked between the mountains and the sea. Boasting a temperate climate, the
waterfront city of Vancouver is home to Stanley Park, the Vancouver Aquarium and
the city's beautiful Queen Elizabeth Park, with its towering evergreens and
multiclimate Bloedel Conservatory. This sophisticated city is infused with an
international air, thanks partly to the strong business with the Pacific Rim.
Shop for fine art in Granville Island, enjoy a panoramic view of the city with a
skyride up Grouse Mountain, or meditate at Dr. Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese
Garden in bustling Chinatown. From Vancouver, it's a quick high-speed ferry ride
to Victoria, a classically British city on Vancouver Island. Stroll Government
Street and shop for native crafts, learn more about totem poles at Thunderbird
Park, and enjoy high tea at the elegant Empress Hotel.

ALBERTA

* MAJOR CITIES: Calgary, Edmonton

* INFORMATION: 800-661-8888; http://www.atp.ab.ca

* RECOMMENDED FOR: eco-tourists, campers, shoppers, anglers

* HIGHLIGHTS: Dedicated shoppers can put their skills to the test at the West
Edmonton Mall, billed as the world's largest shopping and entertainment complex
with more than 800 shops, the World Waterpark and the Galaxyland Amusement, and
the Ice Palace skating rink. Activities range from a submarine ride to miniature
golf to Atlantic bottlenose dolphin shows.  With its soaring Rocky Mountains,
Western Canada boasts some of the nation's most breathtaking scenery. Alberta is
the home of Calgary, a western town that recalls its heritage with an annual
rodeo, this year scheduled July 3-12.  The province is best known for its
national parks: Banff, Jasper and Waterton Lakes, each tucked gloriously in the
Rocky Mountains. Sports enthusiasts will find a full menu of offerings ranging
from mountain biking to canoeing to golf on championship courses shared with elk
and moose. Elk are stars of the show at Elk Island National Park, also a
favorite with birders.

NORTHWEST TERRITORIES

* MAJOR CITIES: Yellowknife, Inuvik

* INFORMATION: 800-661-0788; http://www.nwttravel.nt.ca

* RECOMMENDED FOR: eco-tourism, Northern Lights, wildlife viewing

* HIGHLIGHTS: The northernmost reaches of Canada, where the land mass breaks up
as it approaches the Arctic, are the Northwest Territories. This area,
continuously carved by ice and water, is under political change as well. On
April 1, 1999, the Northwest Territories will be divided into two sections: the
Northwest Territories on the western region and Nunavut, the Inuit lands on the
eastern side. The capital city of the Northwest Territories is Yellowknife,
which can be reached by road from Alberta and British Columbia or by air from
Calgary and Vancouver, connecting from the U.S.The Northwest Territories attract
summer vacationers in search of the aurora borealis, the hauntingly beautiful
northern lights. During the lengthy days, travelers can take part in canoeing,
rafting, fishing for great northern pike, and wildlife viewing for a chance to
see caribou, Dall sheep, arctic foxes, polar bears and beluga whales

NUNAVUT

* MAJOR CITIES: Iqaluit, Pangnirtung

* INFORMATION: (800) 491-7910; http://www.nunatour.nt.ca

* RECOMMENDED FOR: fishing, hunting, adventure travel, northern lights

* HIGHLIGHTS: OK, got the "been there, done that" attitude? Then perhaps Nunavut
is the answer. Pronounced "none-of-it," this remote destination is for those
seeking Arctic adventure in the form of hiking, kayaking, Inuit culture and
incredible wildlife viewing. This territory is the home of the Inuit, tucked
high in the Arctic near Hudson and James Bay Islands and the eastern Northwest
Territories. The region can only be reached by plane (there are no roads).
Nunavut officially becomes a separate territory next year but already offers
plenty of visitor attractions for those looking to get off the beaten path.
Activities here include Floe Edge tours led by Inuit guides for a peek at whales
and polar bears, visits with local crafts people, fly-in visits to remote
lodges, and a look at fjords , glaciers, and Arctic scenery.

YUKON

* MAJOR CITY: Dawson City

* INFORMATION: (867) 667-5340; http://www.touryukon.com

* RECOMMENDED FOR: historic attractions, eco-tourism, northern lights, adventure
travel

* HIGHLIGHTS: Just the name "Yukon" stirs up pictures of rugged mountains,
adventurous explorers and gold rush fever. This year marks the 100th anniversary
of the Klondike Gold Rush.  Today travelers can still try their hand at panning
for gold or look for activity in the form of whitewater river rafting, kayaking,
or soaking in the Takhini Hot Springs. Wildlife spotters will have plenty of
opportunities to see some of the province's many residents: Dall sheep, moose,
arctic swans and black bears. Summer visitors can also check out some of the
Yukon's special events such as the Yukon Gold Panning Championships (July 1) in
Dawson City and the Yukon International Storytelling Festival (June 18-21) in
Whitehorse.

SASKATCHEWAN

* MAJOR CITIES: Saskatoon, Regina

* INFORMATION: (800) 667-7191; http://www.sasktourism.sk.ca

* RECOMMENDED FOR: bicycling, fishing

* HIGHLIGHTS: Perched on the vast plains, Saskatchewan is home to the Prince
Albert National Park, a favorite for spotting bear, moose and many species of
birds. Saskatchewan, with miles of roads stretching to the horizon, is excellent
for bicycling as well.

MANITOBA

* MAJOR CITY: Winnipeg

* INFORMATION: (800) 665-0040; http://www.gov.mb.ca/travel-manitoba

* RECOMMENDED FOR: historic sites, multicultural experiences

* HIGHLIGHTS: Manitoba offers outdoor and city activities. In the fall months,
the region's city of Churchill is best known as the "Polar Bear Capital of the
World." Travelers will find opportunities for summer activities including
swimming, scuba diving in area lakes, windsurfing, wildlife spotting and more.
Manitoba is also home to one of Canada's largest summer festivals, Folklorama,
Aug. 2-15.  This Winnipeg event features more than 3,000 performers and more
than half a million visitors. Live entertainment fills the pavilions with song
and dance.  Fire breathers light up the night at the Caribbean Pavilion,
Highland dancers energize the Scottish Pavilion, and crowds sing along to
Sicilian tunes at the Italian area.  You might even find yourself called up on
stage to learn the Zorba the Greek dance at the Greek Islands Pavilion. Exhibits
at each area display the artistic and historic pride of each nation.  Hungarian
embroidery and antique costumes, traditional Korean dress and Mayan paintings
are just a few of the displays . Folklorama dining is as varied as the countries
themselves: Belgian waffles, Bavarian wurst, Jamaican jerk pork, Australian
shearers stew, Chilean corn pie and Hungarian cabbage rolls.

ONTARIO

* MAJOR CITIES: Toronto, Ottawa

* INFORMATION: (800) ONTARIO; http://www.travelinx.com

* RECOMMENDED FOR: theater, museums, Niagara Falls, wine region, theatrical
festivals

* HIGHLIGHTS: Ontario is home to Toronto, the largest city in Canada, and a
diversity of attractions to suit any interest. With half a million lakes
(including several Great Lakes) within its borders, Ontario summer fun includes
scuba diving among historic shipwrecks, fly fishing, canoeing , and, of course,
marveling at the beauty of Niagara Falls.  In Toronto, vacationers can spend a
day at attractions such as the world's tallest building, the CN Tower (walk out
on the glass floor to test your vertigo!), the Ontario Science Centre, the
Hockey Hall of Fame and the Royal Ontario Museum, then relax that evening with a
world-class theatrical performance, opera or ballet.  Theater buffs will also
want to mark their calendars for the Shaw Festival, held through October at
Niagara-on-the-Lake on Lake Ontario. This event showcases the works of George
Bernard Shaw and his contemporaries. Shakespeare fans can enjoy the bard's works
at the Stratford Festival, a six-month event that runs through November.
Families can experience Wonderland, Canada's largest amusement park, with 180
attractions ranging from Hanna-Barbera cartoon characters to live shows and
thrill rides. Toronto's three Novotel Hotels (800-NOVOTEL) offer hotel and
Wonderland packages during the summer months.

QUEBEC

* MAJOR CITIES: Montreal, Quebec City

* INFORMATION: (800) 363-7777; http://www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca * RECOMMENDED FOR:
Francophiles, gourmands, history buffs

* HIGHLIGHTS: Looking for a European vacation but don't have the time or money?
Then look no further than the province of Quebec. This French-speaking land
bustles with a Gallic atmosphere that includes romantic chateaus in the
Laurentian Mountains, sidewalk cafes and fine French dining .  Montreal is the
largest city in the province and offers a 19-mile underground city of
entertainment, including theaters, restaurants and nightlife and the elegant
Montreal Casino on Parc des Iles. Quebec City, a UNESCO World Heritage Site,
holds the title as the only fortified city north of Mexico, with a romantic
atmosphere that invites lovers to stroll its cobblestone streets. Summer
travelers will find plenty of events in Quebec. Montreal moves to a jazz beat
for 11 days during the Montreal International Jazz Festival, July 1-12, with
performers from around the globe. Montreal's Just for Laughs Festival, July
15-26, brings in comedians for more than 1,000 shows. In Quebec City, the Summer
Festival, July 9-19, celebrates with singers and dancers from around the world.

NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR

* MAJOR CITIES: St. John's, Labrador City

* INFORMATION: (800) 563-NFLD; http://public.gov.nf.ca/tourism * RECOMMENDED
FOR: eco-tourists, birders, history lovers

* HIGHLIGHTS: The easternmost point in North America (and already making plans
to be the first such sight to spot the dawn of the new millennium), Newfoundland
and Labrador are excellent destinations for travelers looking for springlike
temperatures and excellent eco-tourism attractions. Bring along your binoculars
and a light sweater to enjoy whale watching, birding and iceberg spotting. Home
to a 1,000-year-old Viking settlement, at L'Anse aux Meadows, a UNESCO World
Heritage Site, this region was also where European discoverer John Cabot arrived
500 years later. Summertime also means the Shakespeare by the Sea festival in
July and August, when the rugged coastlines become a backdrop for outdoor
dramas.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

* MAJOR CITY: Charlottetown

* INFORMATION: (888) PEI-PLAY; http://www.peiplay.com

* RECOMMENDED FOR: beach walks, lobster dinners, "Anne of Green Gables" fans,
birding

* HIGHLIGHTS: "Anne of Green Gables" readers will know Prince Edward Island.
Today Prince Edward Island National Park is home to Green Gables and through
mid-September Charlottetown hosts the musical version, now in its 34th year. A
bridge completed in 1997 now connects this small province with the mainland.
Once on the island, you'll find a relaxed summertime atmosphere that invites
long beach walks, quiet horse and buggy rides through the countryside, horseback
riding and just taking it easy. Bird lovers will be challenged by more than 300
species here.

NEW BRUNSWICK

* MAJOR CITIES: Fredericton, Saint John, St. Andrews-By-the-Sea

* INFORMATION: (800) 561-0123; http://www.gov.nb.ca/tourism/

* RECOMMENDED FOR: whale watching, Bay of Fundy, Acadian heritage, birding

* HIGHLIGHTS: Land and sea meet at this province that's home to the Bay of
Fundy, where the highest tides in the world are found. Another record: More
kinds of whales are spotted here than any other place . Adventure travelers can
do some sea kayaking with friendly marine life, and birders can travel to St.
Mary's Point in August for a chance to view thousands of semi-palmated
sandpipers. If you've experienced Louisiana's Cajun region, then don't miss the
Acadian Historical Village. Here the culture of those early settlers is
remembered along with the history of Evangeline and the long journey of the
Acadians. New Brunswick is also home to many resorts and lodges. The best known
is one of its oldest, the Algonquin Hotel Resort (800-441-1414) dating back to
1889. In those days, travelers paid just $3 (including meals) and sought relief
for whatever ailed them in saltwater baths at this resort. Termed "the Watering
Place of the Dominion," the hilltop resort has long been an Eastern favorite.

NOVA SCOTIA

* MAJOR CITY: Halifax

* INFORMATION: (800) 565-0000

* RECOMMENDED FOR: historic sites, museums, scuba diving, culture, adventure
travel, birding

* HIGHLIGHTS: This rugged province is a maritime dream, a place to wander along
a quaint waterfront and contemplate the early seafarers. Titanic buffs will
learn that rescue boats went out from Halifax when word first reached shore that
the ship had hit an iceberg off Newfoundland. Today artifacts are still on
display in that area, many at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic with a new
permanent exhibit on the ship, including the only intact deck chair from the
vessel. Wildlife draws many travelers to this region as well. Wild Icelandic
miniature ponies are found on some of the uninhabited islands while whales can
be spotted on many guided tours. Birders can spot bald eagles or sail out to an
island preserve to add species such as guillemots and razorbills to their life
lists.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              152 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  July 1, 1998

Hilton to buy casinos, split off hotel business

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 569 words


BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Hilton Hotels Corp. will divide itself into separate
hotel and casino companies and boost the new gambling company by purchasing
three Mississippi properties from Grand Casinos Inc.  for $650 million.

The changes announced Tuesday will free Hilton's more lucrative lodging
operations from its less successful gambling business.

Consumer confidence hits high

NEW YORK -- Unfazed by Asia's financial crisis and volatility in the stock
market, Americans' confidence in the economy surged to a new 29-year high in
June amid optimism that the job market and U.S. economic climate will hold
strong in coming months.

The Conference Board on Tuesday reported a bigger-than-expected gain in its
index of consumer confidence, which rose from a revised 136.3 in May to 137.6 in
June.

June's gain pushed the index above the 29-year high of 137.4 set in February.
The last time it was higher was in June 1969.

Saturn, luxury cars top survey

The best way to have a good experience buying a new car is to buy a Saturn or
buy something expensive, J.D. Power and Associates reports in its latest survey.
Story, C2

Theaters to improve accessibility

WASHINGTON -- The nation's largest movie theater chain agreed Tuesday to remove
barriers to disabled people from its theaters.

Carmike Cinemas Inc., headquartered in Columbus, Ga., agreed to resolve a
complaint filed with the Justice Department by a movie patron in Des Moines,
Iowa, but the company's agreement affects all of its more than 510 theaters in
36 states. Carmike's theaters have more than 2,700 screens.

Windows 98 booms despite suit

NEW YORK -- Early sales of Windows 98 are unexpectedly strong, and Microsoft
Corp. may want to thank the federal government for suing the company.

In what some suggest is a contrarian consequence of the government's antitrust
action against Microsoft, retailers sold about 530,000 copies of Windows 98 in
its first four days and roughly matched the early strong sales of the
predecessor software, according to a PC Data survey.

The strength seemed surprising after Microsoft's low-key launch Thursday of a
product that was widely viewed as a minor update to the popular Windows 95
software, which was launched three years ago with far more publicity.

Intel loses battle in antitrust war

WASHINGTON -- Computer chip maker Intel Corp. could not convince a judge that
last month's federal antitrust action is unfairly broad and poorly defined.

Intel, which controls about 90 percent of the world market for personal computer
chips, lost the first small battle Monday in a monopoly case that will likely
take years to resolve. Microprocessor chips are often called the brains of a
computer.

The June 10 Federal Trade Commission antitrust complaint charged that Intel
abused companies that rely on partnerships with the huge Santa Clara, Calif.
company.

Accounting giants become one

Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand today become one accounting firm with a
new name: PricewaterhouseCoopers.

The firm will have 150 employees in Austin. Rob Repass, who was managing partner
of the Price Waterhouse Austin office, will be managing partner of the merged
Austin offices.

Items are compiled from staff and wire reports.

How to contact us:

Business Editor Becky Bisbee: 445-3671

Fax: 445-3971

E-mail: Business@statesman.com

P.O. Box 670, Austin, TX 78767

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              154 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 20, 1998

National Semiconductor CEO plays to win; Touted for his vision, Brian

BYLINE: Dan Fost

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1152 words


Not too many chip companies like to take on the mighty Intel Corp.

While Microsoft's vocal rivals expressed glee at its federal antitrust woes, its
Wintel counterpart operated in a much quieter climate when it faced its own
antitrust suit.

But big, bearlike Brian Halla, entering his third year at the helm of National
Semiconductor in Santa Clara, Calif., doesn't back away from a fight. Ask him
about the Federal Trade Commission lawsuit against Intel, and he'll tell you it
doesn't go far enough.

"We'd like to see the FTC get rid of this 'Intel Inside' thing, where they spend
millions of dollars a year brainwashing (people)," Halla said. He also wants
Intel to make it easier for rivals to clone its chips, in keeping with Halla's
call for "a level playing field."

Intel won't take the bait. "Brian is welcome to his own opinions, but we don't
have any comment on those opinions," said Intel spokesman Chuck Mulloy.

Halla, 51, a former Intel man himself, is trying to give the No. 1 chip maker a
run for the money, and at the same time right his own company's foundering
fortunes.

He's gained notoriety in the industry for his pioneering notion of putting an
entire computer system on a single chip, a concept that could drive the price of
a personal computer below $500 next year.

"He's a tremendous visionary," said Mark Edelstone, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in San Francisco. "The challenge is trying to take a company
and move it into an entirely different direction. He needs to pull off the
system-on-a-chip strategy, but if anybody can do it, he's probably the guy."

Even while others fret over what those cheap chips will do to shrinking profit
margins, everyone seems poised to follow Halla's lead. The industry buzzword is
integration -- as in integrating more functions onto the main microprocessor.

National and AMD have aggressively pursued the sub-$1,000 PC market -- and Intel
has followed.

Other chip makers have run from Intel when it's moved into their markets. When
VLSI Technologies saw Intel getting into the motherboard business, for instance,
VLSI stopped making chip sets for motherboards. But Halla doesn't scare so
easily.

When Halla took over National, he said, the company thought of itself as a "fast
follower." It also had a sizeable analog components business, a safe haven from
Intel's digital dominance.

Ship burner

But Halla sought to change all that. He likened himself to the conquistador
Cortes, who -- when he reached Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico -- burned all his
ships to keep his men from retreating. Under Halla, National last year sold
Fairchild Semiconductor for $550 million, and bought Cyrix, a Richardson Texas
chip maker, for $540 million, and Mediamatics, a Fremont-based maker of PC video
chips, for $100 million.

"I said to the employees, 'We've burned our ships. We can only go forward,' "
Halla said.

"We're driving, we're innovating, we're leading, we're a player. Your darkest
days as a player are better than the brightest days in the bleachers."

National is seeing some dark days. It lost $69.3 million (42 cents per share) in
its most recent fiscal quarter, on sales of $510 million, and it has warned of
another rough quarter ahead.

The company said it would lay off 1,400 people, including 560 when two obsolete
fabrication plants at its Santa Clara headquarters are shuttered this year.
National has been battered by the same forces causing layoffs and missed
earnings across the chip industry, including lower sales in Asia and backed-up
PC inventories.

"The financial results haven't been healthy" for National, AMD or even Intel,
said David Wu of ABN AMRO, a Dutch investment bank. With Intel's profits flat,
Wu observed, "When the lion of the jungle isn't eating well, the hyenas and the
leopards don't get to eat, either."

Wu questioned Halla's strategy of selling chips for sub-$1,000 PCs. "He needs
high margins," Wu said. "If all you're doing is the low end, you're not going to
make much money."

Halla, naturally, doesn't like the low margins, either, but he said Americans
aren't ever going to buy $1,500 computers again. So he's selling to the growing
market, and he's looking forward to when the PC-on-a-chip goes into cars, clocks
and kitchen appliances.

"Going forward, technology will be driven by products you can put under the
Christmas tree," Halla said.

He's also encouraged that Intel's entry into the low-end market, the Celeron
chip, has been widely viewed as a failure. "The dogs aren't eating that dog food
either," he said.

Out of Intel

With his deep voice, easy laugh, and gift for analogy, Halla plays the role of
CEO as salesman. But his degree, from the University of Nebraska, is in
electrical engineering, and he's quite at home talking technology.

He spent 14 years at Intel as a "marketeer," he said, rolling out products like
the 386 microprocessor. In 1988, he left for a job with LSI Logic, where he
started to pursue his system-on-a-chip idea.

Seeing that LSI's CEO, industry veteran Wilf Corrigan, wasn't going anywhere,
Halla began to look around. He fantasized about running National, and when Gil
Amelio left to run Apple Computer, Halla got the call.

Halla now enjoys the luxurious office and lush campus that Amelio helped refine
at National, but otherwise he completely reshaped the business. (Halla declines
to discuss his predecessor, saying, "We don't do Amelio here.")

He's had successes and failures, and he discusses them in equally hyperbolic
terms.

When it's pointed out that analysts criticize National's lost networking
business, Halla said, "Networking was an example of horrible execution. It was
ours to lose and we lost it. . . . It was the worst failure in my career."

But the acquisition of Cyrix, Halla believes, will lead the way to some bright
victories. The company opened a new plant to fabricate chips in South Portland,
Maine, and not only did the plant open in a speedy 18 months, but two-thirds of
the chips it makes are perfect: a strong percentage for a brand new facility,
due to the extremely complicated nature of making silicon chips. "It's the most
exciting thing that's ever happened to me in my career," Halla said.

With that kind of success, Halla said he knows he's made the right move by
joining National.

"I had thought about retiring," he said. "I was playing golf with my dad. I was
on the 18th green and had shot 105, which is just awful. I said, 'This is why I
could never retire.' If my golf game stayed this (terrible) the rest of my life,
it would be like premature purgatory.

ADD

National Semiconductor

* What: Makes semiconductors, including Intel-compatible microprocessors from
Cyrix of Richardson.

* Where: Santa Clara, Calif.

* 1998 revenue: $2.5 billion

* 1998 loss: $98.6 million

* Stock price: $14.06 1/4 (Friday close)

* CEO: Brian Halla

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brian Halla: Visions of a system on a chip.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              156 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                August 18, 1998

Ex-KKK wizard in fifth trial for '66 firebombing; Mississippi

BYLINE: Timothy R. Brown

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 519 words


HATTIESBURG, Miss. -- Mississippi confronted one of the ugliest episodes from
its segregationist past Monday, putting a former Klansman on trial for the fifth
time on charges of ordering a 1966 firebombing that killed a black man.

Samuel Bowers, a 73-year-old former imperial wizard of the White Knights of the
Ku Klux Klan, is charged with murder and arson in the death of Vernon Dahmer,
who prosecutors say was killed for helping black people register to vote.

"It's time for justice to be done," District Attorney Lindsay Carter said as he
walked to the courthouse.

Bowers was tried by three state juries and one federal jury in the late 1960s,
but each one deadlocked.

He eventually served six years in prison for one of the most notorious crimes of
the civil rights era: the 1964 slayings of three civil rights workers -- Andrew
Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Chaney -- on which the film "Mississippi
Burning" was based.

In Mississippi's first latter-day attempt to convict a white man for crimes
against black people during the 1960s, Byron De La Beckwith was found guilty in
1994 of the 1963 assassination of Medgar Evers, then leader of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

Like the De La Beckwith trial, the Bowers case will dredge up Mississippi's
segregationist past, when black people who dared to challenge white control were
sometimes killed with impunity.

"Just the fact that the state is pushing these trials is very good. It means a
change has taken place in the official climate of the state," said Charles
Sallis, a college history professor who co-wrote a Mississippi textbook on the
civil rights struggles of the 1960s.

Because of the publicity, about 400 prospective jurors, a larger number than
usual, were summoned to the Forrest County Courthouse. Most of those questioned
Monday were familiar with the case.

Four Klansmen were convicted in Dahmer's murder, but Bowers went free. For the
killings of the three civil rights workers, Bowers and six others were convicted
on federal charges in 1970. He was released in 1976.

Prosecutors have said Bowers and fellow Klansmen were upset after Dahmer
(pronounced DAY-mer) announced that black people could pay their poll tax at his
grocery store. The tax, later outlawed by the federal Voting Rights Act, was
designed to discourage black people from voting.

The firebombing of Dahmer's home and store reportedly had been planned at least
three months in advance.

Citing new evidence and under renewed pressure to reopen the long-dormant Dahmer
case, state and Forrest County prosecutors revived an old indictment against
Bowers, Charles Noble and former Klansman Deavours Nix.

Noble is charged with murder and arson, Nix with arson. Trial dates for Noble
and Nix have been not been set. All three say they are innocent.

"It's certainly never too late for people to have justice," said Bea Branch,
former Mississippi president of the NAACP. "How can the Dahmer family go on with
their life until somebody is brought to justice for what they did to this
husband and father?"

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former Ku Klux Klan Imperial Wizard Samuel Bowers of Laurel, Miss.,
right, follows attorney Carl Ford into the Forrest County Courthouse on Monday
in Hattiesburg, Miss., for jury selection in his fifth trial on murder and arson
charges. Vernon Dahmer, a black businessman, was killed in a firebombing in
1966.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              159 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 4, 1998

Austin landfill plantroubles neighbors; Residents near two sites

BYLINE: Tara Trower

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1066 words


Chuck Croft and Georgia Young live on opposite ends of Travis County, almost 30
miles apart. Yet, almost as if they were neighbors, they share a common concern:
Both live next to landfills that could become home to the trash Austin residents
throw away.

Young worries that dust from one of the landfills, near Creedmoor, about five
miles south of Austin, is the reason for her chronic respiratory problems. Croft
believes a landfill off U.S. 290 and Giles Road in northeast Travis County is
leaking toxic waste into nearby Walnut Creek.

Faced with the closure of the city's landfill next March, before the new airport
opens, the Austin City Council is weighing neighborhood, environmental and
financial concerns to decide where to put its garbage -- 109,000 tons generated
annually -- for the next 30 years.

Not all who live near the landfills share Croft and Young's concerns. But
tensions between residents and waste disposal companies are not uncommon. Texas
has about 230 municipal landfills, most of which have residential neighbors
within a mile.

Austin city officials say neighborhood concerns should not be dismissed, but the
city's trash has to go somewhere.

"I could make myself really popular with some people and vote against one of
these contracts," Council Member Daryl Slusher said. "But we've got to look at
all the evidence and then decide what is best for the entire city."

The city is reluctant to ship its trash outside the county, and officials say
the two landfills being considered are the only ones large enough to make a
30-year commitment with the city.

More than 400 homes are within a mile of the northeast Travis County landfill,
known as Austin Community Landfill. The 290-acre site, owned by Waste
Management, would receive 83 percent of the city's trash under a contract the
city is considering. About 100 homes are within a mile of the landfill near
Creedmoor, which would take the balance. That 343-acre landfill is owned by
Texas Disposal Systems.

Last month, the City Council decided to postpone signing contracts with the
companies while an independent company evaluates the safety of the Waste
Management landfill. Of particular concern: 21,000 barrels of toxic waste buried
at the site in the early 1970s, before the company bought the land.

The two contracts combined are worth $1.9 million annually over the next 30
years. City officials say they prefer sending most of the city's garbage to the
northern site. Sending all the city's garbage to the Creedmoor landfill would
increase transportation costs $860,000 a year, adding about 54 cents a month to
customers' monthly bills, they say. City officials hope the study can be
completed in November, in time to sign contracts with both companies.

Young said that although her neighbors haven't been as vocal as people in
northeast Travis County, they have been watching the contracts closely. To
Young, the proposed Austin contract means more truck traffic, more garbage and
more dust.  The Creedmoor-area landfill opened before most of the neighboring
houses were built. Some residents moved after it opened . Others say the
landfill has not been a problem.

"They've been very good neighbors," said Barbara Nelson, who lives just east of
the landfill. "We haven't noticed any of the things -- odor and dust -- that
other people complain about."

The 343-acre Texas Disposal Systems landfill takes garbage from 16 counties .
The company also owns an exotic animal ranch north and west of the site. Company
officials say the ranch serves as a buffer between their neighbors and the
growing mound of trash and dirt.

"We've tried hard to work with the neighbors," said Dennis Hobbs, a company
spokesman. "I think most of them have been genuinely surprised at how well we
operate things."

Three neighborhoods have grown up around the northeast Travis County landfill,
which opened in the early 1970s and has operated under several owners.

Two other landfills are nearby -- a smaller one owned by BFI to the north and a
former Travis County landfill to the south.

The neighborhoods -- Chimney Hill, Walnut Place and Harris Branch -- are
marketed by developers and real estate agents as an easy commute for employees
of Applied Materials and Samsung. The area is designated a preferred development
zone as part of the city's Smart Growth initiative, which is intended to direct
growth to specific areas.

Some who live near Waste Management's site say there is an occasional odor from
the landfill and that buzzards are a nuisance. They say they want assurances the
landfill is safe, noting that parts of the landfill were built before federal
rules required liners to prevent soil and ground-water contamination.

"We were told by the salespeople that given the environmental climate of Austin,
there was a good chance that the landfill would close in a few years," said
Joyce Best, who moved to the Harris Branch neighborhood just east of the
landfill in 1990. "Of course, that has proven to be false, but even so, there is
no reason why a landfill has to be a blight on the community. But it still has
to be safe."

In recent months, residents and local environmental activists have questioned
the safety of the Waste Management landfill. Although residents have known for
years that industrial waste was buried on the site, they were surprised to learn
that the company planned to remove it.

Unconvinced that the company's state-approved removal plan was safe, the groups
petitioned for the landfill to be named a federal Superfund site, which would
mean that any testing and cleanup of the site would regulated by stricter
federal rules.

Croft, who lives in Walnut Place, said the episode has not inspired trust
between Waste Management and residents. "We should have been told," he said.

Waste Management officials say they have abided by a 1990 agreement with the
three surrounding neighborhoods. At that time, the company agreed not to expand
the landfill before 2005 or until it was 90 percent full.

The company planned to inform the neighbors about any removal of toxic waste
after preliminary tests were complete, said Jim Nelson, general manager for the
Waste Management landfill.

"People tend to be opposed to change whether it's good or bad," Nelson said.
"And refuse is seen to be undesirable, but we all make it, and it has to go
somewhere."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              160 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 6, 1998

Unions have a long way to go to gain public acceptance

BYLINE: Dave Broder

SECTION: Insight; Pg. J3

LENGTH: 655 words


For America's working families -- and for the labor unions that would like to
represent more of them -- this Labor Day is a time of mixed messages. Both can
point to some small victories, but in a wider perspective, both are running very
hard just to stay in place.

As a child of the Great Depression and a product of a smoky industrial suburb of
Chicago, I grew up believing that workers and unions were one and the same. For
one to do well, the other had to be strong. Even today, in a very different
economy, the statistics show that unionized workers are better paid than their
nonunion counterparts in the same occupations.

The story is more complicated than a single number can convey. Workers with high
school diplomas or more have seen their incomes rise; the relatively unskilled
are losing ground -- underlining the critical importance of education and
training for the work force of the new century.

The picture is similar for unions. John Sweeney, the president of the AFL-CIO,
said at his pre-Labor Day press briefing that expanded organizing drives by its
affiliates had added 400,000 dues-paying members to the rolls in 1997. But
overall union membership didn't grow a lick, because that many union jobs were
lost.

Again, there is an imbalance. The public employee unions continued to expand,
while private sector unions shrank. Unions now represent barely 10 percent of
private, nonfarm wage and salary workers but 37 percent of government workers.
More than twice as many union workers draw government paychecks as earn their
money in manufacturing.

This tilt is as unhealthy as the growing gulf between well-educated and meagerly
educated workers. To prosper, workers have to join the mainstream of the
American population with at least 12 years of schooling -- and probably more.
And to remain vital, unions have to sell themselves in the expanding areas of
the American economy. Given the conservative climate of the country on taxes and
spending, government is not likely to be a growth industry.

Sweeney came to office three years ago promising a more dynamic style of
leadership than the people he replaced. Lord knows, he has tried. The staff of
AFL-CIO headquarters is younger, abler and more energetic. Changes at the top in
many of the affiliated unions reflect the same trends.

But the giant Teamsters union, where reformers once appeared to have made real
progress in removing the taint of criminality and racketeering, has been wracked
by scandal. The man who led its successful -- and popular -- strike against
United Parcel Service, Ron Carey, has been forced to step aside as president,
and the indictment of its former political director has cast a cloud over
Richard Trumka, AFL-CIO secretary-treasurer. Trumka has denied any wrongdoing in
the laundering of funds for the mutual benefit of Carey and the 1996 Democratic
presidential campaign. But the investigation may imperil Trumka, one of the most
dynamic of the younger-generation unionists who otherwise would be Sweeney's
likely successor.

In 1996 and earlier this year, unions won some notable legislative and political
victories. They got a Republican Congress to raise the minimum wage and they
have stymied almost all the anti-union legislation, whether it has come up in
bill form or in state initiatives.

But as Sweeney concedes, unions have not turned the corner to gain greater
membership or public acceptance. One poll this year showed much higher approval
of business corporations than of labor unions. In another poll, twice as many
people said labor had too much influence in the Democratic Party as said it had
too little. A Wirthlin International survey this summer found seven out of 10
Americans disagree with the statement that union workers are better trained and
do a better job than nonunion workers.

Both the workers and the unions have a way to go.

Broder writes for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sweeney

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              162 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 4, 1998

Committed 'til death to the call of the forest; For many who share

BYLINE: Patrick Beach

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 3201 words


HUMBOLDT COUNTY, Calif. -- The morning mist hangs low, almost to the ferns and
huckleberry, obscuring the tops of the redwoods. And when the mist yields to the
sun, the trees appear not to be reaching for the sky, but holding it up.

Some here believe these trees have souls. Six such believers were on top of the
mountain in this basilica of redwoods that day -- six Earth First activists who
were dogging a Pacific Lumber man to stop felling trees. Business as usual.

Finally the logger blew his stack. "Get outta here!" he raged. "Otherwise I'll .
. . make sure I got a tree comin' this way!"

About an hour passed. Erik "Ayr" Eisenberg remembers the faller cutting into a
monstrous tree. He remembers it crashing 15 or 20 feet from him, a storm of
needles, branches and debris, then someone calling out, "Where's Gypsy?"

Gypsy lay facing downhill, his head crushed under the tree. Ayr thought for a
moment to check for a pulse, but he just put his hand on Gypsy's back. He went
to the tree stump and put his hands on it. He, his comrades and the logger all
fell to their knees.

Outside the forests of this Northern California county about 300 miles up the
coast from San Francisco, Gypsy was known as David Nathan Chain, 24, who had
lived in Austin since 1994. He came west a year ago, hitched up the coast, saw
the forest for the first time and returned to Austin convinced that making a
stand for the old trees was to be his life.

That it also meant his death is one of the cheap but unavoidable ironies in this
story. It's a story that can easily be cartoonishly rendered. In this corner: a
dippy band of apocalyptic, animist forest dwellers and self-appointed saviors of
the planet. And in this corner: a malevolent corporate raider from Houston who
mounted a hostile takeover of a logging operation and almost doubled the number
of trees being taken out of the forest -- neighbors' concerns about erosion and
pollution and endangered species be damned.

Now Earth First has a martyr, the Pacific Lumber Co. has a public relations
nightmare, and a woman named Cindy Allsbrooks of Coldspring has a son to mourn.

But for all the noise and heat and rhetoric, for all the Bonnie Raitt benefit
concerts and protest marches and rallies, for all the sloganeering and
anti-Earth First bumper stickers on GMC pickups in the company parking lot, this
is a story of a man who, at the hour of his death, was doing something in which
he fervently believed.

This is the passion of David Nathan "Gypsy" Chain.

This place

The redwoods, once seen, leave a mark or create a vision that stays with you
always."

-- John Steinbeck

There is the ocean, and then Highway 101, and then the woods. Generations of
families have put bread on their tables by hauling seafood from the Pacific,
salmon from the streams and timber from the forest. Most every family has lost a
man to the woods.

This is a place where work is assumed to be dangerous. Where commerce and
conservation strive for, at best, an uneasy truce. Where you can take a morning
run on the beach, with the ocean to the west and the stacks of the Fairhaven
Power Co. to the east. Where stands the Headwaters Forest, the largest remaining
tract of privately owned old-growth redwoods in the world.

Activists have been protesting the company's logging practices for a decade.
Just two days after David Chain was killed, Gov. Pete Wilson signed into law a
deal to buy 10,000 acres of largely old-growth forest for a half-billion
dollars, making it one of the priciest deals of its kind. Environmentalists are
unhappy with "the deal," which is what they bitterly call it, because it will
still allow Pacific Lumber to harvest trees and permit the incidental killing of
endangered species such as the coho salmon and the marbled murrelet.

In this place, the Humboldt County sheriff's office broke up an Earth First
protest at U.S. Rep. Frank Riggs' local office by dabbing pepper spray on the
eyes of protesters, an action it videotaped for insurance reasons. The tape of
those writhing protesters is played on the TV news whenever there's the least
little development in the court case arising from the incident.

This is a place where there is a tree so big you can drive your car through it,
although it costs $1.50 and you're encouraged to stop at the gift shop on the
way out.

Where lawsuits, like the rain, never quite stop coming.

Where a young protester named Julia Butterfly has not come down from her perch
200 feet up an ancient redwood Earth Firsters have named Luna since Dec. 10.

Where David Nathan Chain died Sept. 17.

Where no charges have been filed in his death, but an investigation continues.

Pasadena, Coldspring,

Austin: The Missing Years

"I wish people knew he was a person, not some gung-ho idiot activist."

-- Cynthia Main, friend of David Chain

His mother calls him Nathan, because David is also the name of her ex-husband,
Chain's father. She remembers a kindhearted boy, never a bully, headstrong when
the occasion called for it.

"Each year brought a new interest, but it was never anything like this,"
Allsbrooks said on one of the days between her son's death and his funeral. "He
was into tennis, then college, then partying with his friends, then moving to
Austin, then this."

Nothing gripped him until he got a taste of Earth First's radical strain of
full-contact environmental protest, collective living and general anarchy.

"He was kind of floating," said Christopher Martens, 24, of Austin.

They had known each other since they were 7, and when Chain went to Austin, he
was motivated in part because Martens was there. His 22-year-old sister, Sarah
Chain, also lives in Austin.

Everyone noticed a change in Chain after he came back from the coast that first
time, after it got cold and rainy and the Earth First presence here dwindled. He
spoke with new-found conviction about what was going on in the Headwaters. He
worked two jobs and saved money to get back.

Three months before his death, he celebrated his birthday with his family, and
he went home again to Coldspring at the end of July. He told his mother he'd
call when he got to California.

"I came in one day and he had left a message on my recorder and wanted me to
know he was there and he was safe and he was standing across the street from the
Pacific Ocean watching the dolphins jump out of the water," she said. "He was so
happy. He was so at peace with what he was doing."

Sarah Chain said of her brother's death, "It's this huge worldwide story, and
I'm his sister. I feel like I don't have time to mourn the loss of my brother.
It's such an event right now. It feels too big. Along with the shock, I felt
immediately at peace knowing he died fighting for something he believed in.
That's something most of us don't do our entire lives."

But would David Nathan "Gypsy" Chain have wanted his death to have become a
symbol for something? Would he accept his martyrdom?

Cynthia Main, an Earth Firster living in Chapel Hill, N.C., who knew Chain well,
has little doubt.

"He'd be into it," she said. "I'm not so into it. Nobody wants to be a martyr."

The company and the conflict

"There've been hundreds of martyrs out in the woods. Hundreds of people have
lost their lives."

-- Claudia Lima, Women in Timber member

The Pacific Lumber Co. dates to 1869 and built its first sawmill in Scotia in
1877. The big mill, Mill B, the largest of its kind in the world, is almost 90
years old. The company, which controls some 200,000 acres, has worked the same
land since its founding. Men went into that spectacular country where the trees
grew 300 feet tall and had stood for 2,000 years, and they cut timber, skidded
it down creek beds and sent it to the mill to be made into shingles and paper
and wood products. Today some 7,500 jobs in this county of 100,000 -- 15 percent
of the work force -- are related to the forest products industry.

Nowhere is that impact more pronounced than in Scotia, a company-owned town with
a proud history of work. The Pacific Lumber Co. has 1,600 workers, making it the
largest private employer in the county, and almost all of Scotia's 1,200
residents cash Pacific Lumber paychecks. It's not hard to find a house with a
sign out front that says, "We Support the Timber Industry" or "This Family
Supported by Timber Dollars."

The saplings of the current war were planted in 1985, when Houston financier
Charles Hurwitz mounted a hostile takeover of Pacific Lumber. He took on $864
million worth of debt, almost all of which he still owes. In no time, the
company seemed itching to play the heavy in the county's enviro-drama: True,
hundreds of jobs were created, but the number of trees being harvested was
almost doubled, too. Winter floods became more common. Landowners with property
nearby began to complain of widespread erosion and a decline in water quality,
which they blamed on Pacific Lumber's clear-cutting. A coalition of
environmental groups laid siege to the company with a barrage of lawsuits. They
also launched a propaganda campaign that turned the Pacific Lumber-Headwaters
battle into a national issue.

"The media go out and photograph the longest-dreadlocked, bongo-playing hippie
they can find, but it's not just them," said Doug Thron, a 28-year-old local
activist, lecturer and photographer who contributed his photographs to a new
book called "From the Redwood Forest" by area writer Joan Dunning. "It's not
just dreadlocked Earth Firsters who are involved in this. Nobody around here
likes Hurwitz. As long as Hurwitz is in this county, this type of logging is
going to continue. These people have obviously no regard for the land
whatsoever. They'll continue to log as quickly as possible, and one day that'll
be it."

Why, the company responds, would anyone think it is trying to log itself out of
business?

Pacific Lumber did almost double the rate at which it was cutting trees, but
that was because a post-takeover inventory showed the company had far more trees
than had been believed, spokeswoman Mary Bullwinkel said. The company will
eventually go back to pre-takeover levels, she said.

Whatever the concerns about the company's practices, Bullwinkel said, the woods
is an inappropriate venue for debate. Bullwinkel makes a point of noting that
the Earth First protesters were trespassing, and that Pacific Lumber workers
have been harassed and prevented from doing their jobs for years.

"It's very traumatic to all of us that something like this would happen,"
Bullwinkel said of Chain's death. "But logging is a very, very dangerous
occupation, even for those who know what they're doing out there."

Loggers, mill workers and their families are at their collective wit's end, and
it doesn't help that this interloper with no regard for the law is being made a
martyr.

"It's very painful to the people who have lost their own relatives in the woods.
They wonder, 'What if this was a timber faller that was killed?' There would be
a one-day story, how sad, and then it would go away," Bullwinkel said. "This was
not intentional, period. And I think it's sad that our opponents are using this
as a new cause."

Claudia Lima, a member of a group called Women in Timber and the wife of a
Humboldt County logging contractor, said wearily: "This isn't politics now. This
is life and death. I just wish it'd go away, honest to God."

In this sulfurous climate "the deal" was struck. Supporters, including Gov.
Wilson, President Clinton and Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt, saw it as
a best-case scenario, a pact that saved jobs and the environment. The
environmental activists -- not just Earth First -- were furious, seeing it as an
abject sellout, as galvanizing proof that the purported watchdog agencies were
ineffectual lapdogs and as a half-billion dollar ransom to a kidnapper who got
his money after threatening to level the land.

Hurwitz's position is put this way by local attorney Steve Schectman, who has
represented area landowners against Hurwitz and will "almost certainly"
represent Chain's family in a wrongful death suit: "You give me the money, or I
swear to God I'm gonna cut every . . . tree in the forest."

"Mr. Hurwitz," Schectman said, "is a multinational, international planet-raper."

Babbitt takes a more nuanced view but is plainly vexed that an end to the crisis
is elusive.

"The underlying issues are very complex," Babbitt said after Chain was killed.
"I've been dealing with them personally for a couple of years now in the
Headwaters negotiations. Get all the facts out, and hopefully we can find some
common ground. But I've got to tell you, right now, I don't know where that
common ground is."

A movement, not a group

"At some point we must draw a line across the ground of our home and our being,
drive a spear into the land, and say to the bulldozers, earthmovers, governments
and corporations, 'Thus far and no farther.' "

-- Edward Abbey

Walleye, a sleepy-looking guy with gnarly dreadlocks the color of sand, crouched
at the bottom of the mountain Earth First has occupied and declared a free
state, explaining why he gave up his recording studio and rapping career to come
to the woods.

"The Mother comes first," he said. "The Goddess comes first."

And so into these redwoods they come, to live among trees that many of them say
have souls and speak to them.

It's one thing to be struck dumb by the beauty of this place and altogether
another to find in it a source of a radically amorphous subjective spirituality.

And it's probably not what Dave Foreman had in mind when he got the movement
rolling. Foreman, a onetime frustrated mainstream environmental lobbyist, went
into the desert in 1980 and emerged a thundering prophet, dedicated to civil
disobedience, nonviolent protest and sabotage. "Monkey-wrenching," the latter
was called, and it included everything from cutting fence to rendering
bulldozers inoperable to spiking, or claiming to have spiked, trees. Spiking is
when metal spikes are driven into tree trunks to damage cutting equipment, but
they can also maim or kill workers when their chain saws or mill blades hit the
metal. Earth First no longer condones the practice.

"Maybe, some of us began to feel, even before Reagan's election, it was time for
a new joker in the deck: a militant, uncompromising group unafraid to say what
needed to be said or to back it up with stronger actions than the established
organizations were willing to take," Foreman writes in his book.

By 1983, Earth Firsters were in Austin, and a handful of the old guard remains,
bike-locking themselves to heavy equipment at Circle C, getting tossed out of
City Council meetings and turning up whenever they perceive an event needs an
infusion of hell-raisers. They've been joined by a band of younger activists,
including 27-year-old Chris Symmank, who hosts an Austin public-access cable
show on Earth First and who came to know Chain when both of them were protesting
here.

The sweeping generalization about today's Earth First -- a movement, not a
group, believers say without fail -- is that all the guys look like the singer
for the Spin Doctors, that Jerry Garcia died and the Grateful Dead broke up and,
well, these kids have to do something, don't they, and anyway this is a tad more
productive than getting a stud planted in your tongue, although there are
piercings aplenty visible among these people, most of whom could benefit from a
long, hot bath.

As is the case with many stereotypes, there's a grain of truth to this one -- a
good number of those occupying the mountain where Gypsy died do sport clumpy,
shapeless beards, do talk like they're stoned even if they're not, do say things
like, "Careful, man, that drum was made by an elder," and do not wear shoes,
even to their fallen comrade's memorial service at the Methodist Church at 11th
and Q Streets in Arcata. Sometimes they rename themselves after animals or
plants. In short, they lead anything but conventional lives.

But they range in age from late teens to well past middle age. And a perhaps
surprising number possess accoutrements of bourgeois capitalist society, such as
jobs, degrees and obligations outside the woods. Near the top of the mountain
here, less than a 15-minute hike from where Chain was killed, a most unscruffy
physician from Southern California looked back on an old joke that had acquired
a darker resonance. The joke was that as soon as somebody got killed, the
protesters would win. But they never really wanted it to be that way.

Deliverance

"He came because the firs were calling him."

-- Jennifer Schneider, a friend

The irony could not have been lost on Gypsy. Here he'd come all the way from the
working-class suburbs of Houston, all the way to Grizzly Creek, to protest the
actions of a corporate raider who counted his money back in Houston.

And there he was on the mountain, working -- trespassing, monkey-wrenching,
whatever -- to subvert the system. He was working with another protester when an
enormous dead redwood branch fell just next to them.

Gypsy, that was close, she said. That could have killed us both.

Well, Gypsy replied, it's a good place to die.

That was Sept. 16. Eight protesters were arrested that day. The next day, after
a stream of high-pitched profanity from a logger who told the protesters he
wished he had his pistol, Gypsy lay dead. So polarized are the two sides in this
war that they can't even agree on what kind of tree it was that killed the man
-- the company says second-growth redwood, Earth First says Douglas fir.

Bullwinkel, the Pacific Lumber spokeswoman, said loggers didn't know protesters
were in the area. Earth First then produced a dated videotape of the
confrontation just before Gypsy's death.

Earth First mobilized. Activists occupied the mountain from base to top. They
hauled in two-way radios, cell phones, food and other provisions. Sometimes it
feels like there's a party going on here, and sometimes it feels like the most
solemn of vigils.

On Tuesday, Cindy Allsbrooks followed her son to the mountain. She'd been to the
Bonnie Raitt benefit concert for the Headwaters on Sunday and was late to her
son's memorial service Monday night in part because she was awestruck by the
beauty of the forest. She said they literally had to drag her out.

She came to the mountain and saw the sign by the highway that said "Gypsy: You
Did Not Die in Vain," and she broke down. She saw the shrine the protesters made
in her son's honor. She told them she was from Texas, and that Texans were big
on hugs, and every single person got one.

On top of the mountain, near a makeshift barricade decorated with a rubber
death's head Halloween mask, a man called Jumping Stick sat next to a Pacific
Lumber loader, waiting for the sheriff to come. Waiting to go to jail. Listening
for Gypsy in the trees.

FROM BOX

Headwaters lecture

Activist and nature photographer Doug Thron will present a slide show and
lecture, 'Headwaters Saved?' at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the hancock building of the
Lower Colorado River Authority boardroom, 3701 Lake Austin Blvd.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Nathan Chain: 'Gypsy' was killed Sept. 17 by a falling tree.  //
Earth Firsters 'Brett' from New York and Jennifer Schneider from Southern
California pay their respects to a shrine created for David 'Gypsy' Chain, a
Texas activist killed by a falling tree while protesting the logging of
old-growth redwoods Sept. 17 in Humbolt County, Calif. // Chain's mother, Cindy
Allsbrooks of Texas, center, hugs Earth First activists Lucky Marlovitz, left,
and Robert DiPerna at the Grizzly Creek Redwoods State Park during her visit to
the place of her son's death. // A 1996 photo shows the Headwaters Forest in
Humboldt County, Calif., the largest tract of privately owned, old-growth
redwoods in the United States. Gov. Pete Wilson recently struck a deal to buy
10,000 acres of the forest, but environmentalists are upset because it allows
logging to continue. // At Monday's memorial to Chain in Arcata, Calif., a book
of natural fibers containing notes and prayers was given to the family //
Forest-dwelling Earth

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              163 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 11, 1998

Tito Pontecorvo's Long ride ; This horseman scorned communism to

BYLINE: Patrick Beach

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 1531 words


NIXON -- It has to start here, because this is where the horses are, grazing in
a clump over in the far corner of 200 acres of pasture outside of town. They
attract attention, these 35 Akhal-Tekes, descendants of one of the world's
oldest equine clans, because they're long-backed and long-necked, with
extraordinarily fine hair and no forelock. To the Western eye, they appear
assembled from mismatched components, like that Johnny Cash song about the
assembly-line worker who stole parts in his lunch pail and put together a car
"One Piece at a Time."

The horses are easy to describe. How they came to this two-water-tower town
about 75 miles southeast of downtown Austin is tougher. It involves fathers and
sons, communism and capitalism, the atomic bomb, oceanography, and a man named
Tito with a patchwork pedigree who says, "My work is to make nice horses."

Tito Pontecorvo's family was swept up in the ideological conflict that shaped
the second half of this century -- the Cold War. He lived most of his life in
the former Soviet Union, though his passport has more stamps than the post
office. And here he is at midlife, an entrepreneur operating on less than a
shoestring in Texas. How that happened is a story.

Horses figure into the story, too, but for now we need to blast out of the
mesquite pasture, back more than 60 years, to Italy, where everything was still
in black-and-white.

In 1934, Enrico Fermi, four years away from winning the Nobel Prize for physics,
was happily tinkering with his theory of radioactive beta-ray disintegration at
the University of Rome, where he was a professor of theoretical physics. He had
a colleague, Bruno Pontecorvo, also a physicist, who was married to a Swedish
woman. They were distracted by their work, and so they didn't pay much attention
to the saber-rattling until the war was practically rolling down the street.

Being educated men, they fled, but to different countries. Fermi came to the
United States in 1939. He found the military of his new country very interested
in nuclear physics, and in collecting the great scientific brains of Europe as
they dispersed. In fact, Fermi pushed the Navy to get involved in atomic energy.
And in 1942, under his direction, the first sustained release of nuclear energy
was achieved at the University of Chicago.

Bruno Pontecorvo was a pacifist, "an aggressive pacifist," according to his son,
and he wanted nothing to do with the American atomic bomb program, so he settled
in Montreal.

Tito Pontecorvo, born of a Swedish mother and an Italian father, entered the
world a Canadian.

The United States dropped the atomic bomb, then a second one. Bruno was further
convinced he did the right thing avoiding America. Bruno, in addition to being a
pacifist, was also a socialist. And so from Canada he looked to the Soviet Union
and thought, "What a good idea."

Which is how Tito Pontecorvo, then a boy of 6 or 7, fell into the dark and
disorienting well that was the Soviet Union in those days. His description of
those years is very much the standard picture -- long lines for radishes on
Gorky Street, unceasing sleet, nonstop scowling.

Tito grew up around the town of Dubna, in the Moscow region, and -- to hear him
tell it today -- was no friend of the Party.

"There were slave owners and slaves," he said. "Maybe it is OK for one who is
born with the brains of slaves. I was not. That's why I hated it."

Trained as an oceanographer, he found himself on a short leash when it came to
applying for travel visas to do his Ph.D. work. He'd spend eight months at a
time on research ships, collecting samples and data on ocean currents, return
home and apply again to go somewhere else. Eventually, the answer was no. Tito
asked his father -- the true believer -- to say a word to the local bosses on
his son's behalf.

"In our family, he was a communist idealist," Tito said. " I hated everything
that was communism. I told him, 'Listen, your communism doesn't let me work.' At
that time, in Russia, he could go in any door. I asked him to go to the KGB and
say, 'Let him work.' He went there and they told him -- it's a typical reply --
'Your boy is very nice but he drinks too much vodka and goes with too much
women.' "

In other words, a security risk. Tito Pontecorvo says the real reason was he
didn't have a drop of Soviet blood in him. But there's another possible
scenario: With his father a member of the party aristocracy (turns out the
Russians were interested in nuclear physicists, too), the Soviets couldn't risk
the young man defecting or being kidnapped.

"So," he said, "I became an oceanographer without oceans."

This was around 1980, when Tito Pontecorvo, a man of 35, found himself looking
for something to do. A full understanding of how he came to breed horses would
require a firm grasp of Soviet-era government, politics, institutions,
bureaucracy and corruption. The simple explanation is he knew and liked horses.
He had first ridden as a 5-year-old, while still in Canada. And he'd ridden
while at the university.

It was a time when the Soviet Union was cautiously exploring its czarist
history, reviving a few traditions, seeing horses as something other than, well,
a source of protein in the diet, frankly.

Bill Askins of San Antonio, who met Pontecorvo in Russia, says the man may have
single-handedly saved the breed.

"They were eaten, they were starved to death, they were indiscriminately bred so
that they lost their distinctive features," Askins said.

Pontecorvo's version: "The Akhal-Tekes had very big troubles."

And private ownership of horses was a very bad idea, usually, unless your family
happened to be a part of the technically nonexistent gentry.

"Still are alive the children of people who were killed for one horse," he said.

So Pontecorvo started acquiring these strange horses, not concerned so much with
aesthetics as with genetic potential. He bought them through what sounds sort of
like a money-laundering collective. He eventually built a stud farm -- pictures
suggest a fortress more than a pastoral farm -- on the Volga River.

He was drawn to the Akhal-Tekes, he said, in part because of their long history.
It's Pontecorvo's claim -- a disputed one -- that the Akhal-Teke is the oldest
pureblood breed in the world. The horse is generally regarded as dating to at
least 1,000 B.C. Their native habitat is the oases of Turkmenistan. The breed
has adapted to stand both intense heat and cold, and can endure long journeys
with minimal water.

Not many Akhal-Tekes made it out of the country in those scowling, sleeting
days, but once the country had exchanged one "ism" for another (communism for
capitalism capital for commune, that is), Pontecorvo found himself with a good
supply of breeding stock. The stud farm between Dubna and Kimry has some 250
horses -- roughly 10 percent of the Akhal-Tekes in the world.

The road to the free market being a potholed one, however, he also found himself
with not so many people in possession of rubles in sufficient quantity to buy a
horse such as his.

"I am a fanatic, but I needed a market," he said. "First I spoke with the Arab
countries and I saw there was nothing for me there. I was born in Canada, so I
don't need to make the visas and all those things. There the climate was the
same like in Russia. I hate the winter and cold. That's why I go to the map and
search to see the places where you can keep in the pasture the horse all day
long, and I see that Texas is the place. I have had some friends from Texas.
They explained to me that Texas is the best place in the world, and I think
that's true."

Askins: "I told him the place to come is Texas because there's lots of sunshine
and grass and the land is cheap. Damned if he didn't come the next year, and he
said, 'I'll be back and I'm gonna bring a planeload of horses with me.' I said,
'Sure, Tito.' He's a remarkable fellow. The establishment he has is the premiere
private horse breeding operation in all of Russia. His stables are fancier than
anything you'd see in this country."

So Pontecorvo started shipping Akhal-Tekes to Texas, with the aim of developing
a breeding group here that will equal the stock in Russia. He brought with him
two trainers, Eugenia Ugrinova and Sasha Pogodina.

"Still I want to make a breeding group of horses that will in Texas be equal in
quality to the Russians," he said.

He's sold a few horses in the year he's been here -- sold three, in fact, to a
couple of people from Green Bay, Wis., who drove all the way to Nixon, Texas, to
get the Akhal-Tekes. And you've really got to want one: One of Tito Pontecorvo's
horses will run you somewhere between $25,000 and $50,000.

(You know what it costs to ship a horse from Russia? Lots .)

And Pontecorvo is pouring the capital back into the business, trying to get a
good crop developed in Texas.

If his venture fails, it won't be because he bought extravagant furniture and a
big spread. The home of this Canadian-born Italian-Swede red-diaper baby, under
one of Nixon's two water towers, is uncluttered. This belated Texas horseman
sleeps on the floor of a double-wide.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOP: A blue-eyed Akhal-Teke is a member of a rare breed native to
Turkmenistan. The Akhal-Tekes nearly disappeared under Soviet rule // .ABOVE:
Tito Pontecorvo removes one of his Akhal-Tekes from a pasture at his horse farm
in Nixon. // Tito Pontecorvo's double-wide mobile home in Nixon is a big change
from his plush stud farm on the Volga River in Russia.  // Tito Pontecorvo shows
off one of his Akhal-Tekes outside his Russian breeding facility, home to about
250 horses or 10 percent of the Akhal-Tekes in the world.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              167 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 22, 1998

Female pastor in Waco finds some resistance; New leader of Calvary

BYLINE: C. Bryson Hull

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 362 words


WACO -- For Julie Pennington-Russell, the spiritual distance between Waco and
San Francisco is a lot shorter than the temporal.

She was a Baptist preacher there, and she's a Baptist preacher here.

But the new senior pastor of Waco's Calvary Baptist Church knows that the
Baptist climate in Texas is more conservative than it is some 1,500 miles away
in the Bay City.

Being a woman and senior pastor there is not controversial.

Now, after 16 years leading San Francisco's 19th Avenue Baptist Church,
Pennington-Russell is in a position to become a missionary within her own faith.
By doing what she's done before, in a state where it's never been done before.

"Sometimes you come to these life junctures, and you sense it's time for a
change and a new challenge. It had a sense of rightness about it,"
Pennington-Russell said. "For me, the challenge was personal -- the nature of
this church will call out some skills and gifts that were not tapped in San
Francisco."

After all, the Central Texas town is as much a Baptist stronghold as San
Francisco is a liberal one.

And when you are the first female senior pastor to lead a church in Texas, you
can expect some resistance from the conservative members of your faith.

Her earliest taste of it came when she delivered her first sermon in Waco on
Aug. 21. About 30 protesters from East Texas gathered that Sunday to picket her
sermon.

Pennington-Russell expects to see resistance at the Baptist General Convention
of Texas' annual meeting in Houston in November.

"The very reliable word on the Baptist grapevine is that there will definitely
be a challenge to our messengers at the convention," Pennington-Russell said
matter-of-factly.

The challenge is a parliamentary maneuver wherein a church's convention
attendees, or messengers, can be excluded by a majority vote of the convention's
body.

A similar challenge is expected against messengers from University Baptist
Church in Austin, which was disassociated by the executive board of Baptist
General Convention of Texas in February. That church ordained a gay deacon in
1995, and actively welcomes gays and lesbians to its congregation.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Rev. Julie Pennington-Russell talks about her move to Waco after 16
years leading San Francisco's 19th Avenue Baptist Church.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              168 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 24, 1998

Follow the leader? ; Bulls, bears differ on whether Intel can

BYLINE: Lawrence M. Fisher

SECTION: Weekly Business Review; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words


One school of technology investing hews to a simple strategy: Follow the
leadership. The shares of so-called leadership companies may not look cheap by
conventional measures, such as price-to-earnings or price-to-book ratios. But
because the leaders define standards the rest of the industry must follow, they
will always command a disproportionate share of earnings and growth. Therefore
the leaders will always bounce back from setbacks to deliver market-beating
returns, or so the school teaches.

The Intel Corp. is incontrovertibly a leadership company. Indeed it may be the
leadership company of its generation. Intel invented the microprocessor and the
dynamic random access memory chip and it continues to push the performance
envelope today. It is also broadly acknowledged to be a superbly run company.

Add to that the fact that the stock, which closed Oct. 16 at $83.75, has fallen
16.6 percent from last year's high of $100.50 on Aug. 20 and that its current
P/E ratio of 24.1 is below that of of the overall market's, and it is easy to
reach a conclusion. A technology investor has no choice but to own Intel, right?

Maybe. But not everyone believes Intel is a compelling buy at the current price.
Some point out that it is well above its 52-week low of $65.65 5/8 , reached on
June 3. And they are not at all sure this leadership thing is what it's cracked
up to be.

What makes the debate timely are the better-than-expected third-quarter earnings
recently released. last week. Bulls point to that report as a clear sign that
personal computer makers have worked through a glut of inventory that depressed
sales in the first half of the year. Intel had originally forecast that
third-quarter revenues would be flat relative to the second quarter's, later
amended that to a gain of 8 percent to 10 percent and actually reported a 14
percent gain. Many analysts expect a robust fourth quarter, too.

But the bears doubt that the current growth is sustainable. They say buyers no
longer need to increase processing power on a regular basis and that Intel faces
reinvigorated competition. As evidence of the strength of this argument, Intel's
shares fell $1 the day after the earnings announcement.

Intel bulls

So far, even the bears are not placing great emphasis on an antitrust lawsuit
filed against Intel in June by the Federal Trade Commission. For starters,
Intel's hold on the desktop is not nearly so absolute as that of Microsoft Corp.
Still, it belongs on the list of worries for Intel.

Count Mark Edelstone, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, among the
Intel bulls. He has a strong buy recommendation on the stock and a target share
price of $110. "I don't think these results would indicate anything other than
that Intel will remain a leadership stock," he said. Edelstone expects demand to
be strong enough in the fourth quarter that Intel will enter 1999 with a
backlog.

Michael Murphy, editor of the California Technology Stock Letter, has been
predicting that Intel might hit $120 by year-end. He expects money to flow from
"old economy" stocks like Gillette and Coca-Cola to "new economy" stocks like
technology companies as it becomes apparent that only the Intels of the world
can deliver double-digit sales and earnings growth in a recession.

"If we get the disconnect between old economy stocks and new economy stocks that
we expect, Intel can sell for 30 times 1999 earnings," Murphy said, giving it a
price of $120 by his estimate. He said he presumed that in the event of a
recession next year, companies would continue buying personal computers to drive
up productivity and remain competitive.

Technology changes

Companies did just that in the last recession, in the early '90s, driven by the
need to move old mainframe-based applications to client-server systems. The
spread of Microsoft's Windows 3.1 and the related Office suite of applications
drove demand for more powerful processors.

But the climate has changed. The big demand drivers are the Internet and
electronic commerce, which are limited less by microprocessor power than by
bandwidth. And on most of today's real world applications, there is little
benefit in upgrading from a 166-megahertz Pentium to a 300-megahertz Pentium II.
Windows 98 does not require more power than Windows 95.

Drew Peck, an analyst with Cowen & Co., said he did not believe Intel will be
the profit and growth machine it once was. "For Intel to sustain this quarter's
level of growth and profit requires a strong step up in PC demand," he said.
"That's a difficult bet to make." He rates Intel a "trading buy," meaning it
should be bought on dips and sold on pops.

Of course, it is possible to admire Intel the company but not Intel the stock.

"This is undeniably one of the great business franchises in our economy," said
Roger McNamee, a principal in Integral Partners, a fund specializing in
technology stocks. But he said the diminished need for ever greater processing
power, even more than greater competition, will lead to ever-shorter product
cycles and ever-shorter periods in which Intel can charge a premium for its
latest, fastest processors. "I think it's going to have lower highs and lower
lows," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              174 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               November 19, 1998

An uncertain year ahead; Austin's real estate market likely to

BYLINE: R. Michelle Breyer

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 810 words


Perhaps it is safest to take the middle ground. Austin's office market is no
longer all boom, but it certainly is not all bust, either. It is simply more
sophisticated and complicated than at any other time in the city's history.

The passage comes from the August 1985 issue of the Greater Austin Chamber of
Commerce's Austin magazine -- right before the bottom fell out of the area's
real estate market.

But it could have been written today, longtime commercial real estate broker
Mike Kennedy told a room packed with brokers and developers Wednesday at the
Institute of Real Estate Management's eighth annual Real Estate Forecast Forum.

"It's a time to be cautious," said Kennedy, president of Michael A. Kennedy
Interests. "There's a feeling of uncertainty."

Instability in the international economy, a lack of available capital and the
ups and downs of Wall Street all are likely to affect Austin's commercial real
estate industry in the coming year, a panel of real estate experts told their
peers.

But just how much is debatable, especially with the economic climate changing on
almost a daily basis.

"Nobody knows where the economy is going," said Art Carpenter, senior vice
president and regional managing partner of apartment developer JPI Texas
Development Inc. "There's a big schism between Wall Street and Main Street."

Ron Witten, president of M/PF Research Inc., a Dallas-based real estate
marketing research and consulting company firm, said he recalled talking to a
friend who went on a three-week vacation in August, a time when the real estate
industry was flourishing. By the time he returned in September, the situation
had changed dramatically. Development and acquisition deals across the country
were falling apart. The stocks of real estate investment trusts were plummeting.
Capital had all but dried up.

"We've had this roller coaster ride over the past few months," Witten said.

about the year to come:

Apartments

Between 1992 and 1997, more than 22,000 new apartment units were built. This
year, another 4,500 units rose from the ground.

Even with all the new construction, the market has been among the healthiest in
the nation, with a 96.6 percent occupancy rate and rents averaging $850 for a
1,000-square-foot unit.

But the market will slow in 1999 and 2000, Carpenter predicted.

Although another 9,000 new units are expected to be built over the next two
years, slower job growth is likely to pull down occupancy rates to 92 percent in
two years and cause rental rates to flatten, he said.

Retail

Strong job growth has led to record home sales, which have fueled strong retail
sales.

The result has been a boom in retail development and a steady flow of tenants to
fill that space, said Jerry Quick, president of Quick & Co. Commercial Realty
Inc. Only 7.5 percent of Austin's 22.8 million square feet of retail space is
empty.

Despite the addition of 2.4 million square feet of retail space next year from
South Austin to Cedar Park, Quick expects the vacancy rate to drop to 5 percent
next year. The reason? Most projects already have large tenants to fill them,
including grocery stores and home improvement centers. Because of the tight
market, rental rates will continue to increase 5 to 6 percent, he said.

Industrial

The slump of the semiconductor industry and the world's economic woes are having
an effect on Austin's demand for industrial space, said Kirk Rudy, of Trammell
Crow Central Texas' Austin office.

For now, the demand for industrial space continues to keep pace with new
development. The vacancy rate for the area's 23 million square feet of
industrial space is a healthy 6 percent. Even with more than 1 million square
feet of space planned, Rudy said he only expects the vacancy rate to rise to 6.4
percent.

"But that's not the same as a great market," Rudy said. "The game has changed."

Office

Austin experienced a spurt of office development in 1998, with the addition of
1.1 million square feet of new space .

With pent-up demand from growing companies, close to 900,000 square feet of that
space has been leased.

Nearly 2.5 million square feet will be completed in 1999, with another 2.8
million square feet "sitting out there ready to go," Kennedy said.

That doesn't even include the 1.7 million square feet of office space planned
for Austin's downtown market -- the shining star of the office market of late.
Although the vacancy rate for Class A buildings downtown has fallen to 3
percent, that could change if there is a glut of suburban space on the market,
Kennedy said.

When it comes to sales of office properties, the days of buildings selling for
upwards of $200 a square foot may be over. Many real estate investment trusts,
which once clamored for office buildings , now are selling their assets, not
buying new properties.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Construction, like this project at MoPac Boulevard and Barton Skyway,
has been a common sight as the Austin area has boomed in the '90s, but
uncertainty is clouding the commercial real estate outlook for 1999.

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman


                              177 of 177 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 30, 1998

Murderers should pay the ultimate penalty

BYLINE: William 'Rusty' Hubbarth

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 596 words


The American-Statesman's recent editorials have been rather elementary pieces of
standard anti-death penalty propaganda.

The proposed "option" of sentencing a person convicted of capital murder to life
without parole is an option that is misleading and filled with deception and
uncertainty. One needs only look to the Furman decision -- the prime reason
Kenneth McDuff was free to commit his murderous rampage in Central Texas -- to
see that anything less than execution is a variable that can be affected by
factors such as bureaucratic necessity and a change in judicial climate. The
jury that sentenced McDuff to death in 1966 was convinced that the sentence was
absolute.

There have been people whose death sentences were reversed on an eventual
finding of innocence. The system worked in those cases. A death case is given
more scrutiny, both during the trial stage and the appellate reviews, than any
other form of legal proceeding. The exceptions referenced in the editorials are
just that: exceptions.

A district attorney weighs numerous factors before seeking the death penalty,
and the decision is not reached lightly or capriciously. A capital murder trial
is expensive and extensive, and to commit the resources necessary to get a
conviction and sentence of death requires a very strong commitment on the part
of the prosecutor. There is no such vehicle as the "Texas death express" cited
in the editorial.

The concept of having a life without parole sentence has only gained recent
popularity in Texas because of the sympathetic Karla Faye Tucker. It is obvious
that bills such as the one filed by Sen. Eddie Lucio, D-Brownsville, are only a
knee-jerk response to the execution of Tucker, who was unquestionably guilty. A
Texas jury is given two chances to find a person:

A. Guilty of capital murder, as opposed to a lesser included offense; and

B. Having considered all mitigating factors, sentenced the convicted murderer to
execution.

In Tucker's case, the governor and the Board of Pardons and Paroles had the
opportunity to recommend the sentence be commuted to life, six months or any
alternate sentence felt to be appropriate, up to and including Tucker being
released for time served. The lack of a life without parole option has never
been indicated as a determinative factor in commutation proceedings.

The editorials are deliberately misleading in the insinuation that this lack of
the sentencing or commutation option was the reason Tucker was executed,
regardless of how sympathetic a persona she was able to portray.

The members of the Board of Pardons and Paroles who voted to deny clemency are
to be commended for their courage in the face of pressure from a number of
different factions with various agendas. Tucker and McDuff were convicted of
capital murder and were executed pursuant to the laws of the State of Texas. Any
sympathy should be directed toward the surviving family members of the victims.
Any compassion wasted upon those who have been rightfully convicted of heinous
and horrible crimes that constitute capital murder is naive and cruel.

The inmates on death row are there for one purpose: to be put to death for their
crimes. To push for any form of sentencing that would detract from the paying of
the ultimate penalty for those convicted of capital murder is naive and
insensitive.

Hubbarth is an Austin attorney and former counsel to the Pardons and Paroles
Division of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. He is vice president of
Justice For All, a criminal justice reform organizaton.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 The Austin American-Statesman
