
                               1 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            September 5, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Is global climate change linked to shift in illnesses?

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 883 words


This summer, an outbreak of typhus has left 16 Travis County residents with the
flea-borne illness; 14 others are suspected of having the disease. In recent
years, whooping cough and West Nile virus have also plagued Central Texas.

Are the outbreaks stand-alone events, each with its own explanation? Or, with
hot summers bearing down on the state, are these signals of broader changes in
disease patterns driven by a warming climate?

Epidemiologists differ on how much blame for illness can be laid on the
overarching phenomenon of global warming. Some experts point out that
improvements in sanitation and technological advances have gone far in
controlling epidemics. But for at least a decade, scientists -- steering clear
of laying down specifics - have predicted that climate change will ultimately
shift disease patterns in the state.

"Climate change is altering the distribution, incidence and intensity of animal
and plant pests and diseases," according to a June report from the Food and
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations . Scientists say the globe has
warmed about 1.1 degrees Fahrenheit over the past year, though not uniformly.

A 1997 federal Environmental Protection Agency report on Texas and climate
change noted, "Warming and other climate changes may expand the habitat and
infectivity of disease-carrying insects, thus increasing the potential for
transmission of diseases such as malaria and dengue fever."

Malaria, a potentially fatal mosquito-borne parasite infection that causes
flulike symptoms, was eradicated in the United States in the early 1950s. But
dengue fever, a potentially fatal viral infection carried by mosquitoes, is
suspected of sickening 3,806 people from 1977 to 2004 in the United States. West
Nile is also carried by mosquitoes, but typhus, a bacterial infection
characterized by high fever, can be borne by lice or fleas.

Harvard University professor Paul Epstein wrote in the New England Journal of
Medicine in 2005: "Mosquitoes, which can carry many diseases, are very sensitive
to temperature changes. Warming of their environment - within their viable range
- boosts their rates of reproduction and the number of blood meals they take,
prolongs their breeding season and shortens the maturation period for the
microbes they disperse."

Chiming in, the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology and researchers
with the University of Texas-Dallas and the UT Southwestern Medical School
separately have said warming trends are making allergies worse and increasing
the number of those with kidney stone disease.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are still figuring out what
strain of typhus has stricken Travis County residents, according to Carole
Barasch , a spokeswoman for the Austin/Travis County Health and Human Services
Department .

She said that in a face-to-face meeting last month , federal officials asked
Travis County and officials at the Texas Department of State Health Services
questions about summer weather conditions and wondered whether animals bearing
fleas that carry the disease might be straying into the Austin area seeking new
water sources.

But like charting the incidence of hurricanes, another controversial indicator
of changing climate, single outbreaks of disease may have nothing to do with the
overall changing climate. As long ago as 1982 and as far north as Comanche
County, there was an outbreak of typhus, according to the CDC.

"I think a lot of it is hype," Robert Tesh , an epidemiologist at the UT Medical
Branch in Galveston, said of papers that draw a link between climate change and
outbreaks. "There are major changes occurring in disease patterns, but I don't
think climate has much to do with it. More often, it's changes in land use or
population density."

Erecting dams in dry areas, which encourages the breeding of disease-bearing
mosquitoes, or building a home in a forest, which can bring people near deer
ticks, are much more likely to lead to outbreaks, according to Tesh.

And areas that have disease-bearing mosquitoes are not necessarily experiencing
outbreaks of dengue fever, Tesh said, because air conditioning, screened-in
windows and regular garbage collection save many in South Texas from the
disease.

"Vectors can move (because of a changing climate), but you need a breakdown in
something like sanitation," he said.

It may also be too early with some emerging infectious diseases, like West Nile
virus, to say how long-term climate changes affect the spread of disease.

Statistics show that, if anything, instances of West Nile virus disease appear
to be largely under control since its emergence in Texas a half-dozen years ago.
Heightened mosquito control, and changes from year to year in weather are among
the reasons West Nile virus has not been increasing, according to Emily Palmer,
a spokeswoman for the Department of State Health Services.

She said many Texans have also built up an immunity to the disease since it has
become widespread in the state.

"We're dealing with pretty small time scales to make generalizations and
understand patterns," said Emily Zielinski-Gutierrez , a behavioral scientist at
the CDC who studies diseases spread by fleas, ticks or mosquitoes.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

Additional material from staff writer Mary Ann Roser.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2008



CORRECTION: * A Page One article Friday about possible connections between
global warming and increased incidence of illnesses misstated the period during
which scientists say the Earth has warmed at least 1.1 degrees Fahrenheit. That
occurred over the past century.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

How do we cut the oil cord?

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 2088 words


With oil topping $120 a barrel , the U.S. military bogged down in the Middle
East and climate change a growing cause of anxiety for many Americans, the
phrase "energy independence" is on the lips of the presidential candidates. Two
authors, each with local ties, have recently published books with very different
takes on the issue.

S. David Freeman, 82, was head of the Lower Colorado River Authority from 1986
to 1990 and ran the Tennessee Valley Authority from 1978 to 1981. He now serves
as president of the board that oversees the Port of Los Angeles and is the
author of "Winning Our Energy Independence: An Energy Insider Shows How."

Austin journalist Robert Bryce, 47, is managing editor of Energy Tribune and a
contributing writer for the Texas Observer. He is the author of "Gusher of Lies:
The Dangerous Delusions of 'Energy Independence.'"

I recently moderated a debate between them. What follows is an abridged and
edited version of their heated discussion.

Austin American-Statesman: Are these two books diametrically opposed? One, for
example, promotes more government intervention in energy matters; the other,
less.

S. David Freeman: I would describe my book as "Yes, we can" and his book as
"There really isn't a problem, but if there is one, no, we can't." But, having
said that, I think we fundamentally agree on ethanol and, for different reasons,
we fundamentally agree about nuclear power.

Robert Bryce: I'm glad we agree on ethanol because, clearly, ethanol is the
longest running robbery of American taxpayers in U.S. history.

But, I think, for most other issues, we do disagree. I like Mr. Freeman. I've
known him for a long time; I respect his history in the business. But one of the
problems that we've had in the energy market is too much government
intervention. If you look at the ethanol subsidies, the ethanol mandates today,
it's clear that this is an example of government meddling in the energy market
having deleterious effects: higher food prices, worsening air quality. I can
give you a long list.

As far as nuclear power, I think that if we are going to have a policy that says
CO2 is bad, we don't have many other ways to add large increments of base-load
power in a relatively short amount of time at a relatively agreeable cost. The
key word there being "relatively."

Freeman: He couldn't be more wrong about nuclear power. You can't build a
nuclear power plant in four, five, six years, and they will cost as much as a
solar thermal plant on a life-cycle basis. And the idea of building a
radioactive factory in America in an age of terror just doesn't make any sense.
People can steal and make bombs out of plutonium.

I mean, we tried nuclear power. Believe me, I know. I ran the Tennessee Valley
Authority, and it has $20 billion of debt - nuclear debt from plants that just
couldn't make it economically.

And the whole idea that solar power, as he says in his book, is a 1 percent
solution, is a blasphemy. The major source of energy on this Earth is the sun.
And we have the technology today to harness it and meet all of our energy needs,
not even counting the wind. The main problem with my good friend's book is it's
hopeless. (Bryce chuckles.)

Mr. Bryce, you write in your book that government has to get out of the energy
game, yet you advocate nuclear power, which has gotten a lot of government help.
How do you reconcile those positions?

Bryce: Just one point quickly, and that is, I don't think my book is hopeless.
My book is realistic. The idea that we're suddenly, or even over two or three
decades, going to quit using oil and transition to a nonfossil fuel or noncarbon
economy is just not realistic by any measure.

To your question about nuclear power: Agreed, there's no question that there's
going to be government intervention when it comes to nuclear power. There has to
be, because of the nuclear waste issue. And granted, I accept the idea that
waste is a problem. But we have to pick our poison "

Freeman: No, that's just the point: We don't have to pick our poison -

Bryce: No, we do have to pick our poison. It's either CO2 -

Freeman: We have energy sources that are not poisonous that we need to harness -

Bryce: No matter how much solar we have, how much wind we have, we're still
going to have conventional power plants. So, the point is, you pick your poison:
Are you going to agree that we're going to have increased CO2 in the atmosphere
from coal-, natural gas-, fossil- or fuel oil-powered electric plants, or are we
going to use nuclear? The issue is, what's the scale? We have one one-millionth
of the volume of waste from the nuclear power sector, or a million times that
volume in CO2 that goes up into the atmosphere. We can't control it once it gets
up there. We can control the waste that we have here on the planet.

Freeman: Today, in California, there are applications for renewable projects
that equal the size of the entire electric system in California. This country is
on the verge of a renewable revolution, in a sense, if we just muster the
willpower and the can-do attitude to make it happen. Thanks to climate change,
there is a serious risk of life on Earth being altered in an irreparable manner
if we continue to emit carbon. And when you have a risk as a businessman, you
take out an insurance policy. The insurance policy is to move away from fossil
fuels to utilize the power of the sun and the wind. We have the technology;
nobody can say that it can't be done. This is an issue that is really deadly
serious. And it can't be washed away by saying, "I'm realistic." In your own
book, you admit that we're over there in the Middle East shedding blood because
of our dependence on oil. And yet you refuse to accept the fact that we can do
better.

Mr. Bryce, shouldn't environmental costs be taken into account when deciding how
costly energy is?

Bryce: Well, of course. I mean, it depends on who you are. If you're living in
rural Pakistan, rural China, rural India, and you have no electricity, I think
climate change is one of the least important worries for those people. There are
3 billion people in the five most populous countries, not counting the U.S.:
China, India, Indonesia, Brazil and Pakistan. On average, those 3 billion people
in those five countries use one-tenth as much energy per capita as we do in the
U.S. (but those numbers are going up). We can use less energy in the U.S.; the
rest of the world is using more.

Mr. Freeman lays out a pretty nice picture of what we can achieve if we raise
fuel economy standards and close down older power plants. What is 'dangerous'
about these suggestions?

Bryce: It's blackouts. Look, I'm all for solar; I'm all for wind. I have 3,200
watts of solar panels on the roof of my house here in Austin. I like it. They
give me a nice, warm fuzzy; they provide about a third of the electricity that
my family and I use. But the sun doesn't shine at night, and the wind doesn't
blow all the time. Unless or until we have a large-scale system that can store
large amounts of electricity, solar and wind will remain minor players overall
because they cannot be counted on to provide base-load power, and that's where
the increase is occurring.

When I talk with Texas lawmakers, they often say, look, why should we slap
regulations on industry to cut carbon dioxide emissions when China is building a
coal-fired power plant every week. What do you say to them?

Freeman: America is the leader in the field of energy. If America goes down the
road (of turning to solar, wind and natural gas), China and other countries will
follow. We have no right to be preaching to the Chinese when they're simply
doing what we continue to do.

In terms of restrictions on the utility industry, we're finding that the most
cost-effective investments by the utilities are in energy efficiency. With
investments that are being made in California in energy efficiency, we've
reduced the rate of electric growth way below the rate of (gross national
product) growth. We now have 20 percent renewables as our goal for 2010, and
we're going to make it. The path has been laid out in my book. It is eminently
doable, and it's beginning to happen.

Bryce: The market is going in the right direction. All of the things Mr. Freeman
is discussing mean higher prices for consumers. The reason China and India and
the other countries are not using solar and wind is it's too expensive. They're
using their domestic coal because it's the resource they have. They're not using
very significant amounts of imported liquefied natural gas because it's more
expensive. Yes, they are using some; yes, they are moving toward more gas. That
is ultimately the right direction, and I am fully in favor of using more natural
gas. The market is moving there without government intervention. "

Freeman: The price of energy does not reflect its cost. The marketplace is
giving us the wrong answer. To the average consumer who has to pay the tax bill
for defending our lifeline in the Middle East, who has to pay the health bill
caused by the epidemics of asthma, coal - which is the cheapest in the
marketplace - is the most expensive. The price of electricity does not include
all of the costs to the consumer. It is giving us the wrong idea. That's why
government intervention in the form of tax credits for the clean stuff and
eliminating tax breaks for the poisons is the public policy that I'm advocating
in my book. And don't think for a second that the Chinese will not follow the
examples that we set in this country, because that's what they're doing right
now.

Bryce: Well, they will, ultimately, but it's always going to be about price. We
cannot move to renewables or wind at an equitable price unless or until these
solutions become economic. We have to let the marketplace work, allow the
companies to make the innovations that they need to have. That's happening now.
The price per kilowatt hour of solar power is falling, but it is still three to
four times higher than that of the traditional plants that we've been using.

Do you think any of the presidential candidates' proposals is particularly
attractive?

Freeman: I think all of them understand the enormity of the problem. They do not
have solution packages commensurate with the enormity of the problem, but I
think they're educable.

Bryce: They're all spouting the same nonsense about energy independence. Look,
we live in a global market. It's a global marketplace in everything from iPods
to fresh flowers, to beer, to bottled water, to video cameras, to lights, to
cell phones. The energy market is among the most global of any of the
commodities. The idea that we're going to divorce ourselves from the global
energy market - it's a $5 trillion-a-year business - is ludicrous on its face,
and to say so is misleading the American public.

What we're seeing with the ethanol situation is rapidly rising food prices all
over the world in large part because of this rhetoric of energy independence
that's being pushed by all the presidential candidates and I think a lot of
irresponsible politicos who say, "Oh, yeah, we can be free of oil; we're going
to quit using oil." We're not.

Freeman: Mr. Bryce somehow is trying to paint me as an isolationist. And my book
is an attempt to have this country lead the world away from fossil fuels. I am
not so naive as to think that if America did it all by itself, it's going to
solve the global warming problems. But we are the leader. The plain truth of the
matter is that there is now an opportunity for leadership in this world by the
United States of America. The photovoltaic cell (for example) is not a product
of the marketplace; it's a product of the space program that our government put
in place.

Mr. Freeman makes the point in his book that wind and solar power are not
subject to inflation. Once you put the generator on the ground, whether it's a
solar panel or a windmill, then the source of energy is free. What do you think
of that argument? That seems compelling on the face of it.

Bryce: It's always going to be about the stochastic nature of wind and solar.
Unless or until we come up with a compact, affordable system that can store
large amounts of electricity, wind and solar will not be viable for large
segments of the electric market.

Let's create the superbattery prize. The superbattery is the silver bullet.
Solar and wind suddenly become much more viable, and it allows electric
utilities to save huge amounts of energy. That's the key breakthrough.

Freeman: You do have hope after all.

aprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 23, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Austin's survey on global warming is a breath of hot air

BYLINE: John Kelso AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 460 words


The City of Austin would have done the public a big swinging favor if it had
given several needy people new air conditioners instead of wasting $20,000 on a
global warming opinion survey.

In a phone questionnaire given to 400 people, it was found that Austinites are
more likely to combat global warming by making sure their tires have enough air
in them than investing in, say, solar panels.

The survey found that the reason for this is that most Austinites said a big
obstacle to helping save the planet was a lack of money to pay for things like
solar panels.

So instead of sinking $20,000 into a survey to find out what people think about
global warming, take some poor guy out to Howdy Honda and buy him a hybrid. And
tell him to wear loose-fitting clothing. That always helps.

Besides, isn't all this talk about global warming just raising the air
temperature and making it that much hotter? If the city would just shut up,
things might cool off around here in August before 11 at night.

In the survey, paid for by Austin Energy , 89 percent said Austinites will be
affected by climate change. And the other 11 percent think the eggs are laid by
the Easter Bunny?

Me? I think global warming is the cure to Austin's growth and traffic problems.
Have you noticed how hot it gets in the summer? Have you also noticed that the
farther north you drive, the cooler it gets? So if about half of you newbies to
town would drive up to Minneapolis and buy a condo there instead of here, you'll
fight global warming and make it possible for me to find a freakin' parking
place in the Warehouse District .

If half the people in this town would go to, say, Montana and stay there, I
figure we could reduce our local carbon footprint from a size 11 to a women's 5.

It's not that I'm not environmentally involved. I use compact fluorescents, and
I mow my lawn with an electric mower. However, I will admit that I'm against
low-flush toilets. Why? I'm afraid if I tried to flush this survey down one of
those things, it'd get clogged. And I'd have to call a plumber. And he'd
increase the size of the hole in the ozone layer by driving to my house.

One survey question that I thought was particularly telling: In your opinion,
what's the difference between global warming and climate change?

I can answer that easily enough. "Global warming" is more likely to show up in a
T-shirt slogan because it sounds more menacing than "climate change." If there's
some wheat grass aficionado protesting carbon emissions in front of the Capitol,
his shirt is more likely to say "global warming" than "climate change."

Other than that, they're the same thing. It's all about the marketing.

John Kelso's column appears on Sundays,

Tuesdays and Fridays. Contact him at 445-3606

or jkelso@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bill McKibben is just getting warmed up

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. J05

LENGTH: 1208 words


Bill McKibben, the 47-year-old nature writer, environmental smart guy and
Vermonter, has a trio of books hitting the shelves in quick succession: "The
Bill McKibben Reader" and the paperback reissue of last year's "Deep Economy"
arrived Tuesday; on April 22, Earth Day, the 997-page, McKibben-edited "American
Earth: Environmental Writing Since Thoreau" will weigh down shelves across the
country. We chatted by phone in late February.

Austin American-Statesman: Do you like going on book tours?

Bill McKibben: I do, because they have turned, in the last 18 months, for me,
into organizing tours. We did this big Step It Up thing last year, with 2,000
demonstrations around the country. This year we're about to launch an
international organizing campaign around climate change. And one of the reasons
I'm so excited about coming to South by Southwest Interactive is because those
are the people we need. This is going to be one of the first real open-source,
international grass-roots campaigns, and we need lots of smart thinking from
just the sort of people I hope are going to be in the audience.

You're giving a talk called 'Building a Worldwide Climate Movement.' Is that
what this is about?

I'm going to talk about a new campaign we're calling 350. There will be a Web
site at 350.org. 350 is the amount of carbon dioxide measured in parts per
million that science is now telling us is the safe upper limit for the
atmosphere. So it's a very arcane number, and yet it's probably the most
important number for every person in the world to know, and we're going to try
to figure out ways to get it out into the information bloodstream of the planet
as many ways as we can figure out.

How many parts per million of carbon dioxide are in the atmosphere today?

Three hundred eighty-five, right now. It's like going to the doctor and he says
your cholesterol is too high. So it doesn't mean you keel over dead tomorrow,
but it does mean, you know, no more cheese.

'American Earth' spans centuries. Is environmental writing going to be different
this century than the last one? Is it going to be more incumbent on
environmental writers to be organizers?

I hope this is the last anthology of environmental writing anyone puts together.
The environment needs to become not another problem on a list of problems. It's
going to have to pretty much become a lens through which we look at the world,
like economics has been the last hundred years. All the environmental writers I
know are busy writing and organizing. But I think one of the things that's
happening, as a result of reality in the world encroaching, is that our work is
being seen less as a kind of cul-de-sac, a small corner of American writing and
thought, and more as the central preoccupation it needs to become. The success
of (Michael Pollan's) "Omnivore's Dilemma" is a good sign.

Do you have time to write or think about things other than global warming?

I wrote the first book for a general audience about global warming back in 1989,
and I've been following it since. The good thing about global warming as a topic
is that it's so huge that anything you write bears deeply on it. We have to be a
little careful, because the environmental movement is morphing into the global
warming movement. The problem is so huge that on the one hand that's a good
thing, but on the other hand, we have to be careful that we don't neglect the
enormous number of somewhat smaller environmental issues that still need a lot
of work.

As in other parts of the country, there's a resurgence of nuclear power here in
Texas. Given your anxieties about global warming, should nuclear power be part
of the mix?

It's clearly a source of lower carbon power. Given what we understand about
climate change, the relative risks posed by coal and uranium have shifted.
Opening a new coal-fired power plant is now a guarantee of unacceptable damage -
not a risk, but a guarantee. That said, aside from all the things like melting
down and what you do with the waste, and terrorists, the other real risk that
comes with nuclear power is the opportunity cost. It's way too expensive.
Anything other than a complete government-subsidized operation, we wouldn't do
it. Give me $6 billion or whatever you're charging at the moment for a new
nuclear reactor and I can show you ten ways to get twice the carbon bang for the
buck. " The natural flow right now of energy markets is going to be much more in
the direction of what the engineers call distributive generation, where we stop
having as many huge, centralized plants, and are generating power much closer to
where it's consumed in different ways. Some of those will be much more
ecologically benign. There seems to be a nuclear rush on in Texas, but there
also seems to be a wind rush on in Texas. Those technologies, given a level
playing field, will do better.

Do you think any of the top-of-the-tickets get the climate change issue?

(John) McCain got climate change better than the rest of the Republicans six or
seven years ago, but his understanding does not seem to have evolved since then.
His position is good for a Republican in 2002, but not for a president in 2009.
(Barack) Obama has really taken on this issue like no one at the top in American
political history has taken it on. Along with the war in Iraq and somehow
rescuing our economy, this is going to be one of the three central issues of his
presidency.

In 'The Bill McKibben Reader,' you write, 'Eating (locally) is precisely how
almost every human being ate until very recently, and how most people in the
world still do eat today.' Has the country moved past the point where mass
eating on a local scale is really possible? Unlike Vermont, Texas has far-flung
towns in areas built by highways that depend on transportation for their food.

We've built a difficult infrastructure in a lot of ways " building huge suburbs
so oil-dependent in every way that it's going to be a bit of a shock and
difficult to retrofit. But we're going to have to figure out how. Two-thirds of
the food in this country is grown adjacent to cities. It's just at the moment it
disappears right into the commodity food stream. We can reorient our
agriculture, and we can do it quickly, when we reorganize demand. That's why the
spread of farmers' markets is so interesting. The same way, in the old days, the
mercantilist or the imperialist used to say, "Trade follows the flag,"
increasingly, decent, local agriculture follows the farmers' market. We're all
about trajectory. If we spend the next 25 years slowly reeling in supply lines
instead of flinging them out, that'll be fine.

You have a lot of pages of print about to get published. Will it be on recycled
paper?

As far as I know, they're all on recycled paper. At least that's what I keep
asking people to do.

Asher Price covers environmental issues for the American-Statesman.
asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

Bill McKibben
 What: SXSW Interactive talk, 'Building a Worldwide Climate Movement'
 When: 3:30 p.m. Monday
 Where: Austin Convention Center, 500 E. Cesar Chavez St., Room 19AB
 Information: http://2008.sxsw.com/interactive/
 What: Discussion of McKibben's book 'Deep Economy'
 When: 6:30 p.m. Monday
 Where: Scholz Garten, 1607 San Jacinto Blvd.
 Information: 472-5050



LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 897 words


Out on a limb

Almost every year, there are widespread power outages because trees fall on
power lines during a storm. It should be obvious that Austin Energy's tree
trimming plan is not getting the job done.

I ride around town on a recumbent bike that allows me to look up and see trees
under power lines. Two summers ago, I e-mailed Austin Energy about some places
that needed trimming. The reply was that unless I was the homeowner they would
not do anything. In other words: "Mind your own business."

Near the kickball fields along Far West Boulevard, a tree branch has completely
grown around a lower power line, not a guy wire.

I urge all property owners to report trees in contact with power lines before
someone dies. Homeowners also have a duty not to plant or allow trees to grow
under power lines.

JERRY WHITEAKER

wudturner@earthlink.net

Austin

Costly climate change

Re: May 12 commentary "Texans' jobs depend on climate change policy"

Tony Bennett raises the specter of statewide job losses to discourage Texans
from supporting the Climate Security Act.

However, the National Association of Manufacturers has been widely criticized by
economists for its misleading interpretation of the data. In fact, the company
contracted to do the analysis has distanced itself from NAM's conclusions.

Independent studies conducted by MIT, Duke University, the Environmental
Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy concluded that America's
economy will continue to grow robustly after this legislation is passed.

For Central Texas, climate change will likely mean deeper, more intense droughts
as well as an increase in severe storms and flash flooding.

Scientists are telling us that we can avoid the worst by cutting global warming
pollution by 2 percent a year. The Climate Security Act will achieve that goal
without hurting the economy.

SUSAN KADERKA

Regional executive director,

National Wildlife Federation's

Gulf States Natural Resource Center

kaderka@nwf.org

Austin

Memories of '59

The success of the opening of the Long Center for the Performing Arts has
brought back many memories of the time when Palmer Auditorium was dedicated in
1959.

My husband was president of the Austin Jaycees that year. This group was made up
of fine young men who gave freely of their time to promote Austin and assist
local charitable groups.

The headline acts for the Palmer opening were Jack and Shirley Jones and Conway
Twitty and his country-western group. Unfortunately, no one had to worry about
parking even though the headliners were well-known and performed beautifully and
the cost of the tickets was not excessive.

Austin simply was not ready to come out and support functions like that.

MARJORIE L. HEATON

marted@swbell.net

Cedar Park

A big-city chief, please

Re: "Finding a fire chief that's a fit for Austin" (May 9 editorial):

I think the American-Statesman and city leadership need to realize that this is
a big city, and a chief with knowledge and experience with big-city issues is
vital.

Concentrating on diversity - which the department seems to be doing everything
it can to address short of dragging people in off of the street and pinning
badges on them - or where firefighters live is not productive.

Higher density, decaying and inadequate facilities and many other big-city
concerns should be the focus, and the city needs a chief with the ability to
address these issues.

ROB HAYDEN

Austin

No help

Many recent news stories talk about the cost of gasoline soaring and how
consumers continue to get "hosed at the pump."

Though there are agencies protecting us from poison foods, bad prescription
drugs, mad cows, etc., it made me wonder: Isn't there some agency that is
supposed to protect citizens from getting hosed at the pump?

GLEN McKENZIE

Cedar Park

Obama's white vote

In response to "White votes elude Obama" (April 24), I knew there would come a
time when it would be said out loud that "Obama can't win because he is black."
Well, I want you to know that I am a 77-year-old white woman who says, "Yes, he
can."

My five children, 11 grandchildren and many friends are all for Obama. I know
white Republicans who are going to vote for him, too.

The man is exceptional, and this country needs him. Our nation need not be
defined by racial prejudice.

JOYCE SLOAN

Austin

No to bogus science

Re: "Creationist school's degree plan is rejected by state panel" (April 24
article).

I am writing to congratulate Higher Education Commissioner Raymund Paredes on
his clearly expressed decision to not allow a master's degree in science to be
offered based on creationism. I hope his decision sticks for now and for all
time.

I went to Google and typed in "Flat Earth Society." Not only does the society
still exist, but it has a Web site in which it claims that the Earth is not
round but flat. If higher education in Texas were to include creationism as a
supposedly scientific subject, how could the flat-earthers be excluded?

I respect the right of everyone to have and express opinions, but we need not
pay equal attention to the contents of different opinions.

We need better, not bogus, science in our classrooms.

PAUL DEISLER

Austin

Threat of boycott

How dare you publish a commentary complimenting the United States? Any more like
"Give credit where it's due" by Janet Albrechtsen (May 15) and you will be
boycotted by the Liberal Deep Thinkers Society of Austin.

MILTON D. BEHRENS

MBehrens1@austin.rr.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              March 3, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Will LCRA be prepared for severe drought?

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 964 words


The news from around the nation has been grim: Lake Mead, the reservoir that
sustains Phoenix and Las Vegas, could dry up in the next 13 years. Lake Lanier,
Atlanta's main source of drinking water, is perilously low, and there is no end
in sight for the drought that has seized the Southeast.

Could Central Texas find itself in a similar situation? The Lower Colorado River
Authority says no. But some of the factors that have caused water crises in
Arizona and Georgia - rampant growth, exceptional drought, increasing reliance
on water from lakes and rivers - are at play here.

It is impossible to say, to the drop, just how much water flows through the
Colorado River every day. What matters to the people who manage that water is
how much they can count on during the driest of times - the worst drought.

In the water business, this is called firm water. Although Austin has its own
long-established rights to the Colorado River, it also purchases firm water from
the LCRA.

Calculating firm water is tricky: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, for example,
relied for years on drought records from the Dust Bowl years of the 1930s to
calculate baseline water supplies in a couple of North Carolina lakes. But in
2007, the drought in the Southeast exceeded that worst "drought of record."

The LCRA, like all river authorities, uses complicated modeling algorithms to
predict river flow during drought. Those water availability models, or WAMs as
they are known in hydrological parlance, determine how much water the river
authority can commit to one of the fastest-growing regions of Texas.

The forecasts are not foolproof. For one, they're based on a benchmark barely a
half-century old: the seven-year drought Texas experienced in the 1950s. For
another, they typically don't take into account long-term predictions of climate
change. Finally, the calculations might be skewed by a policy of selling as much
water as possible.

Though the LCRA insists that its water models are independent of such policy
pressures, others disagree.

"The general manager is balancing lawyers and hydrologists and an economic
development officer, and he has to be as optimistic as possible," said Kent
Butler, who teaches water resource planning at the University of Texas and was
LCRA water resources director in the late 1980s.

Crunching the numbers

State forecasts suggest that the 14-county Lower Colorado River basin will grow
by 2.5 million people over the next 45 years. Cities' demand for water will
double, with the river satisfying most of that demand. The latest population
estimates in the 2007 water plan are already running behind actual population
growth - a defect the LCRA says it will try to correct by crunching its own
population numbers.

The LCRA says it would never be as unprepared for drought as states in the
Southeast were.

Last April, the agency convened a meeting of water planners from California and
Arizona, as well as from El Paso, to talk about drought preparedness.

"Those eastern states are used to a wetter climate," said Mark Jordan, the
LCRA's river operations manager. During hard times in the West, river managers
secure more water for firm customers by systematically cutting off
"interruptible" users , who pay less because their water supply is not
guaranteed. On the Lower Colorado, these are chiefly rice farmers near the Gulf
Coast.

Although the farmers use more water in a given year than Austin, their usage has
declined as agricultural acreage shrinks. The LCRA says that within decades - it
doesn't specify how many - downriver farmers will be phased out as customers, to
be replaced by municipal and industrial users.

Early last year, before the drought broke, the river authority told the farmers
that their water would probably be curtailed for the first time ever. Should
Central Texas exceed the 1950s drought of record, the LCRA plans to take a page
from Alabama and Georgia's book. It will ask cities to voluntarily cut back
their water use - and if that doesn't work, force them to.

Says Butler: "If you get to an extreme, record-breaking drought, the assumption
is draconian measures. And no one wants to talk about draconian measures in
peacetime."

The new normal

Computer simulations of various rainfall scenarios show that the LCRA could
supply its water customers even in a drought as bad as the one that plagued
Texas in the 1950s, says James Kowis, the agency's manager of water supply
planning.

The problem is, Central Texas might be in for far worse droughts.

In a University of Arkansas tree ring analysis published in 2006 by the
Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority, author Malcolm Cleaveland found that since
1648, "there may have been periods when drought was more protracted and the
impact might have been considerably worse. " It would appear unwise for civil
authorities to assume that the 1950s drought represents the worst-case
scenario."

A drought that hit Texas from 1856 to 1865 was more severe, said Richard Seager
, a senior research scientist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth
Observatory.

Last year, Seager co-wrote an article for Science magazine predicting that the
levels of aridity seen in the Dust Bowl and 1950s droughts "will become the new
climatology of the American Southwest." The wet spells that allow river systems
to recover from drought will grow shorter, he said, thus giving the lie to all
water models based on 20th century data.

"There's going to be a new mean climate," Seager said.

An article in last month's Science, authored by U.S. Geological Survey
climatologists and other scientists from around the world, says a basic
principle of water management - the idea that natural systems fluctuate within
certain known limits - is rapidly becoming useless because of climate change.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2008



CORRECTION: * On Monday's Page A6, a story and photo caption incorrectly said
that the Phoenix area is supplied with water from Lake Mead, a Colorado River
reservoir in Arizona. The Phoenix area receives most of its water from canal
systems fed by the Salt River and Colorado River.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 2, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

World powers unsure if U.S. will agree to emissions limits

BYLINE: Bob Keefe WEST COAST BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 298 words


HONOLULU - Leaders of some of the world's biggest economies are pushing for an
international treaty that could require large countries to cut their greenhouse
gas emissions in half by 2050 in the fight against global warming.

But whether the United States - the world's biggest polluter by most measures -
will agree to such stringent measures remains unclear

After two days of closed-door meetings at an international summit on climate
change, negotiators from the world's 17 biggest economies did not set any firm
targets for cutting global greenhouse gas emissions.

However, they did agree to keep working toward such goals as they develop a new
international treaty on climate change by the end of next year.

"There are some positions (that) are not shared by everyone," Matthias Machnig ,
secretary of Germany's ministry for the environment, said after the meetings.
"But one thing is very clear: We all have a responsibility because the public
wants action. The public wants answers."

The European Union, along with Canada and Japan, wants the world's biggest
economies to cut emissions by 50 percent by 2050 and also set midterm goals to
reduce emissions by 25 percent to 40 percent by 2020.

To reach such goals, countries would have to wean themselves off of coal and
oil, develop new energy technologies, dramatically increase energy conservation
measures and possibly expand the use of nuclear power. Ultimately, that could
lead to higher energy prices for consumers and tougher environmental regulations
for companies.

The Bush administration has opposed emission limits. But after wrapping up the
Hawaii meeting , Jim Connaughton , chairman of the White House Council on
Environmental Quality, said the U.S. was giving "serious consideration" to the
latest proposals.

bkeefe@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Time to take global warming seriously

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman Editorial AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 418 words


As the U.S. Senate opens debate this week on major legislation to limit
greenhouse gas emissions, Americans are being warned that any such attempt will
wreck the economy - a scary message at a time when the economy is coughing
pretty hard already. Americans, however, should be deeply skeptical; we've heard
those kind of warnings before.

The centerpiece proposal, the Lieberman-Warner Climate Security Act, is a "cap
and trade" bill that would impose caps on the amount of greenhouse emissions a
company could emit. A company that couldn't meet its cap could purchase credits
to exceed it, either through a government auction or by buying credits from
another company that was operating under its cap.

Such a system would require every company to start considering the cost of
emitting greenhouse gases - something few do now. Instead, today, that cost is
shifted to all society, and to our descendants, in the form of global warming
that scientists warn is causing some major shifts in our climate.

Of course, the costs of such a program ultimately would be passed on to
consumers in the form of higher prices for products and services. In that way,
all of us start paying the bill for global warming, as we should.

But we should reap benefits, too, in the form of more renewable and less
polluting forms of energy generation and by not playing careless god, or the
devil, with our climate.

Some major corporations want a cap-and-trade program because they figure
government-imposed limits are inevitable and they want to know sooner, not
later, what the rules will be. And some business interests would prefer those
rules be enacted during a Republican administration, rather than risk action by
a Democratic president and a Democratic Congress that could take control in
January.

But some predict doom.

Of course, business groups have predicted doom for the American economy any time
major air legislation has been proposed, be it in the 1960s when the first major
anti-smog laws were passed or the 1980s when Congress recognized the damage
being done by acid rain.

The proposed cap-and-trade legislation before the Senate is not some blue-sky
idealism but a practical response to a serious threat to our climate caused by
continually pouring greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.

Yes, the rest of the world is contributing to the problem, and China and India's
rapid economic growth is making a bad problem worse. But we cannot demand that
they do something until we demonstrate that we, too, are willing to act.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Perry: Emission caps could ruin economy

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 607 words


Federal caps on greenhouse gas carbon dioxide emissions would suffocate Texas'
economy, Gov. Rick Perry said Tuesday as the state tries to fend off such
limits.

The caps are a threat that could "run this nation's strongest economy right off
the tracks and into the ditch," Perry said at a news conference.

The news conference came as Perry submitted a report to the federal
Environmental Protection Agency, which is considering placing regulations on the
greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.

The report says that by slapping costs on businesses, such regulations would
"create extreme economic hardships, regulatory uncertainty, and immeasurable
standards."

But some state environmentalists and lawmakers say Texas, the state with the
highest carbon dioxide emissions, should start working with federal regulators
to help its businesses before Washington decides what steps to take.

Tuesday's news conference, during which state leaders took several shots at
Washington, highlights how the upcoming change of presidential administrations
has transformed the relationship between Austin and Washington. With President
George W. Bush in power, Texas and federal environmental regulators were in
step, keen to limit rules. But President-elect Barack Obama, supported by
Democratic majorities in Congress, has signaled that he wants to cap greenhouse
gas emissions.

"The idea that just because there's been an administrative change and some would
say the inevitability of these types of regulations does not change our attitude
or change our effort to bring some reality and truth to the issues here," Perry
said.

Washington could learn from Texas, which leads the nation in wind power, said
Barry Smitherman, chairman of the Public Utility Commission and an author of the
report.

"Washington should be following our lead, rather than the other way around," he
said.

The state has long resisted regulations on carbon dioxide emissions, arguing
that they would unfairly burden the state's businesses, ratchet up energy costs
and wrap Texans in red tape.

"Reductions in CO2 will likely be achieved by reducing coal-produced
electricity, resulting in less fuel diversity, higher reliance on natural gas,
decreased electric reliability, and higher prices for consumers," the report
says.

In 2006, Texas supported the EPA as it argued before the U.S. Supreme Court that
the greenhouse gas is not a dangerous air pollutant. But the Supreme Court sided
with Massachusetts and a host of other states challenging the EPA's
interpretation, leading to the possibility of regulations.

Perry has questioned the link between human activities and global warming.

"I've heard Al Gore talk about man-made global warming so much that I'm starting
to think that his mouth is the leading source of all that supposedly deadly
carbon dioxide," Perry told a gathering of California Republicans in September
2007.

The report that Perry is submitting to the EPA as his official comment was
authored by Railroad Commission Chairman Michael Williams, an elected official
who counts coal and energy companies among his chief campaign donors;
Smitherman; and Bryan Shaw, a commissioner at the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.

With the change in Washington, Texas should work with regulators to get credit
for its wind power and acknowledgement of its energy work, said state Sen. Kirk
Watson, D-Austin.

"We should be very careful that we don't set up Texas to be in opposition in
Washington," he said, "so that a state that is a leader in terms of energy
production isn't unduly penalized for what it does for the rest of the country."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 21, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Researchers link carbon dioxide to plant protein loss

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 408 words


It started with a seemingly off-the-wall question in a 2004 global change
biology class at Southwestern University in Georgetown.

The discussion was about how increases in carbon dioxide, a contributing cause
of global warming, lead to a decline in the amount of proteins in some plants.

"How would rising CO2 levels affect the Atkins diet?" asked Holly Allen , then
an undergraduate majoring in environmental studies. The Atkins diet, still en
vogue then, emphasizes proteins over carbohydrates.

Searching for the answer led to a study, to be published in an upcoming issue of
the journal Global Change Biology , that provides a serious answer:

Protein levels in staple foods like rice and wheat could decline by as much as
15 percent by 2100.

Those results could have far-reaching consequences for nutrition, especially in
developing countries.

"Wheat and rice are really major ingredients of the food aid we deliver
worldwide in some 80 countries," said Bettina Luescher , a spokeswoman for the
United Nations' World Food Program.

Protein is a key source of nourishment, according to the World Food Program.

Climate-change scientists say the carbon dioxide concentrations in the
atmosphere, currently about 380 parts per million, could jump to between 540 and
958 parts per million by the year 2100.

Allen, a classmate and Southwestern biology professor Max Taub pored over more
than 200 previously published studies to determine how the higher carbon dioxide
would affect nutrient levels, winnowing out studies that relied on carbon
dioxide levels above or below the 2100 predictions.

"One study that looked at space missions and the possibility of growing plants
on Mars had concentrations of 10,000 parts per million ," Taub said.

"We'll never see that on Earth."

They found that protein concentrations could decline by 10 percent to 15 percent
in wheat, barley and rice; by 14 percent in potatoes; and about 1.4 percent in
soybeans.

"Patterns aren't apparent until someone does this," Taub said of their analysis.

Other reports have suggested that more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will
help plants thrive, even if, assuming the Southwestern paper bears out, they're
less nutritious.

"In general, plant growth is increased by elevated CO2 levels," Taub said. "But
it's a complicated story. While any plant's growth will increase on its own,
when plants are competing together, they may be dealing with bigger
competitors."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

helping forecast climate effects

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 532 words


Don Blankenship long ago gave up counting how many times he's traveled to
Antarctica.

The University of Texas geophysicist has walked parts of the frozen continent,
driven snowmobiles over it, set off seismic blasts and ridden in a plane crammed
with scanning equipment to measure vast stretches of the ice.

Blankenship and his UT team have become the leading authorities on Thwaites
Glacier, a fast-moving ice stream that could trigger more rapid loss of the West
Antarctic Ice Sheet, of which it is part, into the sea.

Parts of Thwaites move as much as 20 feet a day - a sprint, by glacial
standards. As compared with 12 years ago, the glacier's mouth has broadened by a
dozen miles and is delivering an additional 4 cubic miles of ice per year to the
sea. The rate of ice loss for Antarctica overall has increased an estimated 75
percent in that time.

Thwaites could yield critical clues about how climate change might affect sea
levels in the next century or two. Blankenship's team is pushing into the huge
computing effort required to decipher those clues.

"We have the richest data set on the most significant piece of ice on the
planet," Blankenship said.

"This is really a key place to learn about," agreed ice sheet expert Richard
Alley of Pennsylvania State University.

The West Antarctic is different from most ice sheets in that much of it rests on
rock and sediment that is a mile or more below sea level. That exposes it to
ocean water, making it more vulnerable.

About 20,000 years ago, there were similar marine ice sheets in Siberia and
Canada's Hudson Bay. They "went away very quickly" during a period of climate
change, Blankenship said.

To get a "picture" of the West Antarctic ice and how it behaves, the UT team has
flown over it again and again to take numerous readings with radar as well as
with sensors that measure gravity and magnetism. Those readings reveal things
such as the density of the ice, how fast the sheet is losing mass and the
smoothness or slipperiness of the rock and sediment it's sitting on.

Some of those detailed measurements come courtesy of Jupiter's moon Europa.
Blankenship has been involved in developing deep-penetrating radar for a
proposed NASA mission to survey possible ice formations on Europa. For its first
field test, Blankenship decided to aim the radar at Thwaites Glacier.

Blankenship's team is using one of UT's supercomputers, Lonestar, to transform
the data into two-dimensional cross sections of the ice sheet. In about a year,
he said, he expects to have an early version of a computer model ready for
Ranger to start working on.

As crucial as Ranger is to the project, success isn't guaranteed.

"It is really hard to use a supercomputer to solve an important problem,"
Blankenship said. "It takes people who know the data and people who know the
algorithms (step-by-step problem solving procedures incorporated into software)
and people who know the machines and real communication between them."

And it might take yet another computer to finish the job. A tested model of the
West Antarctica Ice Sheet is at least five years away, Blankenship estimates.
Ranger is expected to be retired in about four.

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Major companies join Austin's clean energy push

BYLINE: Claudia Grisales AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 592 words


Business and community leaders announced a new partnership Wednesday with nine
major companies - including Dell Inc. , Freescale Semiconductor Inc. and
Microsoft Corp. - to help bring a new clean energy economy to Central Texas.

The companies could deploy dozens of employees to the Pecan Street Project, a
9-month-old public-private initiative to develop a local clean energy power
system.

Some early ideas include Internet-based thermostats that can be adjusted from a
remote computer and a solar panel project for tens of thousands of Austin homes
and businesses.

"This will be a beacon for cities around the world," said David Yarnold ,
executive director of the national environmental advocacy group Environmental
Defense Fund, which helped negotiate the partnerships.

The announcement, which was made at the Clean Energy Venture Summit at the
University of Texas, signals that the Pecan Street Project has drawn the muscle
necessary to move forward.

It also shows state leaders that significant members of the Texas business
community are ready to move forward with clean energy plans - with or without
their help.

Last month, Gov. Rick Perry said potential federal legislation to curb pollution
to address global climate change could hurt the Texas economy.

This "sends a great message about the opportunity for Texas should we embrace
the clean energy economy wholeheartedly," said Austin City Council member and
possible mayoral candidate Brewster McCracken, who helped jump-start the
initiative in March.

The City of Austin, UT, Austin Energy, the Environmental Defense Fund, the new
corporate partners and others plan to research and design a clean energy system
that will produce 300 megawatts of electricity within Austin city limits. One
megawatt can power about 750 homes.

The corporate partners also include GE Energy , IBM Corp. , Intel Corp., Oracle
Corp., Cisco Systems Inc. and Arlington-based GridPoint Inc. Sematech will
consult on the project and could potentially host the clean energy laboratory.

"The ability to do something local that can be a model for the state, for the
nation, perhaps even for the global community is something that fits with Dell's
preferred method of attacking the global climate crisis," said Jeff Krech,
manager of Dell's Global Facilities Sustainability Program.

The initiative had its origins at a downtown lunch in early March between
McCracken and B.J. Stanbery , CEO of Austin-based solar energy company HelioVolt
Inc. Stanbery laid out a compelling future of decentralized energy distribution
driven by solar cells atop homes and businesses, McCracken said.

An April meeting followed with Austin Energy chief Robert Duncan and experts and
executives from UT, the Austin Technology Incubator and the Greater Austin
Chamber of Commerce.

"We were working backwards," McCracken said. "We looked 20 years into the future
and said, 'If you had solar power all over, what systems would you have to have
in place to make that work?'"

McCracken said the Pecan Street Project will work in three phases: planning and
innovation, implementation of existing technology and research and development.

By August, project leaders hope the new collaboration will lay out its short- to
long-term recommendations and any potential public investment proposals,
McCracken said.

It's too early to say how much money the system might generate or how many jobs
it might bring to Central Texas. The planning and implementation could last five
to 15 years.

cgrisales@statesman.com; 912-5933

Additional material from staff writer Asher Price.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Buying green, saving green

BYLINE: M.B. Taboada American-Statesman STAFF

SECTION: STATESMAN_HOMES; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 979 words


Even with rising energy costs and a larger, two-story home, Adrian and Kelly
Gonzales are still saving money on their electric bills.

In April, the couple moved into a Georgetown home built by Green Builders Inc.,
which touts energy-saving features and sustainability.

They pay 32 percent less - last month their electric bill was $150 - on their
2,700-square-foot two-story home than they did in their previous one-story,
1,900-square-foot home, even though it's 42 percent larger.

Much of those cost savings comes thanks to spray-foam insulation, a tankless
water heater, dual-pane windows and efficient cooling systems, among other
features the builder used.

In Austin and other cities across the nation, green building is finally taking
off. This year, green building's share of the U.S. residential housing market is
expected to hit 6 percent, up from 2 percent in 2005, according to a McGraw-Hill
Construction Research & Analytics survey.

Since 2005, about 332,900 green homes have been built, with an average price of
$296,000.

But with various companies and builders touting green living and products, how
does a homeowner know what to look for?

Whether buying a new or existing home, home buyers can turn to several resources
to figure out whether claims of being green are accurate.

Homes that are green are designed, constructed and operated using resources that
have less of a negative impact on the environment. Such homes use less energy
and water, renewable materials, right-sized heating and cooling systems and
native landscaping. They also create less waste.

Buyers can verify whether a home has been certified through one of many green
building programs including Austin Energy's Green Building program; the National
Association of Home Builders Green Building Program and the U.S. Green Building
Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system; and
programs for new and existing homes through Energy Star, a joint program of the
Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy.

Each group provides standards, some more stringent than others, for
certification. The organizations also provide recommendations to help make a
home more energy-efficient, even if the consumer doesn't seek certification.

Consumers can have a third-party home energy rater check out the energy-saving
features in a home. (Recommendations are listed on the Web sites of Austin
Energy, Energy Star and the National Association of Home Builders green
programs.)

"Green building isn't just bandages and a bunch of materials," said Mary McLeod,
coordinator for the Austin Energy Green Building single-family program. "It's
much more basic than that."

Most of the savings begin in the design phase. For example, the orientation of
the home - on an east-west axis - is important to naturally reduce energy, as is
using proper insulation, efficient heating and cooling systems and tight
ductwork.

Even if a home isn't officially certified, consumers can check for basic
energy-saving features including efficient heating and cooling systems, windows,
awnings over windows and energy-efficient appliances.

Because Green Builders owner Clark Wilson is building outside Austin, he cannot
get certified through Austin Energy's Green Building program, one of the most
rigorous in the country.

"The city's program is a great program to follow," said Wilson, who consulted
with architects and designers who work with Austin's green program and followed
those guidelines. "They kind of pushed me to seek other certification programs."

Wilson said Austin "is a great place to sell this kind of product, and there's a
lot of intellectual capacity in our field here."

While his homes meet Energy Star's specifications, he "wanted to get into a
stricter program," he said, and decided to adhere to the National Association of
Home Builders green building standards.

His homes use 24-inch overhangs to reduce heat, 53-gallon rain barrels that
collect rain to reduce water use, local and regional materials that save fuel
for shipping and special paint and finishes that emit lower levels of organic
pollutants.

Kelly Gonzales, a pediatric dentist, said she was impressed by how "beautiful"
her recycled carpet (made from soda bottles) is in her new home, but was most
pleased by the indistinguishable temperature variance between her lower and
second floors.

And the bonus for Gonzales has been in having a sustainable home.

"We knew what we were doing was good for the environment," she said.

mtaboada@statesman.com; 912-2942

Go green with improvements that boost energy efficiency
 Homeowners can make existing homes more efficient with simple improvements.
* Cool your attic with a radiant barrier under the roof decking.
* Add more insulation to your attic (R-30 is recommended for our climate).
* Caulk windows and baseboards; weather-strip doors; install foam covers at
light switches and outlets.
* Insulate and weatherstrip the hatch to your attic.
* Change windows only if they are steel casement or jalousie types. Most other
window replacement isn't worth doing for energy reasons.
* Shade windows that receive a lot of direct sun. Add solar screens, window
films, awnings; build a pergola or trellis; plant shade trees.
* Install and use ceiling fans in rooms you occupy the most, even kitchens and
baths.
* Change out old leaky recessed-can light fixtures to the IC-AT kind
(insulation-contact, air-tight).
* Change useless down-light trim lighting to eyeball and wall-washer trim when
possible to get more light on walls.
* Paint exterior a light color to reflect heat. Paint interior light colors to
reflect light and reduce need for hot artificial lights.
* Get your heating and cooling equipment serviced regularly. Change your
filters regularly.
* Change indoor and outdoor
lights that are used most
frequently to durable,
energy-efficient
compact fluorescent
bulbs.
 Source: Austin Energy



LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 18, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Coal plant deal shows environmental split

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1165 words


When the Environmental Defense Fund signed a deal with utility NRG Texas late
last month to end its opposition to a plan for a new coal-fired power plant in
Limestone County, about 140 miles northeast of Austin, the advocacy group
cheered that it had won concessions that will make a dent in the global warming
problem.

Under the deal, NRG agreed to capture half of its carbon dioxide emissions or
mitigate the emissions by investing in things that can absorb the carbon
dioxide, as well as to limit emissions of other greenhouse gases.

However, other environmental groups declined to participate in the negotiation.
Any coal plant, as far as they were concerned, would contribute to the world's
warming.

Reaction to the deal throws into relief differences between environmental groups
- those that compromise and those that take a harder line - as they try to shape
how Texas and the nation address global warming in coming years. And it
illustrates how the regulatory climate in Texas, far from comfortable for
environmental groups, shapes deal-making.

Under the agreement, the Environmental Defense Fund and a Dallas- and
Houston-led group called Texas Clean Air Cities Coalition that includes Travis
County will withdraw their opposition to a proposed 800-megawatt coal-fired
power plant in Limestone County, east of Waco, that will feed the statewide
electrical grid.

The utility says it will mitigate carbon dioxide emissions; reduce nitrogen
oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions at the plant site, where there are
already two coal-fired units; cut its water use; and pay for the development of
a utility-scale solar energy project or contribute money to an energy efficiency
fund.

The plant, large enough to power 640,000 homes , should go online in 2013 , said
David Knox , a spokesman for the company. The plant will emit about 800 tons of
carbon dioxide an hour, or about 7 million tons of carbon dioxide a year. By
comparison, Texas' coal-fired power plants collectively emitted just over 147
million tons of carbon dioxide in 2004, the most recent data shows.

The parties to the deal are not releasing the nitty-gritty details, such as how
much NRG might pay toward the solar project or how carbon dioxide offsets, which
have been faulted in the past for being a squishy term for all kinds of ways of
mitigating emissions, were calculated.

"We wanted it to be real and not have an accounting trick," said Jim Marston ,
head of the Austin office of the Environmental Defense Fund.

He said NRG had agreed to help pay for a pilot project of capturing carbon
dioxide in grasses over the Ogallala aquifer and would finance carbon capture
studies at the University of Texas. He would not say how much the utility will
pay.

Marston said that without government regulations on carbon dioxide - neither
Texas nor the federal government limits emissions of the greenhouse gas - it is
up to groups like his to hash out details on offsets, which have included
planting trees and building solar panels to cancel out emissions of carbon
dioxide.

Groups including Sierra Club and Robertson County Our Land Our Lives, which
counts as its members the watchdog environmental group Public Citizen, would not
enter the deal with NRG. Officials with those groups said they will continue to
contest the utility's air permit application at the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality. The commission is unlikely to decide whether to issue the
permit before 2009.

"The reason Sierra Club and others are staying in this fight is that carbon
dioxide emissions from this site are huge," said Ilan Levin , a lawyer for
Sierra Club.

Environmental groups have said the proposed plant, called Limestone 3 , does not
meet federal Clean Air Act mandates that require industries to use
top-of-the-line technologies. The groups also say the impact on air quality in
cities such as Dallas and Austin should be fully studied.

But those arguments have gotten little traction in Texas, where the demand for
energy has grown as the population booms and where the environmental agency that
issues air permits and the governor's office have been sympathetic to energy
industry arguments.

"I have less confidence in the regulators in Texas than in other states," said
Marston, who also played a role in brokering a deal that rolled back power plant
plans by the utility TXU in 2007. "It does not make sense for me to ignore the
regulatory climate I'm in. If I get two-thirds a loaf, I'm going to take it."

The split between the environmental groups on the NRG deal is part of larger
differences about how to address the energy crunch.

"The difference between us and some other groups is some are against all coal
plants no matter what," Marston said. "We're not anti-coal, but we worry how
much CO2 from the plant will get into the air. We think you can sequester it,
and we think you can offset it."

Representatives from Sierra Club and Public Citizen concede that the deal could
offer "downside protection" if they are not able to block the plant but said
they will continue to fight the deal.

"While Environmental Defense Fund has done great work in cutting carbon dioxide
emissions at the plant by as much as 50 percent, it's not enough to assure
viability of our climate," said Tom Smith , the head of the Austin office of
Public Citizen.

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

Anatomy of a deal
 NRG Texas already has two coal-fired power plants at its Limestone County
site, and in 2007, the utility proposed a third. The Environmental Defense Fund
 and Texas Clean Air Cities Coalition, a group of 36  local governmental
entities, dropped their objections to the plan in exchange for these
concessions, among others. NRG says it will:
* Offset half of the carbon generated by the proposed unit, making the carbon
profile of this coal-fueled plant roughly equivalent to that of a gas-fueled
plant. Those efforts could include 'sequestration,' using crops or other plants
 to absorb carbon dioxide; retiring older, less efficient power plants; and
using wind or solar energy. NRG will not build another coal-fueled plant in
Texas unless this condition is met.
* Use new technology at the new plant and improve the old plants, which will
push nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions for all three units
below the 2006  levels of the two existing units.
* Help pay for a large solar energy project in Texas, if economically feasible
as determined by criteria in the agreement. If NRG does not build or
participate in a utility-scale solar plant, it will contribute to a trust that
would pay for Texas energy efficiency projects, such as getting schools to
replace older heating and air-conditioning units with more efficient ones.
* Use special technology to cut water use. NRG says it will consume 1.3 billion
 more gallons of water annually at the site once the plant is built, not the
3.2 billion gallons typically required by an 800-megawatt coal plant.
* Help pay for experimenting with ways that grasses absorb carbon dioxide.



LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 851 words


Capitol bus stop

Re: Dec. 20 article "Capitol security plans will bump bustling bus stop."

Gov. Rick Perry and the State Preservation Board's plan to turn the Texas
Capitol complex into a Baghdad "Green Zone" by moving one of the city's most
important bus stops speaks more of racism, classism and expedient politics than
it does of "security."

Though destroying Austin's most vital downtown transit junction might send
significant numbers of transit-riding state employees back to their cars and
increase traffic on our roads, most of Austin's bus riders are minorities and
earn less than $20,000 annually.

Moving the buses is really about keeping "those kind of people" away from the
Capitol grounds and Governor's Mansion.

DAVID D. DOBBS

Executive director

Texas Association

for Public Transportation

Austin

War on drugs

One definition of insanity is doing something over and over and expecting
different results. So it goes with the "war on drugs." No matter how much it's
fought, the drugs keep flowing, including steroids.

The fact is, people will use drugs no matter their illegality. And not only is
this "war" futile, but fighting over control of the illegal trade in other
countries, like Mexico, has caused horrendous mayhem, for which we are
responsible with our policies.

Isn't it time to try something different? Drugs could be decriminalized.
Production and distribution could be controlled and taxed. Proceeds from drug
sales could be used for discouragement campaigns and rehabilitation instead of
enriching criminal gangs and filling our prisons with drug abusers.

The "war on drugs" does more damage than good.

EUGENE CZORA

autocycle@austin.rr.com

Cedar Creek

Condomania

Re: Dec. 21 article "Spoke sold, but two-steppin' to go on."

I would like to build some condominiums at the Texas Capitol. Of course, the
Capitol building can remain for character and what not.

JOSHUA BUMB

San Marcos

Taxing energy

Re: Dec. 17 article "Local lawmakers diverge on climate change."

Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, Republican U.S. senators from Texas,
should be applauded for voting against the version of the Senate energy bill
containing massive new taxes on domestic energy production.

New energy taxes would have a huge negative effect on our economy since they are
directly passed down to consumers and businesses in the form of higher prices at
the pump and for all other goods and services.

I do agree that America needs to seek new solutions to the rising demand for
energy worldwide and to address climate change. However, the last thing we need
is higher energy taxes that would only make matters worse for consumers.

HAROLD R. KRISE

Cedar Park

Cost effective?

Re: Dec. 9 commentary "Communication goes both ways."

Fred Gilliam, the president and CEO of Capital Metro, wrote that one of the
goals for the transit system is to be "cost effective."

He must calculate cost effectiveness the same way our military does. To kill
four of the enemy we need one aircraft carrier, 6,000 sailors, four aircraft and
four 500-pound lazer-guided bombs.

Cap Metro's rail service will never pay for itself. It will be a money pit.

The 62 percent vote is meaningless. People vote for what is effectively
advertised

DONALD HEILIG

dm_heilig@yahoo.com

Lakeway

When the war ends

When President Bush can't keep the Iraq war going because he is no longer
president and National Guard troops start returning to their jobs and displacing
the ones who were doing it, what happens to our economy?

What happens to the people who were manufacturing replacement vehicles, weapons,
ammunition, bombs and other military gear when they're no longer needed?

The United States still has tens of thousands of troops in Korea, and we'll
probably have tens of thousands of troops in Iraq. The new president is going to
have a truckload of problems left by the Bush administration.

JERRY GARVIN

jerrygarvin@webtv.net

Austin

Age discrimination

A new regulation gives employers, big and small, a way to "skip" around age
discrimination laws.

Now they can decrease or eliminate benefits to retirees 65 and older.

Mark another victory for the Bush administration and big business.

JERRY SMITH

Fredericksburg

The wall and Bethlehem

Re: Dec. 30 letter "No way in?"

The letter writer expresses dismay about the existence of a wall dividing
Bethlehem and says that Joseph and Mary would have been cut off from the inn had
the wall existed at the time of Jesus.

First, the wall does not divide Bethlehem. It separates the city on three sides
from nearby Jerusalem.

Second, the wall has openings to allow individuals to cross between the two
areas with appropriate security safeguards. More than 60,000 Christians
reportedly visited Manger Square this past Christmas Eve.

Third, the security barrier saves lives. Palestinian terrorists killed more than
1,100 Israelis between 2000 and 2005, including 211 from Jerusalem. Since
stepped-up security measures began in 2006, the terrorist death toll has been
36.

I wish the writer had as much compassion for the innocent victims of terrorist
bombings as she displays for the figurines in her imaginary manger scene.

Jay Rubin

jaylrubin@gmail.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 10, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Faith leaders seek to bridge divisions, work for social justice

BYLINE: EILEEN FLYNN AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. G04

LENGTH: 822 words


I hesitate before I even begin this column, wondering what images the words and
names I use will evoke among readers. What evangelical means to one person; what
the term progressive means to another. But here goes: Jim Wallis, a
"progressive" evangelical Christian is coming to Austin next week. Wallis, whose
latest book, "The Great Awakening," describes a revival among young people who
seek to live out their faith through social justice, will participate in a rally
that seeks to overcome labels and encourage people to confront the world's ills,
from environmental destruction to poverty.

If you hear Wallis, progressive and social justice and think that's code for
liberal and not truly Christian, stick around. We're about to explore
assumptions about faith and politics.

I'll start with an anecdote. I recently attended a Passover Seder at the home of
some friends in South Austin. As we recounted the Exodus story and ate our
bitter herbs and all the things you do at a Seder, the hosts asked the 20 or so
people gathered to name some modern-day plagues (the equivalent of the locusts
and disease God sent to Egypt in the Bible).

"Traffic!" someone shouted.

"The war in Iraq," offered a 10-year-old girl.

"Global warming," called out one man. "Or is the proper term now climate change?
"

Other problems were tossed out and met with hearty responses. And then the woman
sitting opposite me declared, "Evangelicals!"

I winced. The word sliced clear through the reverie, and suddenly I felt
panicked. I couldn't let that go unchallenged, but I didn't know this woman. I
didn't want to make a scene. My mouth formed the words anyway: "Hey, I take
exception to that, as a religion reporter."

She didn't blink. But the woman next to me leaned in. "What did you say? A
belligerent reporter?"

Well, sometimes, I thought.

I wanted to say to the woman across from me, "Evangelicals are a huge and
diverse group. You can't just decide you hate them all. And anyway, isn't that
just a little intolerant?"

But this wasn't my house. I was a guest. And anyway, she didn't seem interested.

Later, it occurred to me that my reaction stemmed not as much from the comment
itself but from the woman's assumption that everyone would agree with her, that
no one would protest her maligning a good chunk of the American population. In
another community, someone might have said Muslims or atheists or liberals and
assumed it was safe. This is what happens when we surround ourselves with
like-minded people. Our stereotypes go unchallenged.

This is why Bob Carlton helped the Texas Freedom Network organize "Rise ... a
rally for hope" at the Capitol on Tuesday . The rift often comes down to
language and perception, says Carlton, executive director of Austin Change,
which he described as "a network of faithful people working for grace and
mercy."

Some of the people who will speak at the rally represent widely different
ideologies, but they all see the importance of addressing this question: "How
are we called to end extreme poverty, to care for creation, to embody mercy?"

One of the speakers, Neil Blumofe, cantor and spiritual leader at Congregation
Agudas Achim, said people of faith should embrace that challenge, even if -
especially if - it means crossing ideological barriers.

"When was the last time we could really break down rhetoric?" he said. "When was
the last time we could really break down fear?"

Not in a long time, Wallis says. But he believes it's happening now that young
Christians are becoming social justice activists and social justice activists
are becoming Christians. And young people especially, be they liberal or
conservative, Southern Baptists or Emergent, are willing to work together on
issues such as the environment, hunger, health care and genocide.

Yes, abortion is still an important issue, said Wallis, who opposes the choice
but doesn't want to criminalize it. But, he stressed, Christians must not "limit
our concern for life to just abortion."

I told Wallis, a self-described evangelical, about the woman at the Seder, and
he laughed.

Then he said he wished she could have been sitting in the balcony of the large
evangelical Vineyard Church in Columbus, Ohio, last month during a three-night
"justice revival." Ten thousand people came, and half of them were younger than
30, Wallis said. Ministers led altar calls. People pledged to convert to a faith
that embraces the poor. Hundreds signed up to be mentors to at-risk kids.

"It changed the image of Christianity in Columbus overnight," Wallis said.

And, he added, it probably would have changed that woman's notion of
evangelicals.

The opportunity presents itself again Tuesday.

eflynn@statesman.com; 445-3812

'Rise' rally
 When: 5 p.m. Tuesday
 Where: Texas Capitol, south steps
 Cost: Free, open to the public

Faith & Freedom Series
with the Rev. Jim Wallis
 When: 7 p.m. Tuesday
 Where: First United Methodist Church, 1201 Lavaca St.
 Information: Reserve seats at www.tfn.org



LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Compressiondepression

BYLINE: Alan Trubow AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 771 words


When the Texas Longhorns returned to practice Monday after a week off for final
exams, there was an energy that hadn't been seen all year.

"It was the first time since the season began that everybody isn't tired,"
relief pitcher Keith Shinaberry said. "Between school and baseball, the schedule
this year has really taken its toll on everybody. It's the toughest semester
I've ever had. Now that school's out it feels like I can breathe again. "

This year, the NCAA implemented a uniform start for college baseball, forcing
the Longhorns and other teams to have five-game weeks and creating a very taxing
schedule.

Imagine playing night games on Tuesday and Wednesday before traveling to
Manhattan, Kan., on Thursday. After games on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, you
travel back to Austin on Monday, only to get home at 6 p.m. and head to class.

"That's what happened to me," Texas right fielder Kyle Russell said. "I walked
into anthropology class after traveling all day and being out of town all
weekend. This has been more exhausting than any other season."

Many players used to a less-compressed season have struggled to adjust.

"I don't think it's fair to the players," said Texas men's athletic director
DeLoss Dodds. "It is killing our kids academically and athletically. I think
we've put them in a position where they've had trouble having any sort of life
besides baseball and studying, and even maintaining those is difficult."

Randa Ryan, the senior associate athletic director for student services,
oversees the academic progress of Longhorn athletes. "Baseball," she said,
"already was the hardest sport to balance athletics and academics. Now, it's by
far the hardest. The players are missing more classes, they're playing more
games per week and they're all really tired. You can see it wearing on them ."

Shinaberry said he has seen players writing papers on the plane, studying at odd
hours and struggling to adjust.

"It's one of those things where every day you leave the house at 8 a.m. and
don't return until 10 or 11 p.m.," he said. "And you don't have any time to just
relax. When you're talking about 18-, 19-, 20-year-old kids, they need time to
unwind and relax."

Not everybody in college baseball sees the new schedule as a problem.

"It's more of a situation of welcome to our world," Michigan coach Rich Maloney
said. "Northern schools have been dealing with this type of situation for a long
time. Nothing changed for us this season. " We've always had to recruit kids who
can handle this intense schedule."

Schools in colder climates always have had condensed baseball schedules because
of their inability to play games in late January or early February. In previous
years, Texas began its season Feb. 1.

This season, no teams could play games until Feb. 22, but the NCAA didn't reduce
the regular season or move back the College World Series.

"This season has been exactly what we predicted it would be," Longhorns coach
Augie Garrido said. "We haven't been able to practice much at all. The kids are
always either playing baseball or studying. They're missing more classes, and I
don't understand how the NCAA thinks this is helpful to the academic side of
things."

The NCAA hasn't come to any conclusions.

"We've had some complaints, but I don't think we've had enough time to see if
changes need to be made," said Dennis Poppe, the NCAA's managing director for
football and baseball. "Teams still are getting used to the new schedule. There
always is an adjustment period when things change."

Dodds and Garrido are recommending a split schedule that would allow teams to
play eight games during the fall and 48 games during the spring.

"The fall games could happen during football weekends, giving fans something
else to go to," Dodds said. "They wouldn't count toward records in the spring
season or qualifying for the NCAA tournament ."

Not everyone likes the idea.

"I don't think many coaches want to reduce the number of spring games," said
Mississippi State athletic director Larry Templeton, who's on the 10-person NCAA
baseball regional selection committee. "And I know the selection committee would
be against it. We want to have as many games as possible to evaluate teams'
abilities."

Any changes won't happen for a while.

According to Pope and Big Ten deputy commissioner Tim Weiser, it takes between
nine to 12 months to implement an NCAA rule change.

So next season is going to be similar to this one.

"And players are going to continue having problems," Shinaberry said. " We're
almost trying to fit in a minor-league schedule and fitting education into it as
well. That doesn't work. It just doesn't work."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

AUSTIN 360 BETS

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 1101 words


LATE-NIGHT MUSICAL GUESTS

MONDAY

Charlie Haden, 'Late Show With David Letterman'

Celine Dion, 'Tonight Show With Jay Leno'

T.I., 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

TUESDAY

Sia, 'Late Show With David Letterman'

Colbie Caillet, 'Tonight Show With Jay Leno'

Steel Train, 'Late Night With Conan O'Brien'

Akon, 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Lady Antebellum, 'Late Late Show With Colin Ferguson'

WEDNESDAY

Jenny Lewis, Elvis Costello, 'Late Show With David Letterman'

Tom Jones, 'Tonight Show With Jay Leno'

Ice Cube, 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

THURSDAY

Common, 'Tonight Show With Jay Leno'

The Airborne Toxic Event, 'Late Night With Conan O'Brien'

Tom Jones, 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

X, 'Late Late Show With Colin Ferguson'

FRIDAY

Taylor Swift, 'Tonight Show With Jay Leno'

Adele, 'Late Night With Conan O'Brien'

Ludacris, 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Little Jackie, 'Late Late Show With Colin Ferguson'

MUSIC

Little Elmore Reed Blues Band at T.C.'s Lounge. This is a total scene -
fresh-faced college kids going Eastside to the max at a real live juke joint
sprinkled with regulars. But the band's a draw, too, with Mike Keller laying
claim to the title of most exciting young axman in town. 1413 Webberville Road.
926-2200.

- Michael Corcoran

Also recommended: Charles Thibodeaux at Evangeline Cafe; Sarah Elizabeth
Campbell at Artz Rib House; Beaux Loy Band at Lucky Lounge; Heart & Soul Sound
System at Room 710.

UT Symphony Orchestra concert. 8 p.m. Bates Recital Hall, University of Texas
campus. $15, $10 seniors, UT faculty/staff, $5 students. 471-5401.

CAUSE

World AIDS Day. It's the 20th year for this cause, which highlights the global
AIDS epidemic and efforts to stop the spread of the disease. Go to
www.worldaidscampaign.org for downloadable information and a calendar of events
around the world planned for today. Here's one: Starbucks is giving 5 cents to
the Global Fund to help save lives in Africa for every hand-crafted beverage
sold today. The coffee company also is giving 5 cents to the fund for every
Starbucks Red beverage sold between now and Jan. 2. (The Red campaign raises
money for the Global Fund through the sale of various products. More at
www.joinred.com.)

TV

'Shrek the Halls,' 7 p.m. ABC. An animated special that features the 'Shrek'
movie voice cast, including Mike Myers, Eddie Murphy, Cameron Diaz and Antonio
Banderas. Shrek struggles to get into the holiday spirit with Fiona and the
kids, but Donkey, Gingerbread Man and the rest turn coziness into chaos.

'Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas,' 7:30 p.m. ABC. A favorite since
1966, the animated special tells the story of the bitter, misery-loving Grinch.
Irritated at the thought of Whoville having a merry Christmas, he disguises
himself as Santa Claus and steals all the presents to keep Christmas from
coming. It comes anyway, and the Grinch's heart grows several sizes.

- Diane Holloway

ART GALLERIES

Art on 5th. 'Holiday Show: Small Pieces " Small Prices.' 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1501
W. Fifth St. 481-1111, www.arton5th.com.

Authenticity Gallery. 'Mosaica,' a collection of mosaic works from 16 local
artists. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 910 Congress Ave., Suite 100. 914-7434.

Mexic-Arte Museum. 'Creando Fuerza: Cambio y Permanencia' and the Serie
Project's 'Quinceañera.' 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 419 Congress Ave. $1-$5. 480-9373,
www.mexic-artemuseum.org.

St. Edward's University Fine Arts Gallery. 'The Alchemy' by artist David Mack. 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. Arts Building, St. Edward's University, 3001 S. Congress Ave.
www.stedwards.edu/hum/art/student/index.html.

Women and Their Work. 'Let Love Flow' by Sasha Dela. 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1710
Lavaca St. 477-1064, www.womenand

theirwork.org.

Yard Dog. Paintings by Mike Egan, Fort Guerin, and Billy Kirkland. 11 a.m. to 5
p.m. 1510 S. Congress Ave. 912-1613, www.yarddog.com.

COMING UP

Miró Quartet and Friends on Friday. Part of this season's Butler Dedicatory
concert series that celebrates the re-naming of the University of Texas' School
of Music, the Miró Quartet will perform Romberg's Flute Quintet in G,
Boccherini's 'Fandango' Quintet No. 4. and Dvorak's Piano Quintet. Faculty guest
artists include Marianne Gedigian, flute; Roger Meyers, viola; Adam Holzman,
guitar; and Anne Epperson, piano. 8 p.m. Friday. Bates Recital Hall, Music
Building, Trinity Street and Robert Dedman Drive $10-$20. 471-5401.
www.music.utexas.edu.

'I'll Be Seeing You "' on Friday. A 1940's Christmas musical revue uses actual
letters to and from the homefront during World War II along with popular holiday
tunes of the era and razzle-dazzle dance numbers. 7:30 p.m. Fridays, 2 and 7:30
p.m. Saturdays, 2 and 7 p.m. Sundays through Dec. 14. Tex-Arts, 2300 Lohman's
Spur, Lakeway. $22-$48. 965-6050. www.tex-arts.org.

Guitar concert on Saturday. Austin Classical Guitar Society presents Manuel
Barrueco, Grammy-nominated classical guitar master. This solo concert spans
several centuries from Renaissance songs to Bach's 'Chaconne' to the tango music
of Astor Piazzolla. 8 p.m. Northwest Hills United Methodist Church, 7050 Village
Center Drive. $30-$60. 300-2247.

- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

Service Industry delivers 'Babies'

The Service Industry

Keep the Babies Warm

(Sauspop)

***

It's hard to take seriously a guy who yearns for the return of the McRib
sandwich and rhymes Thom Yorke with dork, but Mike McCoy (ex-Cher UK) is a
pretty terrific songwriter, with strange, funny lyrics hoisted by delicious
hooks. I'm a melody man f'real, and McCoy gets my heart humming.

The band, including former Spoon bassist Hunter Darby, Andy Thomas (Rockland
Eagles) and Robbie Araiza (what was the name of his '80s punk pop band?) knows
its way around barroom riffage. So-named because its members work in restaurants
and bars, the Service Industry is that rare tongue-in-cheek band that knows
songcraft like the Dog & Duck menu.

Unlike previous album "Ranch Is the New French" (2006), "Keep the Babies Warm"
is less a series of diatribes about day-job mendacities than a collection of
songs about general disillusionment. With great songs like "Churchy," which I
could hear on an old Faces album, and the head-bopping mid-tempo rocker "Liquid
Meat," The Service Industry has shirked the joke-band albatross.

The main problem with "Babies" is that it doesn't crunch enough. The sound mix
is somewhat leaden, as if it was recorded on a barkeep's budget. More snare
please. More layers of guitar.

There's nothing wrong with the songs, that sound both British and Midwestern, as
if Pink Floyd came up in Kansas City (where they once opened for Chainsaw
Kittens). And thanks for "Smithville," fellas, and Julie Lowery. I have no idea
what it's about, but it jolts like ice cubes in the face.

- Michael Corcoran

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 7, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bargains at half the size

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. H01

LENGTH: 4802 words


In a time of tightening belts, few holiday presents make more sense than a
coffee-table book. These sturdy tomes combine, with a few exceptions, the
virtues of a good read and a nice piece of pottery, and bear repeated
revisiting. In some cases, they seem to contain the whole world within their
covers.

Few of these books are genuinely cheap - they range from $20 to $195 - but each
of them will cost you less than a flat-screen TV or a Wii console.

- Jeff Salamon

Because of their great weight, coffee-table books should rest on the lap
briefly, intermittently. Images trump words. 'The Vanity Fair Portraits'
(Abrams, $65) is, by this definition, an ideal exemplar. More than 300
uncluttered photographs not only ravish the eye with aesthetic refinement, but
thrill through celebrity insight, from silent movie stars Douglas Fairbanks Jr.
and Joan Crawford triumphantly back-to-back on a deserted beach to George
Clooney directing a coven of wet, scantily clad models in a movie studio. Nudity
and sexuality abound. Christopher Hitchens penned a historical essay, Terrence
Pepper a critical one. Few will read them. It's about the pictures.

- Michael Barnes

For the modern architecture fanatic who has it all and wants even more, try 'The
Phaidon Atlas of 21st World Architecture' (Phaidon, $195), a follow-up to
Phaidon's successful "Atlas of World Architecture."

A monumental 800 pages, this 14.5 pounds, 21/2-foot-tall book packs more than
1,000 of the most innovative works of architecture built since 2000. The numbers
don't stop there. With 4,600 color images, 2,100 line drawings and floor plans
and more than 50 commissioned maps, the atlas represents the first proclamation
of A-list architecture in the new millennium.

And yes, one building in Austin makes the list: the gracious yet understated
modern library addition to the West Austin home of Melba and Ted Whatley,
designed by Carlos Jimenez Studio.

Meticulously categorized and color-coded by global region, each of the 1,000
entries includes data such as cost, client and global coordinates. There are
also illustrated world data charts that map construction growth and national
wealth, carbon footprint by country and global population density.

A budget-buster that comes in its own trendy vacuum-formed acid green plastic
carrying case - and perhaps more than a little symbolic of the boom economy that
created a flush of new architecture - the atlas is a design lover's true
indulgence.

Then again, you can wait for the smaller travel edition, likely to be a
soft-bound 4-inch-by-6-inch book priced around $20 and released in 2009.

- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

Two things will surprise peace sign neophytes. 1) It was not created by Lucky
Brand jeans, the mall-window medallions as big as crop circles notwithstanding.
2) It was created by British designer Gerald Holtom in 1958 as a combination of
the flag-sign semaphores for the letters "N" (flags held with arms apart, canted
downward) and "D" (one flag straight up, the other straight down), as in
"nuclear disarmament." The noble origins and modern debasements of the hippie
icon get loving treatment in 'Peace: The Biography of a Symbol' (National
Geographic Books, $25). In the hands of Ken Kolsbun and Michael S. Sweeney, the
peace sign is a Forrest Gump figure, haplessly wandering through the Cold War,
Vietnam, the civil rights movement, both Iraq wars and hosts of other causes, a
cipher upon which to project any well-intentioned movement. Rainbowed with
historical photos and pockmarked with timelines (1961: Valium is invented; 1966:
"Star Trek" makes its TV debut), it's an idealistic picture book for adult
children.

- Mike Sutter

As Alastair Gordon notes in his introduction to 'Spaced Out: Radical
Environments of the Psychedelic Sixties' (Rizzoli, $65), though the music and
drugs of the era have been written about endlessly, its physical spaces have
received little attention. "Edges softened. Corners vanished," he writes. "Rooms
were seen to rearrange themselves, breathe, flutter and pulsate with mystic
emanations, or explode with preternatural color." To capture this time and,
especially, place, Gordon gathers together vintage photographs of the sites of a
thousand be-ins and happenings - geodesic domes, crash pads, back-to-the-earth
log cabins - accompanied by his own memories and after-the-fact reportage. "A
part of me wants to check in to the nearest Marriott," he admits, but most of us
will be, at least momentarily, transported to a moment when it seemed possible
to "Change your surroundings and change yourself."

Note: This book contains lots of hippie nudity, starting on the cover.

- Jeff Salamon

If you're sick of politics after the last campaign, which seemed to give the
Hundred Years' War a run for its money, 'Campaigning for President: Memorabilia
from the Nation's Finest Private Collection' (Smithsonian Books, $35) is
probably not for you. But this is the first time author and longtime collector
Jordan M. Wright has shown his voluminous stash publicly, and this work is a
tactile look at America's very colorful, sometimes hilarious and sometimes
outrageous past.

Did you know that in the late 1800s, men wore hat liners with an image of the
candidate they supported? When they tipped their hat to another gentleman, each
knew whether it was safe to have a political chat. Or that there was a (George
H.W.) "Bush Whacker" paddleball? Ike dress socks and suspenders? My favorite
single item is a Nixon campaign fake Indian headdress, "perhaps the only
campaign item ever to appeal exclusively to Native Americans, albeit
offensively."

- Patrick Beach

The 80-page 'National Geographic Society Exploration Experience' (National
Geographic Books, $50) gives a brief but comprehensive two-page look - narrative
and photos - at notable explorers of the New World, Africa, Siberia, Australia,
the North and South Poles and other frontiers. These are honest capsules.
Exploration is hard, and these guys' leadership styles didn't always please
their crews. (For example, after discovering the Hudson River, Henry Hudson was
set adrift in a boat and never heard from again.) Best of all are little
envelopes containing 30 documents - maps, letters, reports, maps and such.
They're reproduced on distressed-looking paper that makes this volume, in
addition to a coffee-table conversation piece, a good resource for school
reports.

- Helen Anders

You have to feel for Alan Govenar, author of 'Texas Blues: The Rise of a
Contemporary Sound' (Texas A&M Press, $40). The historian/photographer from
Dallas poured his life's work into "Texas Blues," the definitive history of the
genre in this state. But the production is a mess, from the gimmicky cover shot
of Stevie Ray Vaughan playing guitar behind his back to photo captions that are
nearly impossible to read because they're all in caps and fine print. One
example of the ineptitude is that there's a fascinating section on Doyle
Bramhall, but the accompanying photos are of the drummer/singer's son, Doyle
Bramhall II.

A combination of research, analysis and oral history that run together without
much layout guidance or editing, this weighty book requires a lot of work to get
to the gems - of which there are plenty.

- Michael Corcoran

One of the most impressive art books of the year, the slipcase-housed
'Kandinsky' (Prestel, $185) weighs 13 pounds and measures 12 inches by 17
inches. Before you blast it for its excess, though, flip through its pages and
see what those extra inches offer - enough space for the subtle gradations of
Vasily Kandinsky's colorful abstract forms to play out, and for detail views
that get close enough to examine the texture of canvas without being so tight
you lose any sense of composition. The number of paintings presented (sometimes
grouped chronologically, sometimes organized around collaborators) is
commensurate with the price, with room left over for plenty of biographical
material and supporting illustrations. A standalone folder contains a
beautifully made, cloth-taped facsimile of the 1922 limited-edition publication
"Kleine Welten."

- John DeFore

Although 'Flowers and Herbs of Early America' (Colonial Williamsburg
Foundation/Yale University Press, $50) would be a welcome addition to any
serious gardener's coffee table, it is more likely to end up on the bedside
table, where it can become a cozy companion for a winter afternoon of reading
and napping and dreaming about love-in-a-mist, striped French marigolds and
hound's-tongue. Master gardener and plant curator Lawrence D. Griffith documents
58 species of flowers and herbs and discusses how they were cultivated and used
in Colonial times. Also included are recommendations on how to use the plants in
today's gardens, as well as beautiful macro photos by Barbara Temple Lombardi of
each species blooming in Griffith's trial garden.

- Renee Studebaker

If there's a chef in the family or one you've befriended, 'A Day at elBulli '
(Phaidon Press, $49.95) makes an impressive gift. Although it includes recipes,
most of them quite challenging, this is not primarily a cookbook. Call it a
dream book, one in which a chef might imagine being at center stage while the
kitchen, waitstaff and customers play out roles at one of the world's most
famous restaurants. ElBulli is Ferran Adrià's dining chemistry workshop on the
Spanish coast. Reservation requests far exceed seats available for six months
each year. Here, chef-artist Adrià creates a 30-dish set menu of molecular
gastronomy: frozen savories, unlikely food spheres, meltaway foams and hot
jellies. His toolbox is filled with such food-transforming means as liquid
nitrogen. A typical description of an item: "Pinenut Marshmallows. Cutlery -
none. How to eat - in a single mouthful." The price of this book - the photos
lavishly document 24 hours of "ideas, methods and creativity" between small
inset pages of text - is a bargain. Dinner for one, not including airfare to
Barcelona and the 2-hour drive to elBulli, would cost your favorite chef about
10 times that.

- Ed Crowell

Norman Rockwell once called gay artist and illustrator Joseph Christian
Leyendecker the "master of the magazine cover." The argument is more than
substantiated in Laurence S. Cutler and Judy Goffman Cutler's 'J.C. Leyendecker'
(Abrams, $50), which offers a look into the period between 1895 and 1945 - often
considered a golden age for American illustrators. Leyendecker, who died in
1951, was a prolific designer; he did 322 covers for The Saturday Evening Post
and many others for Collier's and Scribner's. He also created the iconic "Arrow
Collar Man," an illustrated model who, at the height of his popularity, received
thousands of fan letters a day. Based on Leyendecker's long-time partner, the
archetype influences much of today's men's fashion - not to mention AMC's "Mad
Men." Amid more than 600 photos, ads, magazine covers and paintings, the authors
offer a portrait of a private man who stayed out of the limelight and went to
great measures to conceal his sexuality.

- Marques G. Harper

If the print newspaper is, indeed, dying, 'The New York Times: The Complete
Front Pages, 1851-2008' (Black Dog & Leventhal, $60) would serve as a pretty
good tombstone. These 454 pages don't actually include every front page in the
paper's history (you have to go to the three accompanying DVD-ROMs), and,
obviously, it doesn't actually take us all the way through 2008. But the
samplings included here are suggestive enough, with the usual suspects - Pearl
Harbor, JFK's assassination, the moon walk - receiving oversized, fold-out
double-spread treatment.

The first edition of the Times (called, then, New York Daily Times, no "The")
includes a headline about a "Disturbance Between Rival Blacksmiths" and a
lengthy story on a slave riot in Pennsylvania. The last edition reproduced here
(March 19 of this year) features a look at the rivalry between Shiites and
Sunnis in Iraq and a report on the attention-getting speech on race in America
that Barack Obama delivered in, yes, Pennsylvania.

- Jeff Salamon

'Wacky Packages' (Abrams, $19.95) is a valentine to miscreants whose bookcovers
sported stickers for Blisterine mouthwash and Hungry Jerk pancake mix along with
their peace signs. With more than 200 full-page reproductions of the
product-parody stickers from 1973 and '74, the book celebrates the writers and
artists - among them "Maus" creator Art Spiegelman (who wrote the book's intro),
Mad magazine alum Jay Lynch and Bill Griffith of "Zippy the Pinhead" fame - who
let their freak flags fly with Wacky Packages for 1.A. Sauce for draft dodgers,
Chef Girl-ar-dee feminist spaghetti and Hipton tea ("Gives you the energy to
loaf, hitchhike and avoid work"). The stickers - in addition to their infamy as
bookends for the ickiest bubble gum on the planet - are reminders that brand
advertising used to be so powerful that even pop subculture cared enough to
lampoon Ajax (buh-bom-bom) the blue-dot cleanser.

- Mike Sutter

Better check the strength of your coffee table before tossing this book on it.
'Wildlands Philanthropy: The Great American Tradition' (Earth Aware, $65)
requires heavy lifting with 340 pages, most two-page photo spreads measuring 2
feet, 3 inches across. "The cumulative effect of wildlands philanthropy by
individual Americans is extraordinary, yet has gone mostly understudied and
uncelebrated," says author Tom Butler. Indeed, few of the parks, preserves and
forests were named for the donors. Muir Woods National Park, an awesome stand of
redwoods near San Francisco, carries the name of Sierra Club founder John Muir.
But it was William and Elizabeth Thatcher Kent, a wealthy couple from Chicago,
who bought the land and gave it to the government, saving the magnificent
redwoods from logging. Guadalupe Mountains National Park is the only Texas entry
among the 39 places photographed by Antonio Vizcaíno, shot without people or
animals, most in the warm hues of sunsets and sunrises. The hidden treasure of
this dry, windswept park hard by the New Mexico border is lush McKittrick
Canyon, where oilman Wallace Pratt lived before donating the canyon for the
national park created in 1972. It's one compelling stop on a journey from Alaska
to Florida, from Nambia to Patagonia, in search of the big picture of Americans'
wildlands beneficence.

- Ed Crowell

Even if you'd never deign to read a novel with a title like "Heart, Have You No
Wisdom?" or "The World of Nurse Mitchell" or "Love Slave to the Sheikh," you'll
probably be fascinated by 'The Art of Romance: Mills & Boon and Harlequin Cover
Designs' (Prestel, $25). Offering 100 years of artwork from England's Mills &
Boon house (and its eventual parent company, Harlequin), "The Art of Romance"
shows how a very narrow realm of commercial illustration progressed from the
chaste to the noirish to the lascivious, without ever resorting to irony. That
last temptation must have been particularly strong, given the distance that
often existed between the heroines of these books and their authors. "Jan
Tempest," the author of "Westward to My Love" and "Romance on Ice" was, in real
life, a sheep farmer named Irene Swatridge. Then again, at least one Mills &
Book writer led a life even more interesting than the ones she wrote about: The
popular author "Mary Burchell" was actually Ida Cook, a Civil Service typist who
used her literary earnings to travel to pre-war Germany and rescue as many Jews
as she could. She never married and lived with her sister her entire life.

- Jeff Salamon

World leaders spend so much time answering questions from journalists,
documentarians and biographers that it's a wonder they accomplish anything.
Andrew Zuckerman intruded on 50 veterans of the global stage for 'Wisdom'
(Abrams, $50). The director and photographer jetted from country to country for
years, taking pearly, flattering portraits that nevertheless retain visual marks
of aging. He also interviewed his subjects - drawing heavily from the film and
music communities, such as Clint Eastwood, Judi Dench, Willie Nelson, Ravi
Shankar, Kris Kristofferson, Vanessa Redgrave - on the titular subject. Some
responses fall flat: "Children can change the world," says Jane Goodall. (Oh
really?) Others are counterintuitive: "Don't be too ambitious," opines Henry
Kissinger. (Huh.) Only a few land effectively: "Above all, avoid cynicism," says
Irish politician Garrett FitzGerald. (I take back the Goodall crack.)

- Michael Barnes

It's not typical to single out the prose in a coffee-table book for praise, but
Pierre Descamp's narrative in 'Planet Ocean: Voyage to the Heart of the Marine
Realm' (National Geographic Books, $40) is noteworthy for its depth of knowledge
and the capacity to surprise. Here he is on a seemingly calm seabed: "Nothing is
fixed, nothing lasts. Each storm changes the physiognomy of the seafloor by
moving millions of tons of sand. For the marine animals, this instability is
hellish." (A little Werner Herzog-y, that.) Master diver and biologist Laurent
Ballesta's photos are exactly what you'd expect from a National Geographic
project, the images so vivid and in-your-face the pages practically smell of the
sea. Of course, the not-so-hidden agenda is preservation and exploration, which
is why we have a preface by Jean-Michel Cousteau, a member of the family that
has almost certainly done more than any other toward those goals. "Planet Ocean"
is intimate, surreal and " just wow. And wow again.

- Patrick Beach

Art director George Lois helped invent the look of the '60s, most famously in
the covers he did for Esquire. While earlier books have presented denser
collections of his imagery (Norman Mailer as King Kong, Andy Warhol drowning in
Campbell's Tomato), 'George Lois: On His Creation of the Big Idea' (Assouline,
$50) offers a peak behind the curtain, showing the art and ephemera that often
inspired his work, accompanied by explanatory anecdotes from the man himself.
Each two-page spread pairs one pre-existing image with a Lois design (Marlene
Dietrich in top hat and tails, for instance, inspires an Esquire image of an
actress shaving her face) and two paragraphs or so explaining the connection.
The decision to extract images from the graphic layouts for which they were made
is irksome, as the balance of text, white space and photo was often what made a
Lois ad or cover effective. But the book casts a wide net across Lois' career,
not limiting itself to one period or client, and even if some of the entries are
obvious, others - like the Japanese woodcuts that inspired a cross-eyed Muhammad
Ali portrait - are enlightening.

- John DeFore

From his first days as president, George W. Bush has kept El Paso artist Tom
Lea's landscape painting "Rio Grande" hanging in the Oval Office. But Lea is of
even more interest to Bush-era America because he followed his country to war
and drew and painted what he saw there. Most of 'The Two Thousand Yard Stare:
Tom Lea's World War II' (Texas A&M, $40) is taken up with beautiful vistas seen
from the cockpit of a P-40 (including, plus ça change, "Iraq dust storm" circa
1943) or flattering portraits of military men in repose or in battle. But toward
the end, as Lea, doubtless, saw more, we see more, too: the titular painting, of
a shell-shocked Marine or the increasingly blood-drenched scenes immortalized in
"The Price" and "Hitting the Beach." It would be too much to expect any
president to hang these by his desk.

The two-volume, slip-jacketed Bill Mauldin collection 'Willie & Joe: The WWII
Years' (Fantagraphics, $65) shows a similar development over time: The
"homefront" cartoons Mauldin did for a number of venues - mostly the Daily
Oklahoman - have a gentle commercial sheen to them. The "overseas" pieces he did
from 1943 on - almost all of them for the military publication Stars and Stripes
- drop the smooth finish for a craggier line, the better to get across the
bleariness of his world-weary characters. There's a sad wisdom on virtually
every page here. One favorite: Willie and Joe, squatting knee-deep in a flooded
foxhole while explosions and tracer fire scream overhead: "Wisht I could stand
up an' git some sleep."

- Jeff Salamon

Two big Texas artists, two big full-color books. From University of Texas Press
 comes 'James Drake' ($55) and 'A Certain Alchemy: Keith Carter' ($50),
celebrations of longstanding Lone Star visual artists, both of whom turned 60
this year.
 Born in Lubbock and now based in New Mexico, Drake gets his first catalog
raisonné with this sturdy survey of 35 years of work plus an interesting - if
too deliberately artful - gathering of texts. There are quotations from the
work of Cormac McCarthy (Drake's friend and neighbor), an overwrought prose
poem by Jimmy Santiago Baca ("Drake, the Left-Handed Hummingbird, burns
pigeon-boxes so that they may return to long-needle pine trees ...") and a
suitably academic essay by Steven Henry Madoff.
 The real draw here is the 176 images of Drake's eclectic oeuvre. Restlessly
shifting from medium to medium, Drake has over the years used everything from
charcoal on paper to video installation to found objects. Thematically, he
probes borders, such as the political and cultural faultlines between the
United States and Mexico or the boundary separating human culture from the
natural world. Fundamentally narrative - and unapologetically figurative in
style - Drake's artwork pulls from centuries of art history to create tableaux
that are at once epic and everyday.
 Unlike Drake, Keith Carter has had his work gathered in impressive volumes
before. "Alchemy" is the Beaumont-based photographer's tenth book. And
refreshingly, it's quietly personal.
 Not that Carter makes splashy or loud images. His moody black-and-white
photographs have always been steeped with a certain maudlin flare though not
always much mystery.
 The 102 images in "Alchemy" have less of the overt sentimentality. (The direct
 and down-to-earth essay by his wife, Patricia Carter, is an especially
personal touch. So is the collection of images of his eldery mother.) Yes,
there are Carter's signature odd couplings of form that his lens finds in
quotidian scenes. And, yes, there are the awkward angles and cloudy focus that
are also hallmarks of Carter's style.
 But now there's a little more enigma.
- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin


Nothing says American Dream like the idealized individual house. And though the
 economic downturn may have shattered the hopes of many homeowners, there's
never been any harm in dreaming.
 In fact, it's those dreams that have fueled an impressive history of domestic
architecture in this country, as seen in three new books.
'The American House' (Phaidon, $24.95) offers the most streamlined examination
of the evolution of the American home. Organized chronologically, the 100
homes, each with one page-size color photo and a modest amount of explanatory
text, span from a colonial New England Saltbox house to Victorian and
antebellum mansions to cerebral contemporary constructions.
 More narrow in focus, the second, revised edition of 'American Masterworks:
Houses of the 20th and 21st Centuries' (Rizzoli, $85) features only 44 houses.
With multiple color photos of each as well as text by architectural historian
Kenneth Frampton, this volume offers a thoughtful and considered entry to
understanding the depth of American modern design and how its trajectory leads
to contemporary style.
 Perhaps the most iconic American domestic form of architecture is the ranch
house. 'Cliff May and the Modern Ranch House' (Rizzoli, $60) zeroes in on one
architect whose output from the 1930s to the 1970s epitomized the modern open
floor plan and fluid indoor/outdoor design that remains popular today. May's
low-slung ranch houses - he personally designed and built more than 1,000 homes
 - embodied the kind of California regional modernity promoted across the
country in Sunset magazine. May created modernist ranch cool for the average
homeowner. And this richly illustrated and informatively written book
celebrates that.
- Jeanne Claire van Ryzi n


Wait a second - you just heard about this hot new comic book form called manga,
 and now somebody is celebrating 'One Thousand Years of Manga' (Flammarion,
$49.95)? How can that be? Simple, explains comp lit and art history professor
Brigitte Koyama-Richard: Though manga proper is only a few decades old, clear
antecedents can be found as far back as the seventh century. Koyama-Richard
offers up plenty of works of art from the 12th and 13th century that back up
her point if you squint hard enough, but the real revelations come in the 19th
century, when artists such as Kawanabe Kyosai and Katsushika Hokusai begin
drawing with a sense of kineticism and color dynamism that wouldn't have been
out of place in a Fantastic Four comic book circa 1967.
 Speaking of which: Jack Kirby and Steve Ditko are best known for the work they
 did with Stan Lee for Marvel Comics in the 1960s - Kirby co-created the Hulk,
Iron Man, the Fantastic Four and the X-Men; Ditko did the honors on Spider-Man
and Dr. Strange. Both men had distinctive and influential styles, and both of
them produced work in the decades that followed that suggested they had gone a
bit off their rockers. But there the similarities more or less end. As Mark
Evanier's 'Kirby: King of Comics' (Abrams, $40) demonstrates, the late Kirby
was a man of childlike wonder, whose renderings of giant machinery, outsized
monsters and panoramic battle scenes explode with boundless enthusiasm. There
are other collections of Kirby's art available, and a frustrating biography,
but there's no book that does as good a job of offering information and
eye-grabbing graphics in an aptly oversized format. During Kirby's heyday,
adolescents and collegiate stoners alike pored over his proto-psychedelic
drawings, and the years haven't diminished their life-affirming power.
 By contrast, as 'Strange & Stranger: The World of Steve Ditko' (Fantagraphics,
 $39.99) shows, Ditko possessed a crabbed sensibility that was rooted in a dour
 temperament and reinforced by a fervent, moralistic embrace of Ayn Rand's
philosophy. At its best, this bleakness gave Ditko's work - especially the
early issues of Spider-Man - their staying power. (His lysergic Dr. Strange
layouts are something else entirely.) At its worst, it led to a series of
unreadable treatises, in comic book form, on the virtues of Randian thought.
"Strange & Stranger" doesn't skimp on the oddness of Ditko's story (complete
with his brief involvement in soft-core bondage narratives) or the unnerving
beauty of his art.
- Jeff Salamon


It's been a good year for big books about musical subcultures; the more
obscure, the better. It doesn't get much more obscure than no wave, the name
given to a rash (in both senses of the word) of bands that bubbled up in New
York's Lower East Side in the late '70s and early '80s. Groups such as DNA,
Teenage Jesus and the Jerks, the Contortions and Red Tranistor prized noise
over melody, nihilism over optimism, art over commerce and misanthropy over
everything. Boy howdy, were they cool. 'No Wave' (Black Dog, $29.95) is a
detailed history that traces the music from its roots in the New York
avant-garde and the general apocalyptic malaise that gripped that city in the
'70s to its eventual diversification into punk, new wave and indie rock. 'No
Wave: Post-Punk. Underground. New York. 1976-1980.' (Abrams, $24.95) is a
slicker affair, curated and written by legendary underground archivist/critic
Byron Coley and Sonic Youth guitarist Thurston Moore. It covers much the same
territory on better paper and with sharper photo reproduction, but they make
perfect companion pieces for the indie rock dork in your life.
 The punks on your shopping list, on the other hand, will thrill to 'Radio
Silence: A Selected Visual History of American Hardcore' (MTV Press, $29.95)
Unlike too many histories of hardcore, "Radio Silence" dismisses the notion
that the music died at the end of Reagan's first term, covering early '90s
bands such as Born Against, Heroin, Nation of Ulysses and Earth Crisis. Photos
of packed shows join personal letters, raw record sleeve artwork, dozens of
album cover and T-shirts essays and hunks of oral history. The best book about
hardcore ever compiled? The list is long, but this is clearly a frontrunner.
 Across the pond, skinhead culture was still a vital part of post-punk life.
Photographer Gavin Watson's 'Skins and Punks' (Vice, $40) serves as a sequel to
 his ground-breaking 1994 book "Skins." Where "Skins" was fist-pumping, this is
 more intimate, a look at everyday working-class kids (of all races, mind you)
often sitting around in bedsits, embodying the boredom that makes one identify
with a subculture in the first place. It's kitchen-sink realism in the British
tradition.
- Joe Gross



LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

City sets goal: End dumping by 2040

BYLINE: Sarah Coppola AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 617 words


The City of Austin has launched an effort to try to dramatically reduce garbage
and boost reuse and recycling within a generation.

The city has hired a California firm, Gary Liss & Associates , to spend six
months writing a zero-waste plan: a long-term strategy to reduce to zero the
amount of garbage sent to landfills by reusing, recycling and composting
materials instead.

Several U.S. cities, such as Seattle and San Francisco, and countries now have
or are writing zero-waste plans. This will be Austin's first long-term solid
waste plan since 1992 .

Zero-waste plans tend to take a holistic view of trash reduction, focusing not
just on recycling but on ways to prevent garbage from getting to landfills in
the first place.

For example, a zero-waste plan might recommend increasing garbage rates to
penalize customers who produce the most trash or offer incentives to encourage
businesses to take back and reuse their packaging and products.

The goal of Austin's plan will be to reduce the garbage sent to landfills by 20
percent per capita by 2012 and to achieve zero waste - an international standard
set by the U.N. Environmental Accord - by 2040 .

"With the focus on global warming in the past few years, more communities seem
to feel comfortable adopting the zero waste goal," said Gary Liss , who has
written zero-waste plans for cities such as Palo Alto and Oakland, Calif. "These
plans could dramatically affect climate change by reducing the methane from
landfills and changing the flow of materials through the economy."

Austin diverts about 30 percent of its residential garbage from landfills and to
recycling and reuse programs, the second-best diversion rate in the state, city
Solid Waste Services Director Willie Rhodes said. Other cities have achieved
rates as high as 70 percent, Liss said.

In addition to writing a zero-waste plan, Austin will take a big step toward
boosting recycling with the opening of a single-stream recycling facility in
Southeast Austin in 2008 or 2009 , Rhodes said.

That program will let homeowners place various recyclable materials in one big
curbside bin rather than having to sort them.

Gerry Acuna , chairman of the city's Solid Waste Advisory Commission, said
Austin does a good job of selling recyclable materials such as paper, aluminum
and plastic to businesses to turn into new products.

Acuna said he hopes Liss' plan will explore how the city can sell more of those
materials.

The plan should also suggest ways to compel more businesses, schools and
churches to recycle and to recruit more companies to Austin that make use of
recycled materials, said J.D. Porter , a commission member who owns a computer
recycling business.

"You want to have businesses that want recycled materials and don't just look at
them as something that can be baled and exported," Porter said. "The goal ought
to be building up businesses locally that use these materials."

There is also room to improve Austin's recycling program for apartment dwellers,
commission member Casey Walker said. Only multifamily properties that have 100
units or more are required to provide recycling containers.

Commission member Rick Cofer said he'd also like to see Austin add a pickup
program for composted materials, similar to one in San Francisco.

San Francisco has one of the most aggressive zero-waste plans in the country,
Liss said.

Among other initiatives, the city has banned plastic foam takeout containers
from restaurants, enacted curbside pickup for food scraps, banned
petroleum-based plastic bags - a ban that Cofer said he has fought for in
Austin- and increased its garbage rates to compel residents to produce as little
trash as possible, he said.

scoppola@statesman.com; 912-2939

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

the new superbrains

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1857 words


When Earth scientists ponder the consequences of global warming, some look south
to the West Antarctic Ice Sheet.

Parts of the ice sheet - which is 2½ miles thick and about the size of Mexico -
have started moving more rapidly toward the sea. Its most active glacier is
dumping about 4 cubic miles more ice each year than was the case 12 years ago.

Some scientists say that eventually, most or all of the ice sheet is likely to
slide into the ocean, raising the world's sea level as much as 30 feet.

When? No one is entirely sure. But University of Texas scientist Don Blankenship
plans to provide a better picture with the help of Ranger, the world's largest
computer devoted to general research, which began operating in February at UT's
J.J. Pickle Research Campus.

"Without Ranger, these results aren't possible," Blankenship said.

For many 21st-century scientists, cutting-edge research is increasingly reliant
on new, more powerful computers to tackle really big problems. And several of
those big new computers are being built through a federal initiative that will
cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

"High-performance computing is having a greater impact in all areas of science,
from climate modeling to environmental modeling to biological modeling to
national security," said Jack Dongarra, a supercomputer expert at the University
of Tennessee.

Coupled with immensely complex software, the machines enable scientists to make
more detailed models of the natural world, sorting through mountains of research
data to find new patterns and thus new knowledge on topics as varied as
nanotechnology, the origins of the universe and the roots of common illnesses.

"This is the most exciting time in history to be a computational scientist
because of these new instruments that are coming into the fold," said Omar
Ghattas, an Earth scientist and computational science expert at UT's Institute
for Computational and Engineering Sciences.

Until recently, Austin was a relative backwater in the field. The arrival of
Ranger, prompted by UT's determination to keep pace with top research
universities, is but one sign of a major turnaround.

Another is just across the street from Ranger in North Austin. In a dowdy,
1960s-era structure known as Building 45, hundreds of IBM Corp.'s top chip and
computer engineers are helping design a machine labeled Blue Waters, which will
introduce fundamental changes in how supercomputers work and will perform at
about 30 times Ranger's level when it's built in three years.

These separate, high-profile projects, along with advances by chipmaker Advanced
Micro Devices Inc., Dell Inc. and others, reflect the city's emergence in the
past decade as a key center for innovative data-crunching technology that could
help solve some of the biggest challenges facing mankind.

Though scientific supercomputers have been around for more than three decades,
today's machines, fueled by dramatic leaps in performance of microprocessor
chips, are vastly more powerful. Ranger, for example, packs about five times
more punch than the top science research computers that came before it. The
machine has a peak performance of about 504 trillion operations per second,
which means it is about 30,000 times more powerful than a typical modern desktop
computer.

Unlike the "big iron" supercomputers of past decades, which linked vast
circuitry in a single large highly customized box, many modern supercomputers
are collections of hundreds or thousands of smaller computers, or "nodes," each
of which resembles a high-performance server computer that might go into a
corporate data center or "server farm." The nodes are linked by super-fast
communications switches that enable the different nodes to work together and
share results.

Researchers with extremely complex problems flock to the new machines to tap
their number-crunching power. Ghattas says Ranger will enable him to run
earthquake projections that deliver twice as much "resolution" as he could
previously get with less powerful machines.

Ranger's giant brain is now helping with about 150 research projects involving
more than 800 scientists, a number that will top 1,000 by the end of this year.
They are investigating everything from the internal control mechanisms in human
cells to a more detailed picture of star formation in the first billion years
after the Big Bang.

While some subjects, such as the early cosmos, might yield few practical
benefits in the short term, Ranger could pay dividends in treatment of disease,
in discovery of new drugs, in better understanding of climate change and violent
weather and in development of nanomaterials - including substances that exhibit
unique properties when manipulated on a microscopic scale.

"The computer is a kind of microscope," said Klaus Schulten, a University of
Illinois biophysicist whose team uses Ranger. "The data that we work with are
very complicated. We need the computer to look through the data. Without it, we
are totally blind."

Schulten's 40-person team is out to discover essential processes that enable
human cells to repair themselves. The team's computer models and findings have
been used by thousands of other researchers to further their own research. The
work is expected to be a foundation for potential new treatments of diseases,
including Alzheimer's.

Ranger might well have been built at some other school were it not for Jay
Boisseau, who runs the Texas Advanced Computing Center on the north side Pickle
campus. UT hired the brash, energetic Boisseau in 2001 after it was told it
could not meet its goal of being a top-ranking research university without a
top-ranking computing center.

"Jay has put Austin on the map," said Larry Smarr, a computer researcher at the
University of California at San Diego's highly regarded computing center, where
Boisseau worked before coming to UT.

Boisseau's new team won a stiff competition for a $59 million National Science
Foundation grant to build Ranger and run it and provide support for researchers
for four years.

The computer ­­- consisting of nearly 4,000 smaller computers plus other
equipment in about 6,000 square feet of floor space, roughly the size of three
average homes - was built by Sun Microsystems. The smaller units use advanced,
designed-in-Austin processors made by Advanced Micro Devices, which also works
closely with supercomputer maker Cray Inc.

For Boisseau, the 2006 grant was as sweet as the Longhorns' Rose Bowl win to
secure the national football championship earlier that year.

"We are instrumental in making sure the best science in the world gets done
here," he said.

That science will be done by corporations as well as by academics. UT's
computing center currently has fewer than 10 commercial clients; the goal is 20.
A key condition is that their projects benefit the university as well as the
company.

A few scientists grumble privately that supercomputing has become a tail that
wags the dog: The availability of research funds tied to the big computers
unduly influences decisions about which projects to pursue. Supercomputer
advocates counter that they are an enormously productive investment because they
do work in so many different fields, and the work they do can't be done any
other way.

Like a No. 1 football ranking, the biggest-hardware title can't be held forever.
A supercomputer nicknamed "Kraken" will be built this year at Oak Ridge National
Laboratory in Tennessee under another National Science Foundation grant, and
awards for two more machines are in the works. They all are expected to deliver
performance that is slightly higher than Ranger's.

Those, in turn, will be left far behind by Blue Waters. Though IBM-Austin has a
significant piece of that $208 million, federally funded project, the computer
will be owned and operated by the University of Illinois' National Center for
Supercomputing Applications.

The machine will depend on IBM's next-generation Power7 processor, which is
still in development in Austin. Like Sun, IBM is attempting to expand
supercomputer sales beyond the handful of federal contracts by selling to
companies that need high-end machines, including those involved in petroleum
exploration, aerospace engineering and Internet commerce.

Blue Waters is "a moon-shot kind of effort," said Ravi Arimilli, a key player in
the project and one of a handful of technical workers in Austin who has been
designated an IBM Fellow, the company's highest technical honor.

IBM and Sun are among a group of companies actively developing high-performance
computers from high-volume commercial processor chips.

For its part, Dell has pursued sales of large technical computers for nearly a
decade and says it has 24 systems among the 500 top-performing supercomputers.
The company recently announced the installation of a major research computer at
Purdue University.

At the start of this decade, federal money for supercomputers was intended
primarily for nuclear weapons research. Scientists such as Ghattas noted that
U.S. computers for academic science were falling behind.

The performance of Japan's Earth Simulator, completed in 2002 for an estimated
$350 million, put all American computers in the shade, which in turn raised
concerns in Congress.

"The notion that we were no longer No. 1 " did prompt the examination of whether
we were doing enough," said Daniel Atkins, director of the National Science
Foundation's Office of Cyber Infrastructure.

By 2005, the foundation had new financial support from Congress and announced it
would spend nearly half a billion dollars on open science supercomputers.
Scientists who want to use these machines must get permission from a foundation
panel.

The results of the new federal money include Ranger, Kraken and Blue Waters,
which are bargains in comparison with the Japanese model, in part because of the
relentless advance of technology. Today's consumer desktops deliver more
performance than the most powerful machines did 25 years ago. Ranger, built six
years later than Earth Simulator with cheaper, more advanced chip technology, is
several times faster, Boisseau estimates.

Now the challenge is harnessing that power.

Software for standard computers proceeds in sequence, step-by-step. But a
supercomputer uses a complex kind of software called massively parallel
programming, which distributes parts of a computing job among the hundreds or
thousands of smaller "node" units in a supercomputer. Many scientists lack the
software skills needed for that kind of programming.

For any open science computing center, a major part of the mission is helping
researchers get their software application ready to run on a big machine.
Collaboration among researchers also helps bridge the gap. For example, Ghattas,
who is using Ranger for his own Earth science research, is also assisting
Blankenship's team on developing a model the West Antarctic Ice Sheet.

"There are many researchers - in geosciences, mathematical and physical
sciences, polar programs and engineering - all these researchers are itching to
get on this thing," Ghattas said. "We have gotten this machine, and now we've
got to deliver."

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Agency staff: Nuclear dump bid inadequate

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1414 words


Hoping to end two years of back-and-forth about its plan to bury radioactive
waste in West Texas, the company Waste Control Specialists organized a meeting
in September 2006 with state regulators and its engineering consultant,
Washington Group International .

In the balance were lingering health and environmental issues and a lucrative
radioactive waste market.

The company and its consultant sought to change the approval process for the
disposal of radioactive byproducts of Cold World era uranium processing, but
they were unsuccessful, according to an internal memo written by a state
radiation expert after the meeting.

"Staff listened to their ideas and agreed that discussions were always welcome,
but the review process and regulatory rules that we work under were not open to
negotiation or change," wrote Gary Smith , one of the people responsible for
assessing radiation safety for the state health department.

But WCS continued submitting material to the state, and in October 2007, Glenn
Shankle, executive director of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality,
issued the company a preliminary license. He did so despite warnings as late as
September from state staff members that the politically connected company had
not satisfactorily addressed issues relating to the geology, groundwater and
high winds of West Texas. A final decision on the byproduct dump must come by
the end of this year.

The staff reports were part of an American-Statesman open records request filed
in January.

Shankle issued a preliminary decision supporting the draft license after his
staff "performed a thorough technical review of the license application for
by-product material disposal," said Terry Clawson, a spokesman for the agency.

The dumping of the waste could begin as early as spring 2009.

Rodney Baltzer , president of WCS , said about the application, "There was no
nefarious plot to change rules to our advantage, and at the end of the day
they're the regulators, and they'll make the decision."

He said the company has spent at least $3 million since September 2007 to
address issues of concern .

"It might not be the best, well-organized, easy reading, but all the information
is definitely there," he said of the packed binders assembled for the
application. "There will be no long-term effects on people in this area. We're
not going to do anything that damages our employees or their families."

The commission staff disagreed, according to memos. One technical review said
the company hadn't thoroughly explained how employees would be tested to
determine if they had been contaminated by radiation.

"They did not and do not recognize the agency's responsibility to evaluate their
application," said Patricia Bobeck , a geologist who retired from the commission
in September.

Waste Control Specialists wants to bury 3,776 canisters of radioactive waste
from an Ohio uranium processing plant at its remote, 14,900-acre former ranch in
Andrews, near the Texas-New Mexico border. Each canister is about 61/2 feet high
and wide, weighing about 20,000 pounds and covered in a half-inch of steel.
Inside is a concretelike mixture of radioactive waste and fly ash.

Eventually, WCS could also bury radioactive byproducts from uranium mining on
the site.

WCS is owned by investor Harold Simmons , whose political contributions to Gov.
Rick Perry since 2001 have totaled more than $500,000. Texans for Public
Justice, a nonprofit that tracks political donations, says Simmons was the
third-largest contributor to Perry in the 2006 election cycle .

Perry has appointed all three of the agency's environmental commissioners, who
will eventually decide the fate of the canisters.

The governor's office said he will not weigh in on the decision. "The governor
trusts that the TCEQ commissioners will make the right choice in this matter and
all other ones that come before them," said Krista Piferrer, a spokeswoman for
Perry.

The proposal for the byproduct waste disposal site, paired with an application
by WCS to bury low-level radioactive waste on an adjacent piece of property,
points to the profitability of disposing of radioactive material.

The low-level dump could be used to bury radioactively contaminated trash such
as rags, syringes and protective clothing from nuclear plants or hospitals.

The federal Environmental Protection Agency predicts about 141 million cubic
feet of such waste will be generated nationally between 2010 and 2020.

A low-level radioactive waste dump in South Carolina will close this year to
most states, opening the way for Texas to get a share of the lucrative market.

Chem-Nuclear, which operates the South Carolina site, charges on average $1,500
to dispose of each cubic foot of low-level radioactive waste, company
spokeswoman Deborah Ogilvie said.

In November, the Sierra Club wrote a letter to the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality arguing that the agency had essentially put the cart
before the horse, in issuing a license based on "an incomplete and contradictory
application, usually taking the applicant's explanation at face value."

"The applicant is treating the site as if it were a standard hazardous waste
landfill and not a disposal site with long-term radioactive waste material,"
wrote Ken Kramer, director of the Lone Star chapter of the Sierra Club.

But Andrews public officials support the plans, which they say will add to the
tax base and bring in high-tech jobs.

At the site, WCS now disposes of hazardous waste, and stores and treats some
radioactive waste. It employs almost 100 people and has an annual payroll of
$4.7 million. In the Andrews area, long an oil-rich part of the state, nuclear
power is becoming increasingly important. Across from the WCS property,
Louisiana Energy Services is building a uranium enrichment facility.

But questions among regulators have persisted.

In July 2007, a commission memo said the application submitted by WCS has
incomplete erosion monitoring data. The application was pockmarked with
"contradictions and data inadequacies," wrote agency consultant Thomas Gustavson
in a report that addressed the company's erosion monitoring.

A report by two state geologists in late August said the application "contains
inconsistencies and contradictions and lack of detailed geologic data," and
therefore did not comply with state law.

In a third memo, staff engineer Lou Gloystein wrote that the application is
"fragmented" and contains "significant errata."

"Scenarios presented as worst case impacts relating to the critical issues of
rainfall capture and management, and particulate air emission rates appear to be
understated, and are difficult to follow," he wrote.

Though the design of the byproduct dump presents "no insurmountable civil
engineering challenges and should, in fact, prove straightforward to build and
operate," Roger Vaughan, another engineer, wrote in September, WCS had not
"effectively addressed wind borne particulate issues. In particular, do the high
west Texas winds pick up loose byproduct material in the landfill and disperse
it around the site? If so, this has the potential of contaminating the entire
site and would require all surface run off " to be handled differently than
currently designed."

The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has declined to release the entire
contents of an October memo from Susan Jablonski, director of the agency's
radioactive material division, to Dan Eden, a deputy director in the agency's
permitting division before the draft permit was issued.

In a letter to the state attorney general's office, the commission said the memo
"reflects preliminary advice, opinion, and recommendations of the staff" that
are covered by the "deliberative process privilege." The attorney general's
office hasn't made a ruling.

In a filing Friday that responded to comments about the preliminary license,
Shankle defended WCS' application. "No area's geology and hydrology can be known
or characterized with 100 percent certainty," he wrote. WCS' application
provided "adequate information on the characterization of the meteorology and
climate of the proposed site, including wind and rain events."

He said West Texas' winds should be of little consequence to the byproduct dump
because the draft license requires the material to be in containers.

"Wind dispersal and run-off containing radioactive and hazardous constituents
should be minimized," he wrote.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

(GRAPHIC)

Application for radioactive waste dump (see microfilm)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

how to turn an ice sheet into code

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 511 words


How do you create computer software that shows how an ice sheet might change
decades from now?

In a sense, it's a puzzle as enormous as the ice sheet itself. And by some
estimates, the West Antarctic Ice Sheet has more than half a million cubic miles
of ice.

Ice sheets are pulled downhill by gravity. They also are subject to shearing -
or splitting - as some sections slide downhill faster than others.

Ice sheets are chilled by snowfall but warmed by both the earth beneath them and
the friction from sliding. When conditions are right, ice melts and water
collects at the bottom of the sheet. Because ice sheets are subject to physical
laws of gravity, momentum, shearing and heat flow (causing differing
temperatures within the ice), those interrelated forces can be expressed in a
series of equations for any point in and on the ice.

Those equations can be expressed in software as a "model" that attempts to
describe the forces that affect the ice sheet's many different movements.
Because conditions at the top of the ice and at the bottom can vary greatly, and
the equations are very sensitive to these differences, the results for different
parts of the ice sheets can vary dramatically. The software model takes into
account how the stresses and strains operating at different parts of the ice
sheet affect the "behavior" of other parts of the ice. Estimating the forces at
work for one point of the ice doesn't take much computer power. But estimating
the interrelated forces that affect billions of points in the ice can take a
very large computer.

Because University of Texas researchers have such detailed measurements of the
thickness and the conditions at the base of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, they
need a more complex and accurate computer model that takes into account such
factors as the smoothness of the ground underneath parts of the ice sheet and
the size and location of pockets of water at the base. Once an initial model is
created, a supercomputer is required to run the model many times, while
adjusting its inputs, until it fits the observed data.

Then things can really get complex. The UT team has data for layers within the
ice (caused by volcanic ash falling on its surface in the past) that are warped
by movement of the ice sheet at different times in the past.

Running the model through time until the past movements it predicts match the
shape of the layers we see today is expected to be a very long job on a very
large computer, such as UT's Ranger. Once the UT team has a good feel for how it
can approximate the ice sheet's past movements, it can run its model forward in
time and make estimates of what the ice sheet is likely to do under different
climate conditions.

When that more accurate model for the West Antarctic Ice Sheet is understood, UT
researcher Don Blankenship said, other Earth scientists will take that
information to create better estimates of how much the ice sheet's movement is
likely to contribute to rising world sea levels over the next centuries based on
various predictions of global climate conditions.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 21, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Brackenridge's overlooked lab

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN EDITORIAL AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 482 words


In the intense discussions over the future of the University of Texas'
Brackenridge tract along Lady Bird Lake in West Austin, the Lions Municipal Golf
Course has drawn the most attention.

Golfers and neighbors are stirring the pot to keep the course, known as Muny,
open for duffers who like the course and the inexpensive cost to play. "Save
Muny" bumper stickers can already be seen around town.

Somewhat overlooked in the conversation about the land is the only academic
operation on the 346-acre tract, the Brackenridge Field Laboratory on Lake
Austin Boulevard. The 88-acre lab is a valuable part of the integrative biology
program, the most highly ranked of UT's life science programs.

At the lab, undergraduate and graduate students have studied ecology, climate
change and the evolution of plant and animal species over a 40-year time span.
That's where the flies that attack fire ants were used in experiments and where
a wasp that attacks an invasive species of cane grass is being studied.

Four decades of observation and experimentation have produced a valuable
database for biologists and ecologists. The lab's urban setting and close
proximity to the university and a major bus line make it a unique habitat for
academic field studies. It is considered one of the most intensely used field
laboratories in the country.

But the lab's future is in doubt as the university considers a higher use for
the Brackenridge tract. A task force appointed by the UT regents last year
recommended developing the tract but offered no suggestions about what should be
done with the field lab. So its future is unknown.

The university and the New York firm it hired to plan redevelopment of the
parcel, Cooper, Robertson & Partners, shouldn't dismiss the field lab as
unimportant or easily relocated. Its urban, waterfront location and four-decade
history of habitat observation and experimentation cannot be easily duplicated
elsewhere.

In fact, there is a strong argument to be made that the field lab should be
expanded because it is unique and so valuable to UT's life sciences programs.
Also, the lab attracts about $4 million a year in grants to study climate,
habitat and ecology.

Supporters of the field lab have a real challenge in explaining its value to the
planners, regents, other university administrators and even the state
Legislature. Those interests are looking at the Brackenridge property for its
economic value - how much money UT can reap - so the lab's academic importance
may be overlooked or unappreciated. Dollar signs have a way of clouding the
vision.

Cooper, Robertson will hold another public session on the Brackenridge tract on
Aug. 12, followed by workshops in November. All who recognize the value of the
field lab and believe in its mission should get involved now in the planning
process.

There aren't any "Save the Lab" bumper stickers out yet, but maybe there will
be.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 28, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THE WEEK AHEAD

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 320 words


TODAY

State of the Union: President Bush sketches plans for his final year in office.

TUESDAY

Presidential vote: Florida primary is crunch time for GOP candidate Rudy
Giuliani, who has focused on the state as rivals have competed in earlier
contests.

New music: Releases from Willie Nelson, Shelby Lynne, Kate Walsh and Mars Volta.

Mexico travel: VivaAerobus discloses schedule and fares for its air service from
Austin to several Mexican cities.

WEDNESDAY

Fed meets: Will banking officials further reduce interest rates after last
week's cut?

Climate talks: Opening of White House-sponsored climate change summit in Hawaii,
the U.S. response to the Kyoto process.

\u2191 Men's basketball: Texas and Texas A&M collide in College Station. 8 p.m.,
ESPN2 .

THURSDAY

Border crossings: For the first time, U.S., Canadian and Bermudan citizens 19
and older must present government photo ID and some other proof of citizenship
to enter U.S. at land or sea port.

Tax deadline: Last day for homeowners to pay property taxes without penalties.

The Bangles: Girl group

at La Zona Rosa, 8 p.m.

FRIDAY

Humanitarian speaks: John Howe, president of international aid program Project
HOPE, lectures about global health. 10:30 a.m., Lone Star Room, Erwin Center.

Jobs assessment: U.S. reports on job growth and unemployment for January.

'Cowboy Noises': Jaston Williams of 'Tuna' fame in one-man show. 8 p.m. Friday
and Saturday, Paramount Theatre.

New movies: 'Honeydripper,' with Austin's Gary Clark Jr., and 'Persepolis' open.

SATURDAY

Groundhog Day

Men's basketball: Texas hosts Baylor. 12:45 p.m., KNVA.

Carnival, Austin-style: Samba, costumes and the Brasileiro spirit. $35. 9 p.m.,
Palmer Events Center.

SUNDAY

Super Bowl: Can the Patriots achieve perfection? Will New York pull off a Giant
upset? Will the commercials be the big winners? It's America's football holiday.
5 p.m., Fox.

Women's basketball: Oklahoma faces Texas at Erwin Center. 1 p.m.,

ESPNU .

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Debut of 'Ranger,' UT's world-class supercomputer, draws a crowd

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 213 words


Tech leaders, scientists and other dignitaries came to Austin on Friday to get a
closer look at the powerful new supercomputer that went into operation this
month at the University of Texas' J.J. Pickle Research Campus.

"Ranger," backed by a $59 million grant from the National Science Foundation, is
the world's most powerful computer, dedicated to open science research.

The machine, built by Sun Microsystems Inc., is housed at the Texas Advanced
Computing Center, which serves both UT and a national research network called
the TeraGrid.

Scientists say the powerful machine should speed up studies in fields including
climate research, astrophysics and energy research.

Friday's dedication event included Sun Microsystems chief executive Jonathan
Schwartz and Hector Ruiz, chief executive of Advanced Micro Devices Inc., which
has 16,000 advanced chips in Ranger.

"This really was our national championship," computing center Director Jay
Boisseau said of the campaign to win the grant for Ranger and put it into
operation.

More than 500 scientists from around the world are involved in research using
Ranger.

Sun will add more computing power to Ranger in the next month or so to help
scientists with the task of visualizing vast amounts of data.

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

UNDER THE DOME

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 429 words


CHAT PLAGUED BY INTERFERENCE

Toppling Web cams and tidal waves of static laid siege to U.S. Senate hopeful
Rick Noriega's virtual town hall meeting with Texans on Friday afternoon.

State Rep. Noriega, D-Houston, started the webcast by recapping the energy
policy he first presented last week, but static soon drowned out his voice and
town hall participants in an online chat room started electronically wincing in
pain.

Order was restored minutes later, but the webcam in front of Noriega soon
toppled over, a staff member's finger appeared onscreen blocking out Noriega's
face, and the static kept coming back, drowning out Noriega's responses to
questions posed by chat room participants.

Responses from the chat room: "Who broke the Internet"

"Has (Republican U.S. Sen. John) Cornyn zapped this conference setup?"

"OH NO static."

­- David Shieh

WILLIAMSON ON A BLUE STREAK?

When we noticed a Facebook group for the Williamson County Young Democrats, our
first thought was, "Really?" This is a county, after all, where 65 percent of
voters supported George W. Bush for president in 2004. Unlike its blue neighbor
Travis County, where the state senator and state representatives all have
"D-Austin" after their names, WillCo is represented by only Republicans at the
state Capitol.

But it turns out that the Williamson County Young Democrats' Facebook group,
which had 30 members as of Friday morning, outnumbered the Williamson County
Young Republicans' Facebook group, which had seven.

Who knows if that's a signal about the future of politics in the county - or
just an indication of who's on Facebook?

- Corrie MacLaggan

ANTI-BUSH BUS COMING TO AUSTIN

The Bush Legacy Tour Bus, sponsored by Bush opponents, is making a stop from 4
to 6 p.m. Tuesday at the AFL-CIO's Austin headquarters at 1106 Lavaca St.

The tour, financed by Americans United for Change, a union group, began June 24
and expects to visit more than 40 states by Election Day.

The red, black and blue bus is a 45-foot interactive museum to remind Americans
with short-term memory loss about the Iraq war, climate change, the aftermath of
Hurricane Katrina and the state of the economy, among other issues.

Really, a bus at today's gas prices? Actually, the bus uses biodiesel
(naturally), which is even more expensive than gasoline.

Julie Blust, the on-board press spokeswoman, says she's not sure what a fill-up
costs, but she thinks it's north of $600. "Our bus driver knows the sticker
shock," she said. "It's not going on my credit card!"

Maybe next time they should consider a hybrid and a slide show.

- Laylan Copelin

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Adults pay attention; Campbell kids excel

BYLINE: Molly Bloom AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1256 words


After a carefully scheduled day of math in large and small groups, reading,
science, lunch and storytime, Campbell Elementary School teacher Peggy Nichols
congratulated her kindergartners on a hard day's work. At a nod from Nichols,
the children broke into their version of the familiar stadium chant: "Nah, nah,
nah, nah. Nah, nah, nah, nah. Hey, hey, hey - good job."

"We get to sing it a lot, don't we?" Nichols asked them.

For students and teachers, the message at Campbell starts early: High
performance is both expected and valued. This year, Campbell received an "A+"
under the state accountability system, the "exemplary" rating earned by only 12
percent of schools statewide in 2008.

Campbell, which is attended almost entirely by African American and Hispanic
students from poor families, is the first elementary school in East Austin to
have received the rating since 2003. Austin school district officials will help
Campbell celebrate at the school tonight .

The challenges ahead, campus and district officials say, are keeping the title
and replicating Campbell's success at other schools.

Elementary schools earn the exemplary rating by having at least 90 percent of
third-, fourth- and fifth-graders pass the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and
Skills in each subject and for each student group.

Campbell's success could yield lessons for the 82,500-student Austin district,
in which a growing number of schools are subject to possible sanctions for
failing to meet state achievement goals.

Eleven of the 113 Austin campuses rated this year earned the lowest rating of
"academically unacceptable." That's up from nine campuses in 2007 and six in
2006.

Floretta Andrews, the principal who led Campbell to its exemplary rating, was
transferred at the end of last school year to Norman Elementary School, which is
in its second year of receiving the state's lowest rating. Andrews will try to
replicate Campbell's success at Norman, while interim Campbell Principal Dovie
Boykins, who taught at Campbell for 15 years, strives to sustain Campbell's
success.

Boykins said one of the school's goals is to boost science scores. Campbell's
passing rates in science were below the level required for an exemplary rating
but close enough for the state to make an exception this year.

The district plans to hire a permanent principal for Campbell by January; the
next round of TAKS tests start in March.

Nichols, the kindergarten teacher who has taught at Campbell for 17 years, is
confident that the school can reach exemplary status again.

"We, as a campus, believe that our students can and will be successful, and it
is our job to make that happen," she said. "No one teacher or administrator is
responsible for that success. It takes all of us working together."

Administrator: School wasn't moving forward

Campbell wasn't a bad school, said Andrews, a former Bailey Middle School
sixth-grade teacher and Blackshear Elementary School assistant principal. It was
consistently rated "academically acceptable," the equivalent of a C, and was
named a national Blue Ribbon School in 1997. But, she said, it wasn't moving
forward.

When Andrews, a former Air Force brat, moved into Campbell's principal's office
in 2001, she worked with her staff, from teachers to custodians, to create daily
schedules that formalized how much time teachers spent on each subject or
activity each day. Assemblies not directly related to classroom learning were
scheduled for the end of the school day. Campus-wide meetings were kept to a
minimum.

"It was my goal to put a hedge around my teachers' time," Andrews said.

By 2005, when Trina Barrett was looking for a teaching job, with a brand new
master's degree in hand, Campbell had become a school where many of Barrett's
peers wanted to teach, she said.

The school's "family atmosphere," in which faculty, parents and staff worked as
a team to support students, was a big draw, said Barrett, a fourth-grade teacher
at Campbell.

She said that equally important was Andrews' willingness to get teachers the
resources they needed, including books to fill the nearly empty shelves of a
library for struggling readers and substitutes for classroom teachers who needed
time to plan with their colleagues.

In a 2008 district survey of Austin elementary schools, Campbell ranked
significantly higher than 63 of the district's 78 elementary schools in staff
perceptions of campus climate, support by administrators, collegial
relationships with colleagues, and high expectations of students, parents and
co-workers.

High marks for campus climate are more closely correlated with high student test
scores than a host of other factors, including family income level, according to
a district study released last week.

Barrett said she wasn't surprised by the study's results: "If teachers feel
valued, if you create the right environment, then (high student performance)
will happen."

Instruction is tailored to each student's level

Campbell illustrates many of the characteristics of successful urban schools,
said Sherry Field, an associate dean at the University of Texas's Urban
Education Pilot Program, which prepares teachers to work in schools with higher
proportions of students from poor families, students with limited English skills
and students living in higher crime areas.

Instruction at Campbell is tailored to each student's level. Teachers frequently
evaluate how well students are learning, and staff and faculty work to ensure
children feel valued and safe and to get parents involved.

In Austin, most schools with high proportions of students from poor families
employ paid parent support specialists to serve as liaisons to families,
organize workshops for families and school staff and take on other duties as
necessary.

At Campbell, parent support specialist Pamela McKinney connects parents with
food banks, helps them find jobs and makes sure they feel welcome at school by
leading them into morning meetings, for example. Parents who better their own
lives, and who are able to take care of their families' basic needs, are better
able to help their children succeed in school, she said.

McKinney, who also acts as a surrogate mother on campus, said children who feel
their school's teachers and staff care for them do better in school. She brings
students who missed school breakfast into her office for a quick bowl of cold
cereal. She keeps a private bathroom stocked with toothbrushes, baby wipes and
powder for children who don't arrive at school clean and properly dressed. And
cabinets in her office, called the parent center, are fully stocked with
children's clothes in a range of sizes.

To some, providing a change of clothes or a late breakfast might not seem to
help a student ace a math or reading test. But ensuring students feel valued is
an important part of making a school, particularly an urban school, successful,
Field said, partly because it encourages parents to support the school.

"When students feel supported and loved, you can imagine that it's much easier
for their parents to look upon a school as a favorable place," she said.

Campbell parent Jammie Winn , who spent a few hours in the school's parent
center this week folding clothes and filing papers, said that after seeing how
teachers treated her 9-year-old daughter, she had no hesitations about sending
her younger, 5-year-old daughter to school with her.

"I absolutely wanted to send my baby here," she said.

mbloom@statesman.com; 445-3620

(Graphic box: see microfilm)

Campbell's success

Campbell Elementary School rated 'exemplary'

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2008



CORRECTION: * A story on Thursday's Page One incorrectly reported that Campbell
Elementary School was the first elementary school in East Austin since 2003 to
receive the state's 'exemplary' rating. It is the first East Austin school in
the Austin district to receive that rating. The University of Texas Elementary
School , a charter school in East Austin, was also rated exemplary in 2007.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 26, 2008 Sunday
                               Zone Combo Edition

A Raw gem revisited

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. J01

LENGTH: 1099 words


The Raw Deal was a steamy, scruffy joint at the eastern edge of downtown Austin
- a bottled-beer and pork chop kind of place, fancy as a border cantina, with a
jukebox that played nothing but vintage instrumental music. There were 10
tables, maybe. Six stools at the bar. Steaks cost a couple of bucks. The air
conditioning worked sometimes.

You're familiar with the gleaming new downtown shopping district, with its cafes
and high fashion? The Raw Deal, circa 1976-1981, was the antithesis of that.
There was no wall separating the grill and the dining room. Patrons ate in the
kitchen, in the truest sense.

The Raw Deal didn't greet you with open arms. Rather, it dared you to accept it
on its own terms. Its motto: You've found the Raw Deal. The Raw Deal didn't come
looking for you. Despite its location - just footsteps away from Sixth Street,
at 605 Sabine St. - the place had an out-of-the-way feel to it. Among its
neighbors: Dave Lofton's junk store and Austin Stove Repair.

Yet in its moment, the Raw Deal was a quintessential Austin hangout, beloved by
the left-leaning cadre of writers and politicians and students and thinkers that
adopted it as their home. It was, first and foremost, a smart place - a
hard-drinking watering hole, for sure, but also something of a kitchen-table
salon. Writers Bud Shrake and Gary Cartwright and Billy Lee Brammer hung out
there. The photographer Russell Lee went there. Civil rights attorney David
Richards and his first wife, Ann Richards, were regulars. Politicos Bob
Armstrong and Jim Hightower knew it well. So did journalist Kaye Northcott and
writer/photographer Bill Wittliff. So did the freewheeling Jerry Jeff Walker,
who became the object of the Raw Deal's "no guitars inside" house rule.

"It was a hysterically funny place - and that's why I went," recalls Sandy
Richards, who was known as Sandy Hauser before her marriage to David Richard 25
years ago. She was a University of Texas student, a dietetics intern at
Brackenridge Hospital, when she discovered the Raw Deal in the late 1970s.
"Whenever I wanted a good belly laugh, I trucked on down. It was a great place
for a nightcap, and a great place to spend a summer afternoon.

"There was always a little gang that clamored around that little shoeshine stand
outside the front door, having serious discourse about politics, about things
that mattered. Talk about a time of change! It was an exciting time (the late
1970s, during the Carter presidency), great music all around us, and that crowd
was at the heart of the movement. The Raw Deal was one of several little Austin
places - Mike and Charlie's, the Cedar Door, Scholz Garten - that attracted
people with fertile minds."

Eddie Wilson, the Austin dreamer who founded the Armadillo World Headquarters,
opened the Raw Deal in late 1976. He liked the idea of operating something small
and personal for a change, while taking with him the irreverence and political
edge from the Armadillo. At the Raw Deal, Wilson fancied himself as a
short-order cook who doubled as a producer of social-political theater. He hung
a huge Adlai Stevenson banner in the front window, sold "Idi Amin for
comptroller" T-shirts to mock then-State Comptroller Bob Bullock, and derided
anyone (especially Texas Monthly) who designated the Raw Deal as a trendy place
in print. He stocked Lone Star Draft, in cans, simply so he could list it by the
initials "LSD" on the menu.

In 1978, Wilson sold the Raw Deal to Fletcher Boone and Jim Smithum (aka Lopez),
free spirits from Wichita Falls who'd been regulars at the joint from the
beginning and had always wanted to run it as their own. "At a time when I was
pretty defensive about leaving the Armadillo, the Raw Deal was my effort at
having an offensive comedy club where I took no (bull) off anybody," says
Wilson, who would open Threadgill's restaurant after leaving the Raw Deal. "But
I got over that feeling pretty fast, and then Fletcher and Lopez took up my
offer to take the stage. They were magnificent. They performed like champions."

At the Raw Deal, Boone and Lopez assumed the roles of court jester and the
curmudgeon. Boone had a feckless, artistic temperment; he'd been a promising
sculptor as a young man. More beatnik than hippie, he was a debonair,
devil-may-care guy who was comfortable wearing a beret in a town filled with
cowboy hats. Lopez, in contrast, played the role of the grouch, often greeting
customers with a wry, disconsolate, "Oh, it's you" as they entered into his
domain. He was well-read. He loved writers. Lopez had befriended Brammer,
Cartwright and Shrake in the 1960s, before he'd even moved to Ausitn, while
working for an advertising agency in Dallas.

Despite their joyful disregard for business acumen - what? food to go? numbered
receipt tickets? - Boone and Lopez opened a second enterprise, Another Raw Deal
, in the early 1980s. This second site (in the building we know today as Z
Tejas) was a classy, well-mannered cousin compared with the raucous original,
which the partners closed, reluctantly, in 1981. Even so, Another Raw Deal, with
its more refined menu and spacious dining area, took over as a hangout of choice
for the same crowd until it closed during the Austin real estate bust of the
mid-1980s.

Over the next two decades, Dorothy Browne (once the wife of Billy Lee Brammer,
and today married to the writer Jan Reid) frequently asked her close friend
Fletcher Boone about the framed, black-and-white photographs of famous patrons
that hung on the restaurant walls. She was worried about their survival, because
she thought of these photos - pictures of Russell Lee, of John Henry Faulk, of
Ann Richards and Bob Bullock - as invaluable snapshots of Austin social history.

"I don't have them," Boone told her. "I think they're in storage somewhere."
Sure enough: A few months after Boone's death in 2007, his daughter Lily found
five boxes of framed photographs in a non-climate-controlled storage shed and
brought them over to Browne's house. The grand plan is to pass them on to the
Wittliff Collections at Texas State University-San Marcos.

"A lot of people thought of the Raw Deal as a 'Third Place' - not your home, not
your workplace, but a community place filled with the people you love to talk
to," says Browne. "And you know what? A lot of people never found another 'Third
Place' after the Raw Deal closed its doors."

bbuchholz@statesman.com;

912-2967

Photo credits
 Many people shot photos at the Raw Deal. But no photographer names were on the
 photos taken from the walls, and efforts to identify them were unsuccessful,
except No. 9, by Steve Clark.



LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

India's layers of flavor

BYLINE: ADDIE BROYLES AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 2712 words


Chaya Rao's pantry must be the envy of her Southwest Austin neighbors.

In it you'll find dozens of containers, from small plastic ones holding delicate
spices she's carried back from her trips home to India to large bins of rice and
lentils bought at Costco. On her kitchen counter is a set of metal bowls in a
metal tray, called masala dabba, which translates to "spice box," in which she
stores the brown, orange, yellow and red powders that hold the smells and
flavors of her native country: chili powder, turmeric, coriander, cumin, garam
masala.

In another tray, a different set of spices, lentils and leaves reflects the
regional flavors of her homeland: black mustard seeds, cumin seeds, asafetida,
curry leaves, urad dal, channa dal.

"All these spices have some healing (effects) in ancient Indian science of
medicine," she says as she arranges the ingredients to make a traditional Indian
meal. She recalls a Hindu proverb: "A wise speaker keeps conflicts away; a wise
eater keeps sickness away."

Although Indian food, as well as other cultural traditions such as yoga and
henna, has grown popular in the U.S., few home cooks attempt to make it. So Rao,
37, relishes her role as an ambassador for the cuisine of her native country as
a cooking instructor at Central Market and Whole Foods Market. Her classes,
which started about year ago, are an entry point for those wanting to try their
hand at home with samosas, dosas, dals, curries and chutneys.

As she begins a traditional Indian meal, she starts what is called vagaar, the
process of heating oil, then throwing in spices from her masala dabba such as
turmeric or mustard seeds, which flavor the oil. Then she adds beans, rice,
meat, tofu or vegetables. Vagaar is the foundation of nearly every Indian dish.

But it is the less-tangible chaat, the lip-smacking goodness that elevates food
from mere nourishment, that drives Rao's philosophy of cooking. Chaat, which is
also the name for street food found throughout India, refers to combining
various textures and flavors to create a complex feeling in your mouth. Rao
loves creating texture and taste variations and finding ways to make dishes that
are sweet, salty, sour, smooth, crunchy and spicy at the same time.

"That's what makes my dishes successful," she says. "Each part of your tongue
keeps getting surprised. " You can apply chaat to TexMex, Thai, Italian,
anything."

Rao has been cooking since she was a 9-year-old growing up in Karnataka, a state
in Southern Indian where many of her family members still live. She moved to
Minnesota in 1994, where she received her master's degree in computer science
and met and married her husband a few years later. They moved to Austin in 2003.

She recently cut back her hours as a software instructor to make room for more
cooking classes. Most sell out, which has encouraged her to consider making a
career out of the classes.

Rao is a lifelong vegetarian. Meat isn't a daily staple in Indian cuisine, even
for meat eaters, and many rely on lentils or beans for protein for economic,
religious and health reasons. To avoid bean burnout, Rao changes their textures,
blending lentils into a soup one night and combining edamame with rice the next.

A typical day's meals for Rao's family might include a savory breakfast called
upma, made of lentils and sooji (semolina similar to Cream of Wheat) and a lunch
of rice and saambhar stew with a spiced vegetable side dish of eggplant, okra or
green beans. For dinner, they might have chapati bread and dal made with
lentils, tomatoes and onions.

Ancient Indian cooking consisted mainly of rice, dairy products, tropical
vegetables and spices indigenous to India, including pepper, mustard, turmeric,
coriander and cumin. In the 14th and 15th centuries, Spanish traders and
colonists brought chiles, onions, garlic, tomatoes, potatoes and many other
ingredients, which have all been adopted in Indian cuisine.

Middle Eastern invaders introduced leavened breads, nuts and creams, which is
most apparent in Northern Indian cuisine. ("They didn't invade any farther
south," Rao says. "Why would they? It was too hot.")

This is also why the ancient Indian culture is more present in Southern India,
Rao says. In the North, an evening snack is still popular, and in the South,
breakfast is the most traditional meal. Stuffed pastries called samosas, naan
bread - and its less-fancy counterpart, chapati - and garam masala spice mix are
favored in the North, and crepelike stuffed dosas and stews made with saambhar
powder are traditional in the South.

The northern region of Punjab is home to the Indian food most familiar to
Americans, she says, such as saag paneer and tandoori chicken, but this only
represents a small sample of the variety of cuisines found in India.

Rao points out the connection between Latin American and Indian cuisines in her
classes. She talks about how she uses cilantro, jalapeños, rice and tortillas
not to make salsas and enchiladas but to make chutneys and samosas. "Chutney is
a pesto-salsa hybrid that's about 3,000 years old," she says. "It's the original
deal."

Rao mixes her own dried spices instead of using a premade curry powder. (See
above box, "What is curry?") Some premixed spices are OK to use, such as garam
masala, which means "toasted spice mix."

In making samosas, dosas and other Indian breads, Rao uses durum wheat, sooji,
rice flour or chickpea flour. All-purpose flour is reserved for desserts.

"Cardamom is widely used in Indian desserts, almost like how the Western world
uses vanilla," she says.

"Olive oil is something exotic that you rub on babies when they are young," she
says, and its flavor overwhelms many Indian dishes. She uses canola oil in her
countertop deep fryer. "Anything deep-fried is fancy," she says. "It's not like
here where fries are with everything."

For many dishes she uses ghee, clarified butter that contains no solid milk
particles or water. Ghee, popular in tropical climates, stays good for up to six
months without refrigeration and is easy to make. Rao says all you have to do is
melt and then boil unsalted butter in a saucepan (do not stir) until the
sediment sinks to the bottom and the butter turns a golden amber color and gives
off a pleasant smell. Let it cool for 25 minutes, then drain through a
cheesecloth or strainer. (Rao saves the leftover milk solids to spread on
toast.)

On a recent afternoon, while Rao helps her daughter Keertana, 7, with her piano
homework, they munch on a spicy mixture of rice crisps, shoestring potatoes,
chickpea noodles and peanuts, an Americanized version of one of Rao's favorite
Indian street foods.

Although Keertana prefers dosas with peanut butter instead of chutney and soy
nuggets before piano practice, Rao does her best to make sure her daughter is
constantly exposed to the culinary pleasures of India. She shares that same
knowledge in her cooking classes and wants to eventually write a cookbook or
host a television cooking show.

"This calling is dragging me," she says. "We'll see where it will take me."

abroyles@statesman.com; 912-2504

Tips for Indian cooking
* Use a pressure cooker, which saves time cooking beans, and a rice cooker.
* Invest in a good blender. Chaya Rao has more than a dozen blenders and
grinders; each homemade flour, spice or chutney has its own grinding device.
For most cooks, a good food processor and strong blender should do the trick.
* If you are using whole seeds such as fennel, cardamom, cloves, fenugreek or
coriander, grind them with a spice mill or coffee grinder reserved for spices.

Samosas
 For dough (alternatively, you can use six 8-inch tortillas):
11/2 cups all-purpose flour or unbleached flour
1/2 cup rice flour
3 Tbsp. canola oil
1/2 tsp. salt
 Cold water
 For binding:
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
 Few spoons of cold water
 For filling:
2 Tbsp. oil
1/2 tsp. turmeric
1 cup frozen peas, thawed
1 tsp. garam masala
1/2 tsp. chili powder
1 tsp. lemon juice
1 tsp. salt
3 medium Yukon gold potatoes, boiled, peeled and coarsely mashed
 Oil for frying
 To make the filling: Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a sauté pan, add turmeric
and the green peas and sauté over medium heat for 3 minutes. Add the garam
masala, chili powder, lemon juice and salt. Take the pan off the heat. Mix in
the potatoes thoroughly and set aside.
 To make the shell: Make a firm dough by mixing the dough ingredients. Divide
into six balls and roll each into 8-inch rounds that resemble tortillas. Cook
them lightly over a very low flame on both sides just enough to make the sticky
 surface disappear. Cut each circle down the middle into 2 semicircles. (If
using tortillas, cut them into semicircles at this stage). You will have 12
sheets.
 To make the binding: Make a paste resembling glue with flour and water.
 Assembly: Take a sheet and place it on a board so that the curved edge of the
semicircle is on the top and the straight edge is on the bottom. Lift the
bottom left corner and fold the sheet half way. Put some flour paste to bind
the sheet in a line where the end of the fold meets the base. Pull the right
bottom corner upward to make a cone shape. Bind this end again with some flour
paste. The sheet now will look like a cone with an opening. Fill this opening
to 3/4 the capacity with the potato-pea filling. Seal the cone edges with more
flour paste. The end product will be like a cone-shaped pocket pie. Repeat the
same with the remaining 11 sheets.
 Heat oil in a deep fryer or frying pan to about 400 degrees. Test by dropping
a pinch of the sheet dough in the oil. The oil is ready to fry if the dough
floats up right away. Drop the samosas into the oil and fry them until golden
brown. Drain on absorbent paper. Serve with mint and date chutneys. Makes 12.
 Cilantro and mint rice
3 cups basmati rice
51/2 cups water
6 Tbsp. canola oil, divided
1 cup grated fresh coconut
1/2 large onion, chopped
6-10 serrano chiles, chopped
1 bunch cilantro, roots trimmed and leaves and stems coarsely chopped
1 cup fresh mint leaves, packed
1-inch piece of ginger, grated
3 cloves garlic, peeled
1 Tbsp. coriander powder
1 tsp. cumin powder
1 Tbsp. cumin seeds
1/2 large onion, sliced
1 Tbsp. turmeric
1 cup frozen green peas, thawed
11/2 to 2 Tbsp. salt
2 tsp. sugar
2 Tbsp. lime juice
 Wash and cook the rice with water and 1 tablespoon oil. Once cooked, fluff and
 air the rice.
 Make a smooth paste of coconut, chopped onion, serranos, cilantro leaves, mint
 leaves, ginger, garlic, coriander and cumin powders by adding as little water
as possible. In a huge sauté pan or wok, heat the remaining oil, toast the
cumin seeds, add the sliced onions and turmeric. Sauté for 2 minutes on
medium-high flame. Add the peas and the spice paste and sauté for three more
minutes on medium flame. Add salt and sugar and lime juice, turn off the heat
and mix well. If the pan is large enough, add the rice to the pan and mix well.
 Otherwise, pour the rice and the sautéed mixture onto a large tray and mix
well.  Serves 6.
 Dal
3 cups split red lentils (cooked well)
7 cups water, divided
3 ripe tomatoes (split and seeded)
2 tsp. salt
1 Tbsp. butter or ghee
1 tsp. cumin seeds
1 medium onion, chopped
1 tsp. grated fresh ginger
3...4 large cloves of garlic, finely chopped
1 serrano chile, chopped (optional)
1 tsp. chili powder
1 tsp. coriander powder
1 tsp. cumin powder
1 tsp. turmeric
 Juice of 1 large lemon
1/2 cup chopped cilantro
 Place the lentils and six cups of water a huge heavy-bottom stock pot. Boil
for 30 minutes on medium flame. Add the tomatoes and salt and boil for 10 more
minutes. In a large pan make the seasoning by heating the butter or ghee on
medium flame. Add the cumin seeds; when the seeds crackle, add onions and
serrano and sauté for 2 minutes over medium-high flame. Add ginger and garlic
and sauté for few more seconds. Add tomatoes and cook for couple more minutes.
Add the chili, coriander, turmeric and cumin powders and sauté for few more
seconds until a gentle aroma starts to fill the kitchen. Pour cooked lentils
and a cup of water into the pan; mix well. Simmer at low flame for five
minutes. Add the lemon juice and garnish with chopped cilantro. Serve hot with
cooked rice or Indian breads. Serves 6
 Carrot Halwa
 This dish combines carrots and cardamom in a savory dessert.
4 cups finely grated carrots
4 cups skim or 1 percent milk
11/2 cups sugar
8 oz. of low-fat ricotta cheese
1 tsp. finely ground cardamom
1 Tbsp. ghee (or melted butter)
1/2 cup chopped unsalted pistachios
 Lightly butter a heavy-bottom pan. Place the carrots in the pan and pour in
all the milk. Place it on medium heat for 15 minutes. Turn the heat to low and
let it cook for another 30 minutes, or until all the liquid is evaporated. Add
the sugar, ricotta cheese and cardamom and mix well. Keep on low heat for 3
more minutes. In another small pan, heat the ghee and fry the pistachios over
medium heat for 40 seconds. Pour over the halwa. Can be served hot or cold.
Serves 12.
 Makhani Sauce Recipe
 This sauce can be served over grilled or stir-fried vegetables or meat.
1 large onion, cut into large chunks
1 Tbsp. finely chopped ginger
2 Tbsp. finely chopped garlic
1 Tbsp. poppy seeds (optional)
1 cup cashews (both raw and roasted work well)
1 Tbsp. butter
2 Tbsp. finely chopped onions
1 tsp. turmeric
2 cups water, divided
1 can tomato sauce
1 Tbsp. chili powder
1 Tbsp. garam masala
1 Tbsp. salt
1 Tbsp. sugar
1 cup low-fat sour cream
1/2 tsp. ground cardamom
 Place onion chunks, ginger, garlic, poppy seeds and cashews in a blender; and
blend into a smooth paste/purée by slowly adding water.
 In a heavy-bottom pan, melt butter; add finely chopped onions and sauté for a
minute on medium-high flame. Add turmeric powder and wait for 10 seconds. Add
the onion-cashew paste and water and sauté for 1 minute, adding spoonfuls of
water to prevent the sauce from drying. Add the tomato sauce, chili powder and
garam masala, salt and sugar and mix well. Add 11/2 cups of water; cover and
simmer on medium flame for 10 minutes.
 Remove from the stove, add the sour cream and cardamom and mix well with a
whisk. Serves 6.
- All recipes from Chaya Rao
 Where to buy ingredients
 Many Indian ingredients are found at Fiesta Mart, MT Supermarket, MGM Indian
Foods or other grocery stores with a large selection of ethnic ingredients.
 In addition, you can order just about any spice or ingredient on the Internet.
 Here are some resources.
* www.natco-online.com
* www.kalustyans.com
* www.patelbrothersusa.com
What is curry?
 Curry means 'vegetable' in Tamil, one of the main Indian languages, which is a
 far cry from what it has come to mean in the U.S. Many dishes, including those
 with meat, are called curry, as is a spice mixture found in many stores. Dried
 curry leaves are used to flavor dishes, similar to a bay leaf.
'In South Asia, the definition of curry changes every 100 miles,' says Chaya
Rao. Instead of using a premixed curry, which Rao points out is a British
invention that usually has a flat taste and includes celery seeds, mace, fennel
 and/or nutmeg, try different combinations of spices such as turmeric, cumin,
coriander and chili powder. However, she recommends using the premixed
varieties of complex spice blends such as garam masala, saambhar and rasam
powders.
 Chaya Rao's cooking classes
 Chaya Rao has several vegetarian Indian cooking classes coming up. Here are
the classes and dates. For more information, go to her Web site,
www.vegicurean.com.
 Thursday - Vegetarian Thanksgiving, Whole Foods Market Culinary Center
 Dec. 16 - Indian Vegetarian Holiday Fare, Whole Foods
Market Culinary Center
 Dec. 20 - Chai Tea Class, Whole Foods Market Culinary Center
 Jan. 8 - Southern Indian Cuisine, Central Market, North Lamar Boulevard
location
 Feb. 25 - Indian Cooking Basics, Faraday's Kitchen Store
Stock your kitchen for Indian food
* Durum wheat flour
* Basmati rice
* Cardamom, whole
* Chili powder (Chaya Rao says a substitute for Indian chili powder, which
isn't the same as that used in American chili, is one part cayenne and two
parts paprika)
* Coriander, ground
* Cumin, ground and whole
* Garam masal a
* Turmeric
* Canned tomatoes
* Long grain rice
* Garbanzo beans
* Split yellow lentils
* Dal (legumes such as toor, urad, channa)
* Rasam powder
* Saambhar powder
* Mustard seeds
* Tamarind (purée or pulp)
* Fresh ginger
* Cilantro
* Green chiles
- From Chaya Rao's Web site, www.vegicurean.com



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 15, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Perry says his legacy is more than longevity

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1725 words


Rick Perry, poised this week to become the longest-serving governor in Texas
history, wants more - including re-election in two years that would position him
to serve 14 years in the job.

He believes he's earned it by stoking the economy, diminishing highway
congestion and mirroring what he believes to be Texans' conservative values.

"I have never been a placeholder," Perry said during a visit in his Capitol
office . "I'm not through yet."

Observers don't uniformly hail Perry's performance since he stepped up from
lieutenant governor when George W. Bush left for Washington in late 2000.

As with governors before Perry, sideline critics - mindful that he appoints
boards and some agency administrators - are free to question whether he's been
entirely watchful.

Recently, a federal report criticized the care of residents in institutions
housing adults with mental retardation. Last year, the handling of youths in
Texas Youth Commission facilities touched off a shakeup. And earlier, Perry was
in charge when lawmakers confronted a shortfall in resources for protecting
children from abuse and neglect.

Several challengers saw an opportunity when Perry sought his second full term in
2006; they held him to 39 percent of the vote. And last week, U.S. Sen. Kay
Bailey Hutchison of Texas bet against her fellow Republican by transferring $1
million from her federal campaign kitty to a state account she set up to explore
running for governor in 2010.

But Perry pals say the governor, whose campaign has printed red, white and blue
"Perry Governor 2010" bumper stickers, shows no reluctance to talk up his
record.

Lobbyist Cliff Johnson , a friend who served with Perry in the Texas House and
worked for him in the governor's office, said: "I have no indication other than
full speed ahead and damn the torpedoes, let's go. That's when Perry is
absolutely at his best, when somebody tells him he can't do something or he's
going to fail."

Lobbyist Mike Toomey, who likewise served with Perry in the House before working
for him in the governor's office, said: "You can't touch him; things are great
right now."

On Friday, Perry, 58 , stands to break the longevity record of 2,919 days, or
eight years, set by Gov. Bill Clements . In 1978, Clements was the first
Republican elected governor since Reconstruction. He lost re-election but won a
second four-year term in 1986.

Perry, who has already outlasted long-serving governors Dolph Briscoe from the
1970s, John Connally from the 1960s and Allan Shivers before him, can thank
several factors for his staying power.

First, he got a historical lift when Texas voters gave governors four-year terms
starting in 1975 ; previously governors were limited to two-year terms. Also,
the state constitution doesn't impose term limits on state elected officials.

To Perry's benefit, Bush launched him as governor by forgoing two years of his
second term when he became president. Perry then extended his perfect record at
the polls by winning re-election twice.

Perry's legacy won't be cemented until he leaves office. But few would dispute
he's made his marks, from ushering in toll road legislation to pay for road
building to presiding over an unusual middle-of-the-decade congressional
redistricting to spearheading revisions in the business tax to pay for school
property tax cuts.

Perry said he considers the longevity record an interesting footnote, but it's
not the big picture of his governorship.

"The story is about a Texas of unlimited opportunity. It's about a Texas that
leads the nation in job creation. It's about a place where people want to move,
and they move here by over 1,000 a day. The story is about how Texas has been
transformed in the last five years," with Texas among a handful of states
approaching 2009 with a surplus.

Referring to companies considering investments in Texas, Perry said: "I'll bet
you there's not a corporate CEO in America that will ask the question, 'Well,
how long has your governor been there?' That's not what they're interested in.
They're interested in what have you done and what are you going to do? Are you
going to keep Texas" on the path it's on?

Economist Bud Weinstein of the University of North Texas credited Perry with
launching economic development and emerging technology funds to encourage
business. He said that generally, though, state policies have little to do with
the state's economy, which has boomed thanks to external forces including
defense spending and energy and farm commodity prices.

"State public policies have had little or nothing to do with the state's
comparatively strong economy," Weinstein said.

Perry reacted with disbelief, saying: "Look, I understand - the governor of the
state of Texas, or the governor of Oklahoma, or for that matter the governor of
Alaska, probably don't have anything to do with the price of petroleum. But I'll
promise you, the business climate in the state of Texas is because (House
Speaker) Tom Craddick and (Lt. Gov.) David Dewhurst and Rick Perry working
together for the last six years have made a difference in this state. I will
argue that until the cows come home, animal science major or not," he said,
referring to his studies at Texas A&M University.

Weinstein later said: "Governors really sell the state. " He's been very good at
that. He's helped propagate this image of Texas having a great business climate.
"

Perry will lay out an agenda for the 2009 Legislature early next year. But he
acknowledges unfinished business.

Like several governors before him, he has not been able to move the state to
create top-tier public universities in addition to the University of Texas and
Texas A&M.

"We have a built-in obstacle to dealing with restructuring of higher education,"
Perry said. "It's called the Legislature." Nearly every legislator has a public
college in his or her district, he said, making it hard for a majority of
members to favor advancing select institutions to an elite level.

"Do we need more flagship universities?" he said. "Absolutely. Dallas needs one;
it is obvious that Dallas needs a four-year flagship, tier-one institution. And
I will work to try to find a way to do that. Houston " needs a tier-one flagship
institution."

Despite economic strengths, Texas continues to lag behind other states by
certain indicators. It has more uninsured children than any other state. It has
high poverty and school dropout rates.

Perry, calling Texas big and diverse, said: "Are we perfect? Probably not. Are
we working towards perfection? That's our goal, but we're not going to get
there. There's always going to be some that fall through the cracks. Our job is
to put in place safety nets that work. And I think we've done that."

He cited billions of additional dollars spent on health care and human services
on his watch to expand the program insuring children of the working poor and to
hire more caseworkers for the agency that investigates child abuse and neglect.

Suggesting that opponents have a different agenda, "rather than moving Texas
forward," Perry singled out the Center for Public Policy Priorities, an
Austin-based group that promotes services for low-income Texans. "They have a
very left-wing, Marxist agenda, and their idea (is) we could never spend enough
money to make them happy."

Scott McCown , the center's executive director, noted that Texas, unlike most
states, lacks a personal income tax, which advocates believe could ensure more
consistent government funding at a lower cost to many taxpayers.

"Our problems in Texas are not caused by right-of-center policies, but by
far-right-of-center policies," McCown said. "Children, the disabled, the elderly
aren't falling through cracks ; Texas has made a decision to maintain a
regressive tax system that favors the wealthy rather than provide quality
education and fund services for the neediest. After decades of regressive taxes
and inadequately funded services, a smart person should ask: Under these
policies, when exactly does Texas get rich enough to educate our kids in
first-class schools and take care of our vulnerable citizens? The answer is
never."

Perry indicated he expects such criticism.

But, he said, "Texans are right-of-center conservative people. This is a
conservative state. They want conservative governance. I don't get confused
about that."

wgselby@statesman.com, 445-3644

Perry's record at a glance
* Vetoed more than 80 measures in June 2001, including 78 on one Sunday. His
so-called Father's Day Massacre left legislators and some interest groups
yelping. Eric Bearse , Perry's former communications director , said the vetoes
 signaled that Perry wanted to be consulted in setting policy, sending the
message that 'you had to work the center office as well as two wings of the
Capitol to get things done.'
* Ushered legislation into place permitting regional authorities to use state
finances to fast-track toll road highway projects. Perry's Trans-Texas Corridor
 vision of toll roads crisscrossing the state might not materialize; skeptics
achieved a limited moratorium in 2007. Yet some toll projects have eased
congestion for motorists willing to pay.
* Closed a nearly $10 billion revenue shortfall without raising taxes. State
spending decreased in 2004-05 for the first time since World War II.
* Championed laws discouraging litigation against businesses and cutting the
cost of medical malpractice insurance; voters approved the changes in 2003 .
* Called repeated legislative sessions so the Republican-majority Legislature
could redraw congressional districts. The unusual middle-of-the-decade
redistricting  resulted in voters electing more Republicans than Democrats to
the state's U.S. House delegation starting in 2004 .
* Proposed a school tax plan resoundingly rejected by the Texas House before
supporting a revision of the state's business tax drafted by former state
Comptroller John Sharp. A version of the Sharp plan passed into law, helping
pay for a cut in local school property taxes.
* Mandated vaccinations for teenage girls against a virus that causes cervical
cancer, a surprise move described by Bearse as reflecting Perry's personal
interest in cancer prevention. Perry's 2007 order shocked legislators, who
voted to cancel the mandate before it kicked in.
* Proposed that the state sell the Texas lottery to a vendor. The idea wasn't
taken seriously in the 2007 session.



LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LEARNING CALENDAR

BYLINE: Alex Dotte AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 376 words


Business structure workshop - 9 a.m. to noon today . The City of Austin Small
Business Development Program hosts. International Center of Austin, 201 E.
Second St. $30, includes light breakfast and materials. 974-7800,
www.ci.austin.tx.us/sbdp.

Lectures - Today . Dr. Cain Hope Felder lectures at Huston-Tillotson University
at the commencement of Black History Month. 2 p.m.: 'Africa, African Americans
and the Bible'; Agard-Lovinggood Lecture Hall. 7 p.m.: 'New Frontiers in
Biblical Studies.' King-Seabrook Chapel, 900 Chicon St. Free. 505-3073,
www.htu.edu.

'Winter Backyard Birds' - 7 p.m. today . John Kelly presents class on seasonal
birds visiting Austin abodes. REI Gateway, 9901 Capital of Texas Highway N.
(Loop 360). Free. 482-3357.

Public affairs forum - 11:30 a.m. Sunday . Gary Keith speaks on 'Eckhardt: There
Once Was a Congressman from Texas.' First Unitarian Universalist Church, 4700
Grover Ave. Free. 452-6168, www.austinuu.org.

Sierra Club meeting - 7 p.m. Tuesday . Jay Banner of the University of Texas'
Environmental Science Institute speaks on climate change and karst aquifers.
LCRA Hancock Building, 3700 Lake Austin Blvd. Free. 444-1326,
www.texas.sierraclub

.org/austin.

Engage Speaker Series - 7:30 to 9 a.m. Tuesday . Leadership Austin presents
'Planting Seeds, Growing Strong Entrepreneurs: Entrepreneurial support
networks,' featuring guest speakers Laura Kilcrease and Andy Martinez. Chez Zee,
5406 Balcones Drive. $20-$25. www.leadershipaustin.org.

Italian language classes - 6 p.m. Tuesdays through March 4. Grammar and speaking
lessons. Call 345-8941 for exact location. $25. www.ATasteOfItalyInAustin.com.

Metropolitan Breakfast Club meeting - 7 to 8:30 a.m. Wednesday . Trevor Romain
speaks on 'Social & Emotional Fitness for Kids.' UT Club, sixth floor;
Royal-Memorial Stadium, 2108 E. Robert Dedman Drive. $15. 479-9460,
www.mbcaustin.org.

'BoostCamp' - 6:30 to 9 p.m. Wednesday . Catalyst 8 hosts inaugural panel
discussion 'Launching Your Arts or Film Career to the Next Level;' Andrew Long,
Lance Keltner, John Bush, Jason Neulander, Amparo Garcia-Crow and Tom Schatz
speak. Pre-registration required. Mother Egan's Irish Pub, 715 W. Sixth St. $10.
482-0800, thelong center.frontgatesolutions.com.

- Compiled by Alex Dotte

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 18, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Superpowerful 'Ranger' has scientists lining up

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 855 words


Waves of color ripple across the screen of Omar Ghattas' laptop. The University
of Texas geoscientist is replaying a computer visualization showing waves of
seismic energy rippling through the Los Angeles Basin after a simulated
earthquake along the San Andreas Fault more than 100 miles away.

It took four days to create that visualization a few years ago on a
supercomputer in San Diego.

Now, Ghattas has a more powerful machine to work with: a new supercomputer
nicknamed Ranger at the Texas Advanced Computing Center at UT's J.J. Pickle
Research Campus.

Ghattas said Ranger is five times as powerful as anything scientists have worked
with in the United States in the past. In many fields, better computing
translates to better science.

In Ghattas' case, the machine will deliver earthquake simulations with twice the
level of resolution, or detail, than could be done previously.

More detail means a better scientific understanding and more practical knowledge
about how temblors can affect buildings in quake-prone areas.

At peak performance, Ranger will deliver about 504 trillion computer operations
each second, using 15,744 of Advanced Micro Devices Inc.'s latest Barcelona
chips. That's equal to the combined power of 50,000 budget desktops.

"This is the most exciting time in history to be a computational scientist
because of these instruments that are coming into the fold," Ghattas said.

Ranger, which is expected to cost $59 million over five years, is the first in a
series of powerful academic supercomputers backed by the National Science
Foundation .

The machine, which will be used by scientists across the country, will be
dedicated Friday in a ceremony including officials from the science foundation,
Sun Microsystems Inc. and AMD, as well as from UT.

Over the past decade, the nation's fastest and most powerful computers have been
purchased for the military and nuclear weapons scientists.

But after almost a decade of lobbying by scientific groups, the science
foundation is giving natural scientists access to cutting-edge computer
performance.

Ranger's power will help Ghattas with his geoscience research and help hundreds
of other scientists across the country in fields such as biochemistry, advanced
physics, astrophysics, climate change and the design of advanced atomic particle
accelerators.

The machine itself cost about $30 million; the remaining $29 million will pay
for the immense amount of work required to maintain the system and develop tools
and software so scientists can use it effectively.

UT teamed with Sun to win the federal grant that paid for Ranger.

Sun supplied the hardware architecture for the machine, which is a cluster of
many computers spread over more than 80 racks of computing space. Two Sun
high-speed switches tie the whole thing together into a single computer that
takes up about 4,500 square feet of floor space.

"The reason we won the deal is we offered more for the dollars than anybody
else," said Andy Bechtolsheim , chief architect and senior vice president of
Sun's systems group. "People are getting a really good deal in terms of the
compute power for the investment."

Ghattas is both a world-class scientist and an expert on working with
supercomputers. He came to UT two years ago from Carnegie Mellon University ,
excited about the interdisciplinary research talent that the school was
assembling.

Many of those researchers work in UT's Applied Computational Engineering and
Sciences Building . Most of the offices in the building have very high-speed
connections to the Texas Advanced Computing Center supercomputers and a
high-speed network that connects supercomputing centers across the country.

UT's intent is to encourage more collaboration among its researchers in the
natural sciences and engineering.

"Collaboration is a contact sport," Ghattas said. "You have to roll up your
sleeves and get in front of the white board and start writing equations with
your colleagues."

The continuing development of the Texas Advanced Computing Center provides an
additional level of resour- ces to the talent on campus, he said.

"I think what we've created here is a modern-day Athens," Ghattas said.

Computing center Director Jay Boisseau said Ranger will improve scientists'
ability to see the world in clearer detail and make discoveries based on that
enhanced vision.

Researchers involved with about 100 projects are working on the machine right
now, and Boisseau expects that number to double later in the year.

In four years, Boisseau predicts that Ranger's useful life may be almost over.

By then, he hopes the computing center will have won a still larger computer
capable of handling even more demanding science research.

"We are pretty confident here," Boisseau said, noting that the center has gone
from being an also-ran to one of the world's leading supercomputer centers in
the past six years.

After two months of testing, the new computer went into full operating mode two
weeks ago.

Ghattas and other researchers are excited.

"The scientific community has spoken," he said. "We have gotten this machine,
and now we've got to deliver."

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

UT to design science classes at Saudi school

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 748 words


The University of Texas will receive $27 million during the next five years to
help a fledgling university in Saudi Arabia establish a program in computational
earth sciences and engineering.

The research and educational partnership with the King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology , abbreviated as KAUST, calls for UT to help select
faculty members, organize the curriculum and collaborate in research,
conferences and other matters.

The arrangement, made public on Wednesday , is similar to partnerships the Saudi
institution has with Stanford University and the University of California at
Berkeley. Those two partnerships, focused on computer science and applied math
at Stanford and mechanical engineering at Berkeley, were announced Tuesday .

"KAUST's partnership with the University of Texas at Austin is based on the
institution's reputation for world-class research and academic development,"
said Choon Fong Shih , president-designate of the Saudi university.

UT has been emphasizing international collaboration lately. The university
reached an agreement last month with the University of Havana to host each
other's faculty members and graduate students, and President William Powers Jr.
has led two delegations to Mexico in the past year or so to encourage academic
and economic cooperation.

The Saudi science and technology university was established with a
multibillion-dollar endowment from King Abdullah and is under construction on
the bank of the Red Sea. It is scheduled to open in September 2009 .

The kingdom hopes to position the school quickly as one of the leading research
institutions in the world. Like Rockefeller University in New York, it will be a
graduate-level university, with no undergraduate students. It is intended to
have a more Western flavor than other Saudi universities, with an independent
governing board and merit-based admission open to men and women from all
cultures .

The Chronicle of Higher Education has reported that critics question whether top
academics will be attracted to the Saudi institution because of the kingdom's
cultural and religious restrictions and because, despite vast oil wealth, it
lags far behind other countries on investments in scientific research.

Omar Ghattas , a professor of geological sciences who will serve as UT's
director of the partnership, said officials with the Saudi university pledged
that there would be no discrimination on the basis of gender, religion or race
in admissions, hiring and promotions. The university's draft articles of
governance include such nondiscrimination language, he said, adding that he and
other UT officials asked whether this had the support of the king and were
assured by Saudi university officials that it did.

King Abdullah, in a message on the Saudi university's Web site, says that
"nurturing and protecting freedom of research, thought and discourse related to
scholarly work will be among the primary objectives" of the institution.

"This is really bold and visionary," said Ghattas, who also directs UT's Center
for Computational Geosciences. "We take these things for granted. For them, it's
a major step."

Under the agreement between UT and the Saudi university, UT is required to help
recruit 10 faculty members. If too few are lined up, the Saudi school can invite
UT professors, lecturers and post-doctoral researchers to serve as visiting
instructors on a semester-by-semester basis. In addition, two-way audio-video
systems would be set up so that students at the Saudi school could take UT
classes.

The compensation from the Saudi school is to be used to support UT faculty
research, graduate students and post-doctoral researchers. Researchers in
various academic disciplines at UT will collaborate with counterparts at the
Saudi school on problems in earth sciences.

"Many of the grand challenges facing our society involve the earth sciences,
including climate change, water resources, environmental sustainability, clean
energy and natural hazard mitigation," Ghattas said. "Advanced computer modeling
is required to best address these problems."

He described the organizational structure of the Saudi university as unusual,
with no departments such as civil engineering and geology, and instead a
collection of research institutes with an interdisciplinary flavor that should
make them well-suited to tackling broad problems.

"It's a clean-sheet-of-paper design of a university," Ghattas said. "It's really
radical."

rhaurwitz@statesman.com; 445-3604

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 26, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Factors pump up the cost of diesel

BYLINE: PETER MONGILLO AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 657 words


Diesel fuel seems to be a cruder, less-refined fuel than gasoline and should be
much cheaper to produce. Why, then, does diesel fuel at the station cost around
50 cents a gallon more than the station's most premium, high-test gasoline?

-Jim S.

Several factors make diesel fuel more expensive. During the winter, there is
traditionally more demand for distillate fuels such as heating oil and diesel
fuel, and the effects of that can lag into the spring. Demand for distillate
fuel in other countries, such as China, has also grown in recent years. Also, a
new, "greener" type of diesel, ultra-low-sulfur diesel, is now being processed
at higher prices than the old diesel. That is the word from Mariano Gurfinkel,
project manager at the Center for Energy Economics at the University of Texas in
San Antonio.

According to the Department of Energy, the federal excise tax on on-highway
diesel fuel is also 6 cents per gallon higher than the tax on gasoline.

The average price of diesel in the United States for the week of May 19 was
almost $4.50 per gallon, as opposed to $3.79 for gasoline, according to the
Department of Energy. Gurfinkle says that we can expect diesel prices to soften
in the coming months as demand for gasoline increases over the summer.

What is the proper course of action if you hit a pet animal on a neighborhood
street? We couldn't decide whether it's the driver's job to look for a tag on
the animal's neck to inform the owner, which public office to call to remove the
animal from the road, and whether you need to stick around until the situation
is resolved. Can you be held liable for costs in any way? Is the procedure any
different if you hit something like a squirrel or grackle?

-J.M.

If you hit an animal, you aren't required by law to stick around, says Dorinda
Pulliam, director of the Town Lake Animal Shelter, but it's the humane thing to
do. If the animal is located on a busy road where it can potentially create a
dangerous situation, call 911. Otherwise, call 311. You also have the option of
taking the animal to any of Austin's emergency veterinary clinics, such as AM/PM
Animal Hospital (2239 S. Lamar Blvd. 448-2676), where all costs will be covered
by the shelter. If the animal is not badly injured, you can also take it to the
shelter during business hours (don't leave an injured animal in the overnight
drop area, as there isn't anyone there to care for it). The city will contact
the owner if you do not feel comfortable doing so, but Pulliam adds that it
could be a better way to get the animal help, as injured animals can turn
aggressive toward strangers.

I've always heard that you shouldn't take a shower during a lightning storm,
because you might get electrocuted. Is it true that lightning can travel through
a water pipe and zap you while you are in the shower?

-B.W.

It's shocking but true. Metal pipes and water provide an easy conduit for
electrical discharge from lightning to enter your home, says meteorologist Troy
Kimmel, senior lecturer at the Weather and Climate Resource Center at the
University of Texas. One such occurrence took place in May 2001 when a deputy
for the Williamson County Sheriff's Department was struck during a thunderstorm
while sitting on the toilet in his home near Taylor. He was not seriously
injured.

When a lightning storm hits, Kimmel recommends steering clear of plumbing as
well as hard-wired phones and electrical appliances.

Is there anyplace I can take a beginning computer class? I'm 64 and don't want
to take it with young kids.

-P.W.

SeniorNet Austin, a program of Austin Groups for the Elderly, 3710 Cedar St.,
offers a computer basics class as well as courses on Microsoft Word, Quicken and
a variety of other topics. The fee for the basic course is $50. Call 451-4611 or
visit www.seniornetaustin.org for more information.

Contact Peter Mongillo at P.O. Box 670, Austin 78767; (512) 445-3697; e-mail
pmongillo@statesman.com or fax (512) 445-3968.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 410 words


'None of our fellow Americans will have their day in court. What they will have
is a government that has sanctioned lawlessness.'

Sen. Chris Dodd

Connecticut Democrat, speaking against a surveillance bill that would shield
telecommunications companies from lawsuits for cooperating with the Bush
administration's warrantless wiretapping program.

'Mr. Mugabe could learn some things from Mr. Fuelberg.'

U.S. rep. henry waxman

California Democrat, making an unflattering comparison between Bennie Fuelberg,
left, former general manager of the Pedernales Electric Cooperative, and
Zimbabwean dictator Robert Mugabe, right, during a congressional hearing on
electric co-ops.

'Jesus was a baby like all others. His divinity does not exclude his humanity.'

Lucetta Scaraffia

Historian, calling for the image of Mary as a mother to be rehabilitated. Two
recent articles in L'Osservatore Romano, the official newspaper of the Vatican,
have asked worshippers to be less prudish about paintings and other works of art
depicting Mary

breast-feeding the baby Jesus.

'We're toast.'

JAMES HANSEN

Director of the Goddard Institute of Space Sciences, on the path being taken in
response to global warming. Hansen was one of the first scientists to sound the
alarm about climate change in a June 1988 congressional hearing.

'(Bush) has always done well for the affluent of America, and anyone that does
well for the affluent should be named for the effluent.'

Bright Winn

A plumber in San Francisco, where a petition drive is under way to name the
city's wastewater treatment plant the George W. Bush Sewage Plant.

'Discover a culture several centuries in the making in exotic China.'

American Airlines

From a recent brochure to AAdvantage members, promoting travel to China, a
continuous civilization for thousands, rather than hundreds, of years.

'Well, if crime fighters fight crime and firefighters fight fire, what do
freedom fighters fight? They never mention that part to us, do they?'

George Carlin

Comedian, known for his play on the meaning of words, and for whom nothing was
off-limits. Carlin died last Sunday of heart failure. He was 71.

Most popular NEWS Stories on statesman.com

The five most viewed stories, Sunday through Thursday:

1. Austin developer found dead

2. Power restored after storm

3. South Austin gas station's closure dismays neighbors

4. 93 Seton employees get word of layoffs

5. City manager didn't know of mansion fire for more than 24 hours

Compiled by American-Statesman staff

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 865 words


Oil prices

By all means, let's politicize this issue. Let the people decide. Seldom has
there been an issue that more clearly defines the two predominant political
philosophies in America.

Conservatism supports removing the restrictions that the government has used to
paralyze the American oil industry from producing and refining its own oil and
increasing nuclear power.

Liberalism insists on prohibiting oil exploration and drilling, oil refining and
the increase of nuclear power. Liberalism actually promotes further penalizing
the very industry that can accomplish this by taxing them into eliminating
themselves.

I enthusiastically support letting the best minds on both sides of the issue
hash this out in the public arena, and then ask the people to decide in November
which direction they wish to go by electing an overwhelming majority of
legislators that support their side.

STEVE RUTLEDGE

newsteve60@gmail.com

Austin

Energy independence

Returning to the Carter years will devastate our economy and promote starvation.
We need leaders who place our best interests above terrorists and dictators who
would hold us hostage for energy supplies.

Drill off the coast and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, add refinery
capacity, expand electric generation from nuclear power and promote fuel cells
for cars.

Who will lead this country toward energy independence? Vote for those
candidates.

VERN WILLIAMS

Round Rock

Shameless

Sen. John McCain scores points by giving a speech to the oil fat cats in Houston
on the reality of climate change. Then he endorses more oil drilling in
environmentally sensitive areas and "forgets" that his own proposal for a
cap-and-trade program sets mandatory limits.

I should have known the Straight Talk Express ain't a hybrid.

DANIEL SCHRAMM

Austin

Pass the buck

Capital Metro's Dump the Pump program should be called Pass the Pump.

A 1970s-era study by the Federal Transit Administration revealed that, based on
auto fuel economy, only two transit systems in the entire country consumed less
fuel than that required for all their riders to drive their own cars. More
recent FTA statistics reveal that this is still true.

So when people stop paying for gas for their car, and start paying 50 cents to
ride a Cap Metro bus that costs $5 per trip to operate and several dollars per
ride more to purchase, you pass the full cost of your gas and then some to the
sales tax payers throughout the region who subsidize the other $5 to $10 you're
not paying.

Still, the only choice to reduce trips to the pump is to dump your SUV and go
for a car with better fuel efficiency.

MICHAEL PENIC

drum_to_de_max@yahoo.com

Cedar Park

Religious freedom

Re: June 19 commentary "Will gay rights trample our religious freedom?"

I realize this is somehow confusing to people, apparently to Marc Stern as well.
Perhaps I can clarify the reason for boundaries.

If religious views are allowed to prevail outside the doors of the religious
institution, as he says they must, then the practical effect is to impose those
religious views on secular or competing religions, thereby trampling the beliefs
of opposing views. His argument that the very acceptance of the right to beliefs
other than those subscribed to by him curtails his religious freedom has recent
historical precedent. Just Google Taliban and Osama Bin Laden.

WARD HILLYER

ward_hillyer@hotmail.com

Bastrop

Childhood deaths

Re: June 16 commentary "Fund research for childhood cancer."

Though I heartily endorse the cause U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, is
backing in urging support of the Caroline Pryce Walker Act to fund research
fighting childhood cancers, I feel compelled to clarify a misstatement.

McCaul referred to cancer as the "No. 1 killer of our children." That is false.

According to the National Center for Health Statistics, the leading cause of all
childhood deaths in Texas are perinatal causes, led by prematurity, at a rate of
1,173 per 100,000 children. The next most prevalent cause of death in children
are congenital anomalies, at a rate of 638 per 100,000. Childhood cancers
account for 223 per 100,000 childhood deaths.

In fact, motor vehicle collisions cause 659 deaths per 100,000 citizens from
birth to age 19.

Dr. KAREN WRIGHT

Austin

Get over it, folks

Sen. Hillary Clinton lost because she ran a bad campaign, not because of gender
bias in the media.

Her campaign assumed it would all be over on Super Tuesday. Wrong.

Bosnian snipers? Oops.

Strife and dissension within the staff? President Clinton wouldn't shut up.

Her persona evolved monthly, and by the time she settled on who and what she
was, it was too late.

Sen. Barack Obama knew who he was from the get-go, had a staff that outthought
the Clintons on the mood of the country, and ran off and left them in the dust
in the cyber world.

DICK COLLINS

Austin

Stumped by the outrage

Re: June 18 article "Razing of 150 trees was a mistake, company says."

The 150 trees "razed" included only 23 that were not supposed to be disturbed.
While we should be responsible stewards of our environment, the loss of 23 trees
hardly amounts to a "horrible environmental disaster." Some people are getting
all hysterical over nothing more than a gardening mistake.

TIM AUSTIN

Round Rock

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday
                           WILLIAMSON COUNTY Edition

'New American Talent' artists tackle the world, piece by piece

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin AMERICAN-STATESMAN ARTS CRITIC

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. J12

LENGTH: 676 words


It's summer, and that means we have the next iteration of "New American Talent,"
the annual juried exhibit featuring the work of emerging artists from across the
country. Arthouse has presented "New American Talent" for 23 years now, since
long before the talent competition became the super-popular form of pop culture
entertainment - not to mention reputation-maker - that it is.

"Project Artist," anyone?

No, "New American Talent" is much better than that. And this year's version is
sharper than ever. The works are selected by Nato Thompson, a curator at
Creative Time, the New York-based nonprofit that commissions innovative public
art projects. Kudos to him for sorting through more than 1,000 entries to select
43 artists whom he identifies as "curious" and able to present "lush mysteries
in a world that often seems altogether too transparent." (Sixteen of the artists
are from Texas, with seven from Austin.)

And perhaps the most refreshing aspect of these artists' curiosity is their
sense of timeliness and topicality. Call it the curse of graduate art school,
but emerging artists can end up so addled by their own self-involvement that
they can't produce anything that's not too, well, self-involved. But much of
what's on exhibit in "New American Talent" percolates with contemporary issues:
climate change, the war in Iraq and its far-reaching consequences, technology's
intrusion into everyday life.

Something like Margot Herster's "Kuwaiti Detainees in Guantánamo Bay" is
advocacy as much as it is art. Through her connection with attorneys
representing the detainees at the Cuba naval base, Herster has collected more
than 2,000 images the attorneys gathered from their clients' families. As a way
to establish their clients' trust, the attorneys traveled to the Middle East and
photographed detainees' family members and homes and carried personal messages
back to Guantánamo. Among other photos that Herster has arrayed on the wall at
Arthouse are images of a Muslim family joyfully playing with a new baby - a baby
whose father is detained at Guantánamo and has presumably never seen his child.
It's a considerably more thought-provoking view of the detainees than the one
presented by U.S. officials.

Goran Maric approaches the same topic from a different tack. His expressively
rendered quartet of etchings depicts horrifying scenes of prisoner torture. Less
immediately direct, but no less loaded with conviction, are Chad Erpelding's
elegant "Topography" black-and-white digital prints. With frenzied lines that
resemble a map gone haywire, Erpelding creates an artistic representation of the
powerful global networks that seem to govern our world: the World Trade
Organization, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Not everything in "New American Talent" is quite so explicit with its message. A
miniature moss-covered mountaintop crowned with a tiny solar panel, Alec Appl's
"Mt. Solar" charms with its dollhouse scale. Yet with an ordinary desk lamp
playing the role of the sun and feeding the solar panel, the irony to Appl's
piece is loud and clear.

Going way beyond ironic and touching on the absurd is Emily Puthoff's
"S.I.R.E.N. Surrender Modulis." Through a performance video and other
documentation, Puthoff contemplates the strange coincidence that apparently has
Saddam Hussein, Osama bin Laden and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il all
reportedly devoted fans of Whitney Houston, and in particular Houston's
recording of "I Will Always Love You." "Could it be that this song is the axis
upon which even the fiercest hearts will turn?" Puthoff writes on a diagram of
her project.

Who knows? Perhaps the answer to world peace is Whitney Houston.

jvanryzin@statesman.com; 445-3699

'New American Talent: The Twenty-Third Exhibition
 When: 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays, 1 to 5 p.m. Sundays through Aug. 17.
 Where: Arthouse, 700 Congress Ave.
 Cost: Free
 Information: www.arthousetexas.org, 453-5312



LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Banking fears hit Guaranty's stock

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 641 words


The turmoil in the nation's banking industry jolted Austin-based Guaranty
Financial Group on Tuesday, sending its shares sharply lower.

The shares were down as much as 26 percent during the day but closed off 12.4
percent at $3.59 a share. That is down 80 percent since Guaranty was spun off
from Temple-Inland Inc. in December.

The sudden drop underscored growing investor fears about financial institutions
in a climate of weak real estate loans and the falling value of mortgage-backed
securities.

Guaranty's mortgage business is concentrated in Texas, California and Florida.
In a March 31 securities filing, the company said that more than 50 percent of
its home loans and about 36 percent of its loans to home builders were in
California, which has been hit hard by rising foreclosures and sinking home
sales and prices.

The company also said it had $16.4 billion in assets at that time, including
$10.1 billion in loans and $4.9 billion in securities investments.

Guaranty is in the process of raising $600 million in new capital from
high-profile investors including Robert Rowling, the Dallas billionaire, and
Carl Icahn, who agitated for the Temple-Inland breakup that turned Guaranty into
an independent company. Those transactions are not yet completed.

Separately, the company is seeking to raise $147 million by selling
nontransferrable purchase rights for its stock.

Icahn and Rowling both have said they have confidence in Guaranty's management.
Icahn said he thinks the bank has the ability to "work through current market
conditions."

Guaranty declined to comment Tuesday on the stock drop, citing
regulator-required "quiet periods" ahead of its July 31 second-quarter earnings
report and ongoing efforts to raise more capital.

Bank industry consultants said investors are nervous about financial stocks and
are concerned about heavy loan portfolios tied to markets where there have been
substantial declines in value.

"There are certainly valid concerns," said Stephen Skaggs, president of the
Austin-based Bank Advisory Group, a bank acquisition consulting firm. "When
housing prices drop quickly, there is no way it is not going to have an impact
on institutions that finance the housing sector. Thrift (savings and loan)
stocks have been declining since last October."

Curtis Carpenter, managing director of Sheshunoff & Co., an Austin-based
financial industry consulting firm, said Texas-based financial institutions are
generally in good health right now, with a few exceptions.

"There is a lot of hand-wringing going on with investors about financial
stocks," Carpenter said. "The stock market is pricing worst-case scenarios into
these problem companies."

A few of Guaranty's stock-price-to-

asset ratios are "very, very low," Carpenter said, indicating investor concerns
about the company. "Guaranty strayed from (lending in) Texas, and where they
strayed was where they got into trouble. There is no reason to stray from Texas.
There is plenty of business here."

Texas banks that kept their business close to home, such as Cullen/Frost Bankers
Inc., parent of Frost Bank, are performing well, Carpenter said. Cullen/Frost
shares closed Tuesday at $45.79, down less than 7 percent since the beginning of
the year.

In the first quarter, Guaranty increased its allowance for loan losses to $172
million, up from $71 million a year earlier. However, the company said that
though it had increased its reserves, net charge-offs for bad loans rose only $7
million.

The company disclosed in June that it faced problems with its holdings in
mortgage-backed securities, which have been a trouble spot for many banks.

It disclosed that about 30 percent of its assets were in the form of
mortgage-backed securities and that the fair value of those securities at the
end of March was $1.1 billion below their face value.

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 18, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Do us a favor, Favre, and keep your dignity

BYLINE: CEDRIC GOLDEN AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 630 words


Brett Favre is front-page news right now.

But it's time for him to be less seen. And even less heard.

This guy is starting to resemble the pro-wrestling fan favorite whose every deed
is cheered for years by an adoring public. But now he's turned heel, and his
fans are conflicted.

Their quandary: Do we still blindly cheer for The Swashbuckler even if he is
starting to plummet into the recognizable cavern of self-indulgence we always
hated in others? Or do we turn the page on this aging former hero and thrust our
full support behind the arrogant yet approachable Aaron Rodgers, he of the
strong, yet unproven, arm?

Green Bay fans and management are conflicted, but they shouldn't be. Favre wants
out. Let him go. Easier said than done. The brass must get something for Favre,
preferably in a trade, and avoid the disaster of having him sign with a team in
the NFC.

Amid the ill-timed, I-want-to-come-back announcement and the two-part interview
with Greta Van what's-her-name, Favre is starting to lose some of his dignity.
He was somewhat of a sympathetic figure when the news of his change of heart
broke earlier this month, but now he has taken the offensive.

A quick recap, in case you were out of the country:

The Packers won't say it, but it's evident they want to move on with Rodgers as
starting quarterback. They told Favre he could report to minicamp , but only in
the role of the backup.

Favre told general manager Ted Thompson he wants to be released so he can play
elsewhere. His agent just said there are no immediate plans to apply for
reinstatement and that Favre may wait until the sixth week of the regular season
to make his decision.

Along the way, Favre has basically called Thompson a liar and is well on his way
to splitting a locker room once unified under him. He reportedly even had the
gall to tell the St. Petersburg Times that Tampa Bay was too warm for him and
that he would rather play in a colder climate. Now FoxSports.com is reporting
the Packers have filed tampering charges with the league against their division
rival, the Minnesota Vikings, claiming Minnesota offensive coordinator Darrell
Bevell had an inappropriate conversation with Favre, who is a friend.

The only thing we're missing is a signed contract for a Texas Death Match
between Favre and Thompson, with the Hulkster appearing as the guest referee.

Favre has made his point. And now it's time for him to be quiet.

It's time for him to go back to being the lovable bubba whom national analysts
likened to a pass-throwing Peter Pan when he played well, only to turn a blind
eye when he threw ill-advised ducks into the arms of giddy defensive backs.

With all the drama swirling around the Packers' organization, Favre should do us
all a favor and go underground for a little while. If he wants to come back, he
needs to apply for reinstatement, beat out Rodgers if he can and end his career
in Green Bay. Not Minnesota.

Favre isn't the first NFL legend to waffle about retirement. He's just the first
to hold a franchise hostage for two years and counting.

Former Giant Michael Strahan, like Favre, is a first-ballot Hall of Famer. He
flirted with retirement the last two seasons but didn't present nearly as big a
distraction as Favre. That's because defensive ends don't attract as much
attention as quarterbacks.

By the way, Strahan returned last season, won a Super Bowl and got outta Dodge.

But Favre knows he is bigger than the present-day Packers. He is what Marino was
to the Dolphins. What Montana was to the 49ers. An iconic presence. The most
important figure in his team's recent history.

Favre can make this process really easy on himself (and his fans). And he can do
it in three easy steps:

1. Apply for reinstatement.

2. Go to training camp.

3. Shut up.

cgolden@statesmam.com; 912-5944

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1415 words


AUSTIN

Artist says work was taken

Local artist Leanne Venier said patrons wondered if it was her they saw walk
into the New World Deli on Sunday, pluck a painting off a wall and walk out with
it.

But that wasn't Venier , she said. And it was the second time in about a week
that someone walked into the restaurant and swiped her work.

The abstract oil paintings had been on display since June at the restaurant at
4101 Guadalupe St . Venier said two of them were taken from a front window on
July 19 or 20, but no one saw who did it.

On Sunday, though, she said witnesses saw a woman with a black trash bag walk in
about 1:30 p.m. , put the painting inside the bag, then walk out.

Police were called on both occasions, she said .

She said the paintings were priced at about $600 each. They were three of seven
hanging in the restaurant; the rest have been taken down until a reception
Thursday, she said.

Woman hit by van identified

Austin police on Tuesday identified a woman who was hit by a van July 23.

Valerie Ann Brooks, 46 , was walking in the exit lane from Ed Bluestein
Boulevard (U.S. 183) onto Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard/FM 969 when she was
struck, police said.

Brooks died at the scene.

The driver of the van stayed at the scene, police said.

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

Man sentenced in sex assaults

Williamson County District Judge Billy Ray Stubblefield on Tuesday sentenced a
Cedar Park man to 40 years in prison for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl
and a 12-year-old girl, and for smuggling marijuana into jail.

Ricky Todd Purcell, 24, was accused of assaulting the two girls on numerous
occasions. Purcell admitted to the abuse during a recorded telephone call,
according to Williamson County District Attorney John Bradley.

After Purcell was arrested and in the county jail, corrections officers found
two marijuana cigarettes in a light fixture in his cell.

Purcell pleaded guilty Monday to two felony charges of sexual assault of a child
and one felony charge of possession of a prohibited substance.

He was sentenced to 40 and 20 years in prison for the sexual assault charges and
to 10 years for the possession charge. The sentences will run concurrently.
Purcell will not be eligible for parole until he has served at least 20 years.

Meeting on Texas 29 expanded

An open house meeting scheduled for Monday on the possible expansion of Texas 29
in Williamson County has been extended an hour. It will now be held from 6 to 9
p.m.

Attendees will be able to meet with the engineering firm leading the study and
with county officials, and there will be a presentation on the status of the
project.

The meeting will be at the Liberty Hill High School cafeteria, 13125 W. Texas
29.

Sick leave pool proposal tabled

Williamson County Commissioners tabled a proposal Tuesday that would create a
sick leave pool policy by allowing county employees to donate their extra sick
time to employees who have used up all their hours because of a catastrophic
illness or injury.

Commissioners voted 5-0 to table the item so they could have a week to review it
and get clarification on wording in the proposed policy.

The idea for a sick leave pool has been in the works for more than a year, but
the issue gained momentum after two county employees recently used up almost all
of their sick time to care for their ill spouses.

The proposal would put donated sick hours into a pool that employees, who have
maxed out their sick time because of a catastrophe, would then be able to apply
for.

The commissioners are expected to consider the proposal again at their Aug. 5
meeting.

INSURANCE STUDY

Many drivers uninsured

A large number of drivers on Texas highways and roads do not have auto
insurance, according to a Texas insurance organization.

A 60-day pilot project testing the TexasSure program, which allows law
enforcement personnel via computer to verify coverage status when they stop a
motorist, focused on Travis County. During the test, which is expected to end
soon, Texas Department of Public Safety troopers have stopped and ticketed
uninsured drivers.

So far, 25.5 percent of 5,012 drivers stopped in Travis County and small
portions of Williamson and Hays counties since June 2 did not have auto
insurance.

"The numbers show that Texas has an even larger number of uninsured drivers than
we had realized," said Mark Hanna, spokesman for the Insurance Council of Texas,
in a story Tuesday in the online editions of the Houston Chronicle and the San
Antonio Express-News.

The council has been monitoring the state's new auto insurance verification
program.

This spring, the minimum amount of liability insurance Texas drivers are
required to have increased for the first time in 22 years. Hanna said he didn't
think the higher requirement was a factor in the lack of coverage because the
effect on premiums was minimal.

BASTROP COUNTY

Charges against pastor reduced

A Bastrop County judge dropped felony intoxication assault charges against a
minister accused of crashing a pickup into a Smithville restaurant in a
drunken-driving accident. The Rev. Karel Fink, 61, pastor at St. Paul Parish in
Smithville, still faces prosecution on driving while intoxicated charges in
connection with the June 18 incident.

Fink had been driving to the La Cabaña Restaurant west of Smithville on Texas 71
when he drove into the building at a low speed, stopping 10 feet into the
building, officials said. Fink had said he stepped on the gas when he meant to
step on the brakes, officials said. Ten people were injured in the crash, but
none seriously.

DPS officials said Fink's blood alcohol level was more than twice the .08 legal
limit in Texas. Fink had completed treatment for alcoholism within weeks before
the crash, Catholic Diocese of Austin officials have said.

CENTRAL TEXAS

Traffic top of mind, study finds

Traffic congestion tops Central Texans' concerns when they think about
challenges facing the region as the population grows, according to a study
released Tuesday by Envision Central Texas, a nonprofit regional planning
organization.

Envision Central Texas conducted the study along with TIP Strategies Inc. of
Austin to gauge progress toward the "Regional Vision" presented by the planning
group in 2004 for the five counties in the region: Bastrop, Caldwell, Hays,
Travis and Williamson.

In addition to traffic congestion, study participants noted concerns about
planning for growth, saying smaller communities lack resources, and placed high
priority on environmental concerns, including open space preservation and
climate change.

The study is based on interviews with 26 business owners and community leaders,
online survey results of nearly 1,000 participants, and focus groups and public
workshops that reached about 400 participants. The study is posted on the
Envision Central Texas Web site: www.envisioncentraltexas.org.

LEANDER

Some residents must boil water

The City of Leander has issued a boil-water notice for some residents after
malfunctions in the water supply system expected until this morning .

Residents in the Boulders, Fairways, Grand Mesa and Crystal Falls subdivisions
should boil water for drinking, cooking and washing until about 10 a.m. today,
City Engineer Wayne Watts said.

Watts said a surge-release valve at the Sandy Creek Water Treatment Plant did
not close early Tuesday, causing clean water to be pumped into a bypass lagoon
at the plant. At the same time, the system that kicks on the backup water supply
from Cedar Park malfunctioned.

Watts said the first alarms went off about 4:30 a.m. He said the backup system
was turned on manually about 5:45 a.m. The city began receiving water again from
the Sandy Creek plant about 7 a.m.

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

3 children taken from family

After a 3-year-old was beaten to death in a North Austin home this month, a
judge ruled Tuesday that the other three children who lived in the home will
remain in foster care.

Timothy Moncebiaz, 27, and Deborah DaSilva, 24, have both been charged in the
death of Angelica Ubillus, DaSilva's 3-year-old daughter. Officials say
Moncebiaz bit, threw and shook the 3-year-old on July 14. DaSilva, according to
an arrest affidavit, knew that the child had been injured but did not call for
help until the next morning. Angelica died later that day.

Officials said three other children lived in the house. Moncebiaz has a
5-year-old son, and DaSilva has a 2-year-old and 6-month-old. DaSilva's children
are together in a foster home, but it was unknown if Moncebiaz's child was with
them.

Compiled from staff reports

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 389 words


MEDIA

Texas Monthly cuts salaries, 13 jobs

Emmis Publishing, the Indianapolis-based owner of Texas Monthly, has eliminated
13 positions at the Austin-based magazine in a companywide cutback.

In addition to the staff cuts of about 4.5 percent throughout the company, Emmis
also instituted "a salary reduction for current employees, generally equaling 2
percent."

An Emmis spokeswoman said the 13 eliminated positions included "about an even
mix of employees who were notified Tuesday and open positions that will remain
unfilled."

Michael Levy, who announced earlier this year that he is stepping down as
publisher at the end of August, is included among the 13, Emmis said. Levy will
remain through the end August, as planned, the company said.

Emmis said that Texas Monthly has 104 remaining employees in its Austin, Dallas,
Houston and New York offices.

GROCERS

Whole Foods eliminates 11 more jobs

Whole Foods Market Inc., which cut 49 jobs at its Austin headquarters this week,
cut another 11 jobs at its Southwest regional headquarters, which is also in
Austin.

Spokeswoman Libba Letton cited "the current economic climate and the fact that
we are slowing the growth of our new store openings and reducing corporate
expenses."

The regional operations include 19 stores in Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas and
Oklahoma.

GOVERNMENT

Two join Public Utility Commission

Kenneth Anderson of Dallas and Donna Nelson of Austin have been appointed to the
Texas Public Utility Commission by Gov. Rick Perry.

Anderson is an attorney who also has served as Perry's appointments secretary
and a similar position with former Gov. William Clements. His term begins Sept.
2 and runs until Sept. 1, 2011.

Nelson was a special assistant and adviser to Perry's office on energy,
telecommunications and cable budget and policy issues and has previously served
as legal adviser to the PUC chairman. Her term begins Monday and will expire
Sept. 1, 2009.

ADVERTISING

Barfly Interactive Networks is bought

Barfly Interactive Networks, an Austin company that lets bars wrap interactive
content and advertising around the picture on TVs, has been bought.

The buyer, TouchTunes, has digital jukeboxes in 35,000 restaurants and bars in
North America.

Barfly's 30 employees will remain in Austin, and the unit will retain the Barfly
name. Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 13, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Jewish lobbyist will be on hand for dialogue on politics, religion

BYLINE: Eileen E. Flynn AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 499 words


Rabbi David Saperstein , a veteran religious lobbyist, will speak tonight on
Jewish values and how they can inform voters in the upcoming presidential
election.

Saperstein, director of the Religious Action Center, lobbies on behalf of the
national Reform Jewish Movement, the largest denomination of Judaism, taking on
issues ranging from the environment to Israel.

Rabbi Alan Freedman , who leads Temple Beth Shalom, a congregation at the Dell
Jewish Community Center campus in Northwest Austin, said he hopes Saperstein
will draw an interfaith audience, noting that the issues advanced by Reform
Judaism are important to other believers as well. In addition to concerns about
Israel's security and the national economy, Freedman said, members of his
congregation seem to be passionate about creating universal access to health
care.

On Friday, Saperstein discussed how people of faith interact with the federal
government and talked about the history of the Religious Action Center. The
center, established in Washington in 1961, helped draft the Civil Rights and
Voting Rights acts in the 1960s, has fought to preserve separation between
church and state and, more recently, has taken a stand on global warming.

It's important to remind Jews of their active involvement in shaping social
change in the United States, Saperstein said.

"Jews have been disproportionately involved in almost every cause for social
justice in the last century in the United States," he said. "That prophetic
tradition is clearly something we nurture and encourage through the work of the
(center)."

Tonight's talk, titled "Jewish Voices/Jewish Votes: Our Politics and Our
Religion," will delve into the current political climate. Saperstein will
discuss the center's main political concerns, including the environment, the
economy, health care, the makeup of the Supreme Court and the prospects of peace
in the Middle East.

Freedman said most of the Religious Action Center's positions are more aligned
with the political left but pointed out that Saperstein avoids partisanship.

"I think it's important to realize that while there's clearly a separation of
church and state, that doesn't mean we can't bring a religious perspective to
our political decision making," Freedman said. "There's a difference between
those two things."

Jews, like other people of faith, hold "certain ethical and moral points of
views that help us to evaluate who's in the best position to be able to fulfill
that vision."

"Particularly in the Jewish world, the idea is often spoke of as prophetic
Judaism," he added, "an emphasis on the world as envisioned by the prophets."

That approach, he said, should appeal to non-Jews as well, especially Christians
and Muslims who trace their spiritual lineage to Judaism.

eflynn@statesman.com; 445-3812

Politics and religion
 Rabbi David Saperstein, Religious Action Center
 When: 7:30 tonight
 Where: Community Hall, Dell Jewish Community Center, 7300 Hart Lane
 Information: www.bethshalomaustin.org , 735-8900



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Watson proposes panel for increasing flagships

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz AMERICAN-STATESMAN staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 498 words


A blue-ribbon panel would be established to help navigate the politically dicey
question of which Texas universities should be elevated to top-tier status under
legislation introduced Monday by state Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin.

Texas has three top-tier institutions: the public University of Texas and Texas
A&M University and the private Rice University. In contrast, California has nine
schools in the big leagues, New York has seven, and Pennsylvania has four. Such
schools, which emphasize research as well as teaching, are powerful engines of
economic and intellectual advancement.

"My priority list starts with higher education," Watson said in a speech to
leaders of real estate, environmental, business and other groups.

In the legislative session beginning in January, the senator also will push for
measures intended to boost economic development, make Texas a leader in
renewable energy sources such as wind and solar power, and reduce emissions of
so-called greenhouse gases linked to global warming, he said.

He called on fellow lawmakers to be more open to legislative proposals that
might increase spending in the short term, noting that such proposals sometimes
save money in the long run. For example, he said, the state has failed to
adequately fund the Children's Health Insurance Program, under which the federal
government provides $2.60 for every state dollar.

In the past six years, Texas has left hundreds of millions in federal money on
the table.

Watson spoke at the Bullock Texas State History Museum, a location apparently
chosen to emphasize his frequent references to how past leaders invested wisely
in higher education institutions, transportation networks and other
infrastructure of modern life. By contrast, he said, current power brokers
aren't doing enough to ensure sufficient opportunity for future generations.

He cited higher education as a case in point. Many elected officials say Texas
needs more top-tier, or flagship, schools, but a consensus has been elusive on
which campuses merit the steady infusions of cash that would be needed for a
decade or two to reach that level. Such schools generally conduct at least $100
million in research annually, and they compete nationally for students and
faculty members.

Watson's higher education measure, Senate Bill 185 , is a variation of a
proposal he offered last year that Gov. Rick Perry vetoed, saying the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board already had authority to deal with the
matter.

The proposal would create a 20-member commission charged with recommending to
the Legislature which schools should become flagships.

Members of the panel would come from various university systems, community
colleges, private colleges, businesses and other sectors - a cross-section of
interests that Watson hopes would work to suppress politics and give the panel
clout along the lines of that enjoyed by a federal commission that decided which
military bases should be closed.

rhaurwitz@statesman.com; 445-3604

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Obamas can personalize parts of the White House

BYLINE: PETER MONGILLO AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 498 words


Hearing about the Obamas getting ready to move into the White House, I was
wondering, how much do they get to customize and how much stays the same? Do
they get to change decorations, etc., in the private residence?

-B.D.

The new first family can decorate the private residence of the White House
however they'd like, according to White House Historical Association spokeswoman
Maria Downs. Malia and Sasha Obama can even paint their rooms (with their
parents' permission, of course). The White House curator is available to help
them decorate to their liking, including using pieces from the White House
collection of fine arts.

In addition to decorating the private residence, the first lady is traditionally
the honorary chairwoman of the Committee for the Preservation of the White
House, which oversees the White House as a museum. Downs worked as social
secretary to first lady Betty Ford.

How do I preserve my newspaper from Wednesday, Nov. 5, announcing Barack Obama's
election?

-N.H.

Jim Stroud, associate director at the Ransom Center, recommends good storage as
the best way to preserve your keepsake. Newsprint is not meant to last very
long. Light, heat and humidity can all lead to deterioration, so you'll want to
store your paper in a climate-controlled area. Pick up acid-free boxes and
tissue at The Container Store, 9629 Research Blvd. Also, check out Light
Impressions, lightimpressionsdirect.com, for archival storage sleeves and boxes.
Although there are some commercial solvents that can remove acid and prolong the
life of the paper, you run the risk of causing the ink to run or otherwise
damaging the document.

For more information, visit the Ransom Center's conservation FAQ site at
www.hrc.utexas.edu/conservation/resources/faq/.

I was under the impression that the inside lanes on most four-lane highways were
passing lanes only. Yet every time I am on the highway, there is always someone
in the left lane driving 5 or 10 mph below the speed limit, blocking traffic and
forcing cars to pass them on the right side. Most of the time, but not always,
this errant driver is on a cell phone. Is this illegal?

-D.P.

If there is a "left lane for passing only" sign, then that's the rule. If there
isn't a sign, the Texas transportation code states "an operator may not drive so
slowly as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law."
Tickets can be issued for both violations by any law enforcement agency with
jurisdiction in the area, says Department of Public Safety spokesman Tom Vinger.
With the exception of bus drivers transporting minors and certain situations
involving drivers under 18, there is no law against cell phone usage while
driving in Texas.

Follow me on Twitter

Ask questions, comment and get "Question Everything" updates on
www.twitter.com/pmongillo.

Contact Peter Mongillo at P.O. Box 670, Austin 78767; 445-3697; e-mail
pmongillo@statesman.com or fax 445-3968.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 1, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Clever cocktails, well-chosen guests add sparkle to holiday fests

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1189 words


As Michael Corcoran puts it: New Year's Eve is "amateur night."

Still, Monday's reveling probably peaked in Marfa, where social connectors
Eugene Sepulveda and Steven Tomlinson planned to rock the Rock Hudson suite at
the Hotel Paisano with dozens of other Central Texans and Davis Mountains
ex-pats.

Stuck in Austin, I scheduled a special NYE Club Soda Club Crawl\u2122 of the
Warehouse District and West Sixth Street with fashion writer Marques Harper.
This print column bumps into an early Monday deadline, so no report yet, but you
can catch up with our midnight perambulations online at
austin360.com/outandabout.

*

The cocktail party is back. Dinner jackets and smart dresses. Dense, intense
appetizers. Clever drinks served in sleek glasses. Chatter that dances over the
serious while savoring the latest tidbit.

There was nothing ironic or campy about the mad holiday cocktail party thrown
Saturday by Austin Chronicle arts editor Robert Faires and his wife, Zachary
Scott Theatre Center luminary Barbara Chisholm. One could order an "Out & About"
(as served at Katz's: Bombay Sapphire gin, straight, up, olives, clean), or
experiment with a cranberry Mexican martini, or a little thingie with prickly
pear juice that glowed like an orchid.

The host and hostess set up a cocktail table at the rear of the house, and, for
once, the crowd didn't merge in the kitchen or around the copiously laden dining
table. Instead, they clung close to those martinis in the making.

Among the guests: real estate rising star Sarita Kuykendall; Zach Scott helmer
Dave Steakley and his real-life leading man, Tony Johnson; publisher and
environmental advocate Ted Siff and his wife, top-shelf actor Janelle Buchanan;
songbird (and, this evening, sharpest of wits) Meredith McCall; playwright and
consummate gentleman Steve Moore; innovative director (and, this evening,
clotheshorse) Katie Pearl; Winedale magus James Loehlin and his scarlet-draped
wife, Laurel; Texas Book Festival brain and brawn Clay Smith; playwright and wag
Colin Swanson; AC's Nick Barbaro (reminiscing about Italy) and his wife, Susan
Moffat; wide-ranging publicist - flying solo like myself this evening - Brenda
Thompson; Zach Scott board member and real estate insider Theran Greer;
all-around-theater-man Lowell Bartholomee; and entertainer and global do-gooder
Turk Pipkin and his wife, Christy, who produced Turk's master project,
"Nobelity."

It could have gone on all night. And maybe it did. I had just enough
conversation and those prickly pear thingies before strolling the two Bouldin
neighborhood blocks back home.

*

A smashing dinner party starts, of course, with exceptional food and drink. A
warm, welcoming home also encourages diners to feel comfortable and sociable,
even if they are, at evening's start, strangers.

Public relations specialist and sometime journalist Karen Frost understands all
this. Her creekside house off Hancock Drive fairly rustled with seasonal
decorations last week and offered plenty of niches for uncorking, nibbling and
conversing. At the evening climax, she served a chicken curry taken from Helen
Corbitt's 1957 cookbook, a family holiday tradition.

Yet what made this dinner party memorable was the ingredient that too many hosts
ignore or slight: the carefully calibrated mix of guests. Frost blended arts and
journalism with international relations by inviting the Chisholm Trail
Communities Foundation's Tamara Hudgins and her husband, Texas Film Commission
top man Bob Hudgins, National Public Radio reporter John Burnett and the
miraculously unflagging Pipkins.

This cozy group discussed the situations in India, Nepal, Uganda and Central
America; the movie industry in Texas, Louisiana and New Mexico; holiday
traditions in various cultures (the next night, the Pipkins were to hold their
annual Christmas drop-by, including bonfire); changing American taste in food;
long-distance air travel for tall folk (several of the guests rise significantly
over 6 feet) and its best antidote (Ambien received several votes); the state of
daily newspapers; the year's best movies; underground politics in Williamson
County; and, well, that's just a beginning.

Put interesting people with diverse interests in the same place, feed and water
them well and just allow the conversation to flow. Sounds easy, but few do it as
well as Frost. As she says, "This term only applies to dinner parties: Smaller
is better."

*

Denzel Washington thought he looked too smart. So Austin's Glen Powell Jr., who
auditioned for the role of an Oklahoma student in "The Great Debaters," came
away with a higher-profile slot as a Harvard University orator who faces down
the upstart team from all-black Wiley College.

At 19, University of Texas freshman Powell has already built an impressive list
of film credits, starting with "Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over" in 2003 and including
"The Hottest State," "Fast Food Nation" and "Jumping From Bridges." Wearing
scuffed boots that unintentionally match his status as a fraternity brother and
an impossibly winning smile, Powell sat in the shade at Jo's Hot Coffee with his
mother and manager, Cyndy Powell, who has helped keep her son on an even career
keel.

For instance, the Austin native balanced his early acting stints at Austin
Musical Theatre with sports (football and lacrosse) and Westwood High School's
business club. And he's majoring in economics at UT. "You need a backup plan,"
he said. "If the acting thing doesn't work, I may go into entertainment
finance."

Powell studied debate at Westwood under winning coach Alex Pritchard, and after
nabbing the movie role, Powell was whisked off to Texas Southern University to
bone up on the less policy-oriented 1930s debating style, research he took quite
seriously. During the shoot, Washington encouraged Powell to play his debater as
a "blue blood who never loses" and coached him to pause, button his tuxedo and
stare at his listeners before starting his key speech.

"He gives you a lot of freedom," Powell said. "But he knows what he wants and he
likes to see others succeed."

Next up? Powell plays a pot-head in "40 Love," which films in the Austin area
this winter, and which he describes as "Caddyshack" for the tennis set.

Lucky much?

Powell agreed: "Yeah, my life's like 'High School Musical' without all the
singing."

*

With a glint in his eye, John Kelso accepted my bet on killer lofts. In last
week's Out & About, I challenged the veteran columnist to name just one Austin
icon flattened to erect those high-ceilinged urban residences he regularly
mocks, with the promise of a bottle from Qua or Pangaea - two of his favored
la-de-da targets - if he succeeded. After consulting some old-timers, Kelso
nominated the Littlefield Quarters, recently purchased by Tom Stacy's company,
which rose almost 30 years ago on the original site of Antone's at East Sixth
and Brazos streets. "They are standard lofts," says Bryan Pope, who manages the
24 renovated rentals, which - hint, hint - reserve some vacancies on the noisy
intersection. "There's no other way to describe them."

Kelso quips: "That should be good enough for a six-pack."

mbarnes@statesman.com, 445-3970

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 910 words


Great service at PEC

The Pedernales Electric Cooperative board has shown major flaws in its
governance.

Despite this, PEC provides great service at a lower cost than Austin Energy.

Maybe it's time to look into the business patterns of Austin Energy.

ROBERT SIMPKINS

Austin

Creationism

Re: Jan. 10 article "Creationist school waits for word on degree plan."

The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and its commissioner should reject
accreditation of a master's degree in science education at the Institute for
Creation Research in Dallas.

The institute says on its Web site that its goal is "to prepare science teachers
and other individuals to understand the universe within the integrating
framework of Biblical creationism." This unequivocally puts its degree plan
outside of science and firmly within a religious context.

We have enough academic problems in Texas without introducing another thinly
veiled attempt to discredit the rock solid theory of evolution.

ROM WELBORN

Austin

I'm not with him

Judging from his recent constituent form letter - "Knowing of our shared
interest in changing the president's policy on Iraq "" - U.S. Rep. Lloyd
Doggett, D-Texas, apparently assumes that voters outside Austin's warm blue
cocoon are in lock-step with his railing.

How clueless. Doggett and I - a retired Air Force officer and lifelong
Republican - are from different galaxies, politically and militarily.

His diatribes against the president's efforts to combat Islam's deadly threat to
Western civilization spiritually and materially detract from our fight to the
death with jihadists. Doggett's naiveté that diplomatic "dancing" or
neo-isolationism can thwart terrorism is simply whistling past the graveyard.

PHIL BRANDT

Austin

Leadership development

Re: Dec. 1 article "Higher education leading increase in number of jobs" and
Jan. 2 article "Experience withers as boomers leave jobs."

Texas employs more people (nearly 290,000) in state universities and schools
than all other state agencies combined. The state faces a growing challenge as
retiring baby boomers leave their jobs in less experienced hands.

The University of Texas System is responsible for more than 80,000 of those jobs
and competes hard to recruit top personnel. But we recognize that hiring isn't
enough to develop future leaders. As baby boomers retire and competition for top
faculty and staff intensifies, we must be proactive in producing 21st century
leaders.

Through our Leadership Institute, the UT System will focus on team building,
faculty productivity and recruitment - the basics of good leadership and
management for most organizations, not just universities. Leadership development
is a key to our success and is critical to enhancing the human resources in
which our state invests.

GERI H. MALANDRA, PH.D.

Vice chancellor

for strategic management

UT System

gmalandra@utsystem.edu

Austin

Fixing Social Security?

Try to explain to your representative that the rich man's last dollar is just as
eligible to be taxed as the poor man's first dollar.

Most people don't know that if they should be so fortunate as to earn $97,500
dollars a year, everything they make above that is not taxed for Social
Security. Everything anyone earns below that is taxed for Social Security.

To secure the funding of Social Security, all earnings should be subject to the
tax, not just all the earnings of the people in the lower brackets.

ENID M. HALLOCK

Austin

Kinder capitalism

Re: Jan. 5 commentary "Unfettered capitalism hurts a nation's economic soul."

Thank you, Thomas G. Palaima, for having the courage to write what should be
abundantly clear to thinking, caring, honest people - a society and government
built on greed and self-interest "hurts a nation's economic soul."

His column seemed to channel a discussion I had with my husband. I fear that if
we don't take steps soon to reform our hard-line capitalistic structure, the
future for my children will be bleak.

In today's political climate, it seems seditious to speak against the unfettered
capitalism that reigns at almost all levels of government. I certainly want to
be rewarded for my work and ingenuity, but I also feel a responsibility for
helping those less fortunate, taking care of our environment and working to
provide opportunities for the next generation.

What about a gentler, kinder form of capitalism that also focuses on the concept
of "the greater good"?

KELLY WHITE

Austin

More highways?

Re: Jan. 1 2008 agenda editorial "Road woes still creating everyday stress."

The American-Statesman recognizes that fossil fuel power plants contribute to
global warming. But in its support for expanding area highways as toll roads, it
ignores the greenhouse gas increases that come with highway expansions.

Concrete manufacturing is a big source of man-made carbon dioxide emissions.
Concrete is a critical component in highway construction.

After highways are expanded, people live farther from where they work,
increasing miles driven. This means more carbon dioxide emissions heating our
planet.

Worsening our addiction to car-based transportation by spending $1.5 billion to
expand highways as toll roads in Central Texas is foolish for many reasons. The
direct relationship to greenhouse gas emissions is just one.

Can the Statesman provide evidence that expanding highways reduces traffic
congestion? Houston, Atlanta and Los Angeles all have massive highway systems
and are highly congested.

COLIN CLARK

Save Our Springs Alliance

colin@sosalliance.org

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 29, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 5695 words


In Loving Memory of

Lillie L. Wyatt Veal

Feb. 28, 1899 - Jan. 16, 2001

My best friend, Happy Birthday.

Your children, Kitty, Mae, Eula, and grandchildren

Leora Vivian (Deedy) Wallace

Leora Vivian (Deedy) Wallace, age 100, passed away Thursday, February 28, 2008.

She was a member of Haynie Chapel United Methodist Church.

Mrs. Wallace was preceded in death by her husband, William F. Wallace.

Survivors include her son, Bill Wallace and wife Virginia; three grandchildren,
Randy Wallace and wife Anita Jo, Rusty Wallace and wife Christy and Rhett
Wallace and wife Elizabeth; nine great-grandchildren; several nieces and nephews
including James Wallace who was like her second son.

Funeral service will be held at 2:00 p.m., Saturday, March 1, 2008 at Haynie
Chapel United Methodist Church. Burial will follow at Haynie Chapel Cemetery.

Family visitation after services will be held at the Fellowship Hall of Haynie
Chapel United Methodist Church.

Pallbearers will be Ryan Wallace, Ben Wallace, Scott Wallace, Taylor Wallace,
Justin Wallace and James Wallace. Honorary pallbearers will be Samantha Wallace,
Rachel Wallace, Baileigh Sweet and Kamryn Wallace.

Family request that in lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to
Haynie Chapel United Methodist Church.

Almetriss Morrine Earls

Walker

Almetriss Walker, age 83, passed peacefully from "here" to "there" on February
24, 2008.

Beloved matriarch to many will forever be remembered and cherished.

She was preceded in death by husband James Walker, Sr., and five children James,
Jr., Steven, Marvin, Marvoline and Grayland. Remaining are Charles, Phillip, and
Patricia (Pat), plus a host of grandchildren, great-grands, nieces and nephews.

Okay BeBe, now you're free to see Madrid. - Stef

The funeral services will be held at 11:00 a.m., Saturday, March 1, 2008, at
David Chapel Missionary Baptist Church, 2211 E. MLK Blvd., Austin, TX. Interment
will be at the Evergreen Cemetery.

Services have been entrusted to Fuller Sheffield Funeral Home.

Gradi Johanna Cristina Van Dalen Sterling

Born in Bussum, Holland.

Passed in Austin, Texas.

Mother was preceded in death by her husband, Richard H. Sterling, and daughter,
Margaret Michelle (Peggy) Sterling, stepdaughter, Betty Stewart, and stepson,
David Sterling.

She leaves to mourn her passing: son, Rolf R. Sterling; daughter, Gradi Sterling
Rocamora; son-in- law, Alberico Rocamora; grandson, Dylan Rocamora; brother,
Douwe Van Dalen of Holland; and, step-children Richard H. Sterling, Fred
Sterling and Elinor Smith. Many cousins, nieces and nephews in various parts of
the world are left to mourn as well.

Gradi retired in 1992 from the University of Texas having spent many wonderful
years at the Language Lab.

Gradi was blessed with many friends: the Dutch group, Les Girls group, BHWC,
SAGE, and her Bridge group. She enjoyed being part of these groups and the
individual friendships that flourished from them.

Born in Holland and living in the many countries daddy's job provided, mother
remained active and involved. She made sure that each home country and our
worldwide, family travels were teeming with life and a lifetime of adventures
and experiences. If there was something to see, we saw it. One thing that will
always be remembered is once in route to the Philippines we had an 11-hour
layover in Hawaii. Instead of sitting in the airport and waiting like most
people, off we went trying our hand at surfing at Waikiki Beach and touring
Diamond Head. It was always like that with mother.

Gradi enjoyed life and took each day for the most she could get out of it. Her
spirit soared high and will now soar higher.

We would like to thank Dr. David Joseph and Dr. Celia Cervantes for the
excellent care they provided mother, as well as, Lighthouse Hospice.

Mother loved flowers but feels that a contribution to the American Heart
Association, American Cancer Association would be better served.

A memorial service will be held at St. Matthews Episcopal Church, 8134 Mesa
Drive, on Saturday, March 1st at 3pm.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

SeMaya (Maya) Michele Simon

SeMaya Michele Simon was born July 25, 2005 and departed this life February 25,
2008. Services 3:00 p.m. Saturday, March 1, 2008 at David Chapel Missionary
Baptist Church. Interment Cook Walden Capital Parks.

(King-Tears Mortuary, Inc.)

Carolle Ann Shugart

Carolle Ann Shugart, 68, Beloved Mother and Grandmother, went home to be with
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, after losing her courageous battle with
cancer on Monday February 25, 2008 while surrounded by her family. Through all
her trials, she never lost her incredible wit or sense of humor. She dearly
loved her children, her jewelry making and her Cocker Spaniels.

She was born in Amarillo, TX on September 15, 1939. Carolle is survived by her
children, Tom Shugart and wife Tammie of Austin, Tim Shugart and wife Kathy of
Austin, Candy Orn of Austin and Kristi McKeown and her fiancee Keith Ryder of
San Marcos; sister-in-law, Gerry Kaufman of McAllen, TX; her 12 grandchildren,
Misty, Ray, Suzanne, Jennifer, Brittany, Steven, Jared, Brandy, Sarah, Asilynn,
Bridget, Travis and five nieces and two nephews. She was preceded in death by
her parents, Paul Edward Kaufman Sr. and Glenna Lou (Fairey) Kaufman and her
brother, Paul Edward Kaufman Jr.

A memorial service will be held on Saturday, March 1, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. at King
of Kings Lutheran Church Round Rock, TX.

The family wishes to extend a special thank you to all the caregivers of Park
Bend Health Care Center and Hospice Austin's Christopher House for their care
and support. And to Vicar Richard, a heartfelt Thank You!

Our beautiful Mother, Mother-In-Law, Grandmother and Friend will be greatly
missed by all of us. Your time here was much too short - We Love You So Very
Much!

Charles "Butch" Shaw

Charles "Butch" Shaw, age 60, of Austin, Texas, formerly of Waco, Texas, passed
away on Sunday, February 24, 2008 in Austin. He was born in Temple, Texas to
parents Charles and Iris Shaw.

Butch was a graduate of Waco High School in 1966 and continued his education at
Sam Houston State University where he received his Bachelor of Science degree in
Criminal Justice in 1970. While pursuing his degree, he worked in the Huntsville
Prison System where he became involved in working closely with inmates, which
helped in his career in the mental health field.

Butch was the Director of Vocational Programs, Heart of Texas Industries, a
division of the Heart of Texas Region MHMR for 32 years in Waco, Texas. He was
also involved in many community activities. One of his greatest achievements and
joys was providing for special needs citizens of all ages. He and his wife
Beverly were key organizers of the "Annual Fishing Event for Really Special
People" for twenty years and recognized in Waco as well as the Central Texas
area for their dedication, service, and support.

Butch proudly and unselfishly served his community which is evidenced by his
additional community service awards which include The McLennan County
Association of Retarded Citizens Board of Directors, as a United Way Loan
Executive, as a member of the Heart of Texas Private Industry Council, honored
as the Public employee of the Year by the Waco Mayor's Committee for the
Disabled, a committee member of Keep Waco Beautiful Recycling Committee, a
volunteer for numerous non-profit fundraising activities, a MHMR Representative
for the Downtown Waco Association, MHMR representative for the Waco Chamber of
Commerce, member and recognized as The Optimist Club Citizen of the Year, as
well as being given the Masonic Lodge Community Builder Award.

He was preceded in death by parents Charles and Iris Shaw. Butch leaves behind a
loving family that includes his wife Beverly, daughter Nancy Van Hoy and husband
Ferguson, and is a recent proud papa of his grandson Braden Van Hoy all from
Denton, son Kevin Shaw of Austin, stepsons Brad Baxley of Austin, Jeremy Grisham
of Dallas, and stepdaughter Devon Grisham of Austin. He also leaves behind a
brother Jim Shaw and wife Peggy of Austin, and sisters Donna Shaw of Austin and
Debbie Shaw of Wilmer along with nieces and nephews, Andrea, Micheal Ann, Jonah,
Matt, Heather, Jason, Amy, and other special relatives who held a special place
in his heart.

As a boy, one of his greatest loves was baseball, and he continued this love by
coaching numerous Waco Little League programs, in which his sons Kevin and
Jeremy participated in for many years. His greatest motto to the kids was his
saying of "never quit".

Butch was a member of the Longhorn Foundation and deeply committed to all things
burnt orange and could be found giving the "Hook `Em" sign anywhere and
everywhere he went. He was also a member of the Sea Ray owner's club which
helped in fulfilling one of his lifetime dreams, a 36' Sedan Bridge, "Chillin'
Time".

He was also known for his passion for life and his raw optimism. He greatly
enjoyed boating, music and wining and dining with family and friends. Butch
loved to laugh and was seen as a positive spirit among his family and friends.

Butch was a loving and supportive father who taught the importance of character,
integrity, and pride to his children. His love extended beyond his immediate
family and he was known to easily accept many friends and others into his own
family, and constantly putting other people's needs ahead of his own.

Butch was a loving husband, father, brother, and friend. A Special thanks from
Butch and the family go to staff of Sail and Ski Yacht Club Marina, HOTRMHMR
staff, and the many friends and relatives who have given an enormous amount of
quick support to help him with his Celebration of Life.

A Lakeside memorial service and catered Celebration Party in honor of Butch's
life will be held on Friday, February 29, 2008 beginning at 12:00 Noon at the
Sail and Ski Yacht Club, 16406 Stewart Rd., Lakeway, Texas 78734 (512) 266-2507.

Dress attire will be "Jimmy Buffett" casual style. Covered seating area will be
available.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to one of the following
organizations; American Diabetes Association, P.O. Box 11454, Alexandria, VA
22312, The UT Longhorn Foundation, P.O. Box 13178, Austin, Texas 78711-3178, The
Alzheimer's Association, North Central Texas Chapter, 101 Summit Ave., Suite
300, Fort Worth, Texas 76102, or to CLL Global Research Foundation, M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, Attn: Dr. Michael Keating, P.O. Box 301402, Unit 428,
Houston, Texas 77230.

--Butch, we love you and will miss you always!

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Mrs. Elvira C. Rodriguez

April 15, 1920 - Feb. 27, 2008

Mrs. Elvira C. Rodriguez, 87, of Austin, passed away Wednesday, February 27,
2008. Funeral service will be at 2:00 p.m. Friday at the Angel Funeral Home.
Burial will follow in Assumption Cemetery.

Mrs. Rodriguez was preceded in death by her husband, Tomas Rodriguez, Sr., and a
son, Tomas Rodriugez, Jr.

She is survived by her daughters, Bertha Reaume, Mary Ann Vasquez, Janie Romero,
sons, Lupe Rodriguez, Pete Rodriguez, Ernest Rodriguez; brother, Jesus Casarez,
25 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and 1 great- great-grandchild.

Joyce Adell Olds-McKinney

Joyce Adell Olds-McKinney was born to Rossie Thornton and Arthur James Taylor on
September 24, 1954 in El Campo, TX. She received her early education in the
Austin Public School District, attended E. A. Greer High School in El Campo, TX
and later attended Del Valle High School, Del Valle, TX.

Joyce was employed with "The Castilian" at the University of Texas Systems for
many years. Upon her death she was employed with Child Incorporated. Joyce will
be missed for the love, hard work and dedication she gave to the staff and
especially the children.

Visitation Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. at King-Tears Mortuary. Services will
be held 2:00 p.m. Saturday, March 1, 2008 at St. James Missionary Baptist
Church. Interment Evergreen Cemetery. Arrangements by A Life Celebration by
Franklin.

Sherry Marvel

Sherry Marvel, beloved daughter, sister, aunt, and friend died on Feb 24, 2008.
Sherry loved family and friends, cats and horses, her motorcycle, and travel.
She was a volunteer Firefighter, EMT, aspiring model and Saleswoman at Woods Fun
Center. She was caring and quick to help you out in a moments notice. She was
adventurous and always after a new adrenaline rush, water skiing one day and sky
diving the next. She is survived by her mother, brother, two sisters and
extended family.

A Memorial Service will be held on Sat. March 1, 2008 at Country Inn, 13681 HWY
183 N at 3:00 p.m. in the meeting room.

Juanita Hanson Kennedy

Juanita Hanson Kennedy, age 95, passed away on February 28 in Dallas. She was
born in Elgin, Texas and lived in the Austin area most of her life. She was
preceded in death by her husband of 61 years, William C. Kennedy, Sr., a banker
in Austin for over 50 years, primarily at Capital National Bank.

One of her favorite activities was playing bridge with the girls at Austin
Country Club. She and her husband belonged to several dance clubs and enjoyed
playing cards with friends. Through the end of her life, she retained her
uncanny wit and positive humor. She brightened all of our lives with her gentle
smile and will forever live in our hearts.

Juanita is survived by her sons, Bill Kennedy, Jr. and his wife Patti of Dallas,
Joe Kennedy of Honolulu, and Don Kennedy of Dallas and Jo-Anne Kennedy of Santa
Rosa, CA; former daughter-in-law, Susie Marshall and husband John of Dallas;
grandchildren, Bill Kennedy, III and wife Tarrin of Dallas, Kathy Duncan and
husband Blair of Austin, Jennifer Kennedy of Dallas, Jessica Love and husband
Greg of Honolulu, Rachel Kennedy of Austin, Erika Kennedy and Carey Kennedy of
Santa Rosa, CA; and five great-grandchildren, Collin Duncan, Brayden Duncan,
Kennedy Duncan, Thomson Kennedy, and Jacob Love.

The family wishes to give special thanks to her loving caregivers at The Forum
in Dallas: Maria, Samantha, Felicia, Solame, Choima, and Sherrie and Community
Hospice of Dallas. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American
Cancer Society.

A celebration of her life with a visitation and reception will be held from 4:00
p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Saturday, March 1, at the Weed Corley-Fish Funeral Home at
3125 N. Lamar Blvd. in Austin. Family graveside services will be held Sunday
morning at 11:30 a.m. at Capital Memorial Park with the Rev. Bernie Sandberg,
University United Methodist Church, officiating.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Mary Rose McGuire-Jenkins

Oct. 28, 1934 ñ Feb. 26, 2008

Mary Rose McGuire-Jenkins of Kyle, Texas passed to Heaven in the loving care of
her husband and her dear children on February 26, 2008.

Mary Rose McGuire-Jenkins was born October 28, 1934 in Muncie, Indiana to Ira L.
and Velma Mae McGuire. Mary Rose graduated from Muncie High School in 1953. Mary
Rose followed her dreams to become an educator and decided to attend Ball State
University where she graduated with a Bachelors degree in Arts in 1957. Mary
Rose completed her degree with major in French and English.

Mary Rose met husband William R. Jenkins in 1953 on a blind date. They fell in
love and dated while Mary attended college. Mary and Bill married on August 9,
1958 in Muncie, Indiana. While Bill pursued his career in the Air Force, Mary
Rose was able to travel all over the world, sharing her love and passion in
teaching. Mary Rose was fortunate to teach children of all ages. She was known
as "Mrs. J" for twenty years of her teaching career.

Mary Rose is survived by her loving husband of fifty years, William ëBill'
Jenkins; sons, William ëJeff' Jenkins, Jonathan Jenkins and wife Susie Jenkins;
daughter, Jana Reyna and late husband Nando Reyna; granddaughters, Roxanna Garza
(Alex Garza), Jennifer, Lexi, and Danielle (Aaron); grandsons, Joshua, Ray, and
Zach; great-grandchildren, Bobbi-Lynn, Rocky, and Hailie.

The family will receive friends at the Angel Funeral Home from be from 11:00
a.m. Saturday, with funeral services at 2:00 p.m. Burial will follow in Onion
Creek Memorial Park.

Evelyn Belle (Carrington)

Jacobsen

Evelyn Jacobsen, born July 23, 1913, passed away on Feb. 26, 2008, at Seton
Hospital, within 24 hours of admittance. She had been rehabbing a back condition
since a fall in late December, but how many people would accept such a short,
uncomfortable timeframe at the end of their life in exchange for 94 1/2 years of
a happy, healthy, productive life.

Evelyn (or Grandma or Aunt Eva) was an amazing lady. An excellent landscape
artist, she also enjoyed painting flowers, animals and birds on wearing apparel
which she sold at art fairs, and to many of her fellow residents at the
Renaissance Retirement Residence in Austin, her home of the last seven years.
Many of her friends there still wear her creations.

Mother was the scourge of several bridge clubs, including the Renaissance,
taking many of their pennies and nickels over the last seven years . . . and she
reveled in telling her bridge stories. (Unlike the retelling of one's golf game,
these were really fun to hear).

She enjoyed traveling, and during her stay at the Renaissance, visited Los
Angeles, Las Vegas, Little Rock, and the Coushatta Indian Casino in Louisiana.
Previously in her 63 year marriage to Andy, they visited Switzerland, Canada,
and Denmark, the home of Andy's parents. They also traveled to many American
cities for office machine dealer conventions as Andy was Executive Director of
the Texas Office Machine Dealers' Association for a number of years.

Together, she and Andy successfully operated University Typewriter Exchange for
34 years on the Drag, and later at Nueces St, (across the street from Dirty
Martin's) before selling to Charles Gurkin in 1971. They also raised two boys,
Bill and Andy Jr., while living on Bowman Ave. in Tarrytown for some 52 years.

She was a longtime member of Tarrytown United Methodist Church, and prior to
that, University Methodist. Her Sunday school class in Heaven is now rejoicing
with her in their presence. She never failed to light up any gathering, to that
her remaining friends and family on Earth will attest.

While there may be no living Hutto resident of yesteryear to recall, Evelyn was
present when the nickname "Hutto Hippos" was selected and adopted, and is
certified by Hutto historians as the official source for the story of the
original naming (no, it wasn't a circus hippo found wandering in the community,
after all).

Evelyn is predeceased by Andy, her parents, Dr. H.D. Carrington of Pflugerville
and Hutto and mother, Daisy (Trusdal) of Round Rock, and her sister Margaret
(Margie). She is survived by sons Andy Jr. and William Duncan of Elgin,
daughters-in-law Kathryn and Diane, and grandchildren Meredith and husband Mark
Word of Austin, Payce Jacobsen of Dallas, Justin Jacobsen of Austin, and Jodi
and husband Dave Roybal of Austin. Also, several special nieces and nephews,
including Jean Oliver of Gilmer, as well as many great nieces and nephews.

Evelyn has chosen to be cremated, and her ashes will be spread near Andy's
gravesite at the Capital Memorial Park. Donations in her memory may be made to
Southwestern Medical School, Galveston, TX.

A memorial service will be held at 2:00 p.m. Sat., March 1, at First United
Methodist Church, Elgin, Rev. Jim McClain officiating. A map to the church can
be found at www.216west3rd.org/Map.htm

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Leo V. Howard

Leo V. Howard, 86, was born Aug. 12, 1921 in Ft. Cobb, Oklahoma to Myrtle
Proffitt and John L. Howard. He claimed the gift of eternal life Feb. 24, 2008.
His family moved to Texas in the early 1930's, settling in the Marble Falls
area, where he and his sister attended Double Horn School.

He married Kate Linebarger in Austin on Sept. 3, 1943. In Dec. 1953 with
children Judy and Bob, the Howards moved to San Angelo.

Leo worked as a test driver for Goodyear, retired in 1971 and he and Kate moved
to Leander. He worked in retail tire sales, retiring again to establish and
operate Leo's Custom Screens for over 20 years. Active in community affairs, he
was a member of the Leander City Council in the 1990's and a Charter member of
the Greater Leander Chamber of Commerce and on its Board of Directors. He pulled
the Chamber float in area parades, and local youth could count the Howards to
sponsor them in pageants, tournaments, etc.

His church memberships included Rosedale Baptist, Austin; Baptist Temple, San
Angelo; New Hope Baptist, Cedar Park; and Fellowship Baptist, Liberty Hill. At
Fellowship, he was ordained a Deacon in 2001, sang in the choir and helped with
AWANA Clubs.

Leo was preceded in death by his parents in 1958, sister Betty Jo Gibson and
wife Kate in 2002, brothers-in-law Wilson Carwile, Vernon Gibson, J. T., Emmitt,
niece Joyce Ann Linebarger and niece Sharon Janeck.

He is survived by daughter Judy Kirksey and husband J. P. of Manchaca and son
Robert L. (Bob) Howard and wife Susan of Waxahachie and five grandchildren: Amy
Kirksey Castor and husband Earl of Cypress (Lauren, Kathryn and Ethan); Thomas
(Tom) Smith and wife Heather of Waxahachie (Trevor, Tanner and Ty); Kayrin
Kirksey Jones and husband Milam of Buda (Preston and Logan); Paul Kirksey and
wife Brandie of Sunrise Beach (Jeffry, Jackson and Allison); and Matthew (Matt)
Howard of Waco.

He is further survived by his sister's children Susan and husband Dan Harvey of
Arlington, Donald Toungate of San Antonio, Ellen and husband Rusty Bolf of Cedar
Park, and stepdaughter Gay Gibson of Buda; 15 Linebarger nieces and nephews;
in-laws Angebelle Carwile of Lake Jackson, these Linebargers: Adrian and
Florence of Austin, Eva of Ft. Worth, Oleta of Georgetown, and Pat and Loyce of
Pflugerville.

Leo's family appreciated the support of the caring staffs of Park Place in
Georgetown, 2005 to 2007; Carestone of Austin; Southwood Express and WestOaks
Rehabs; and especially, South Austin Hospital. The devotion of the members and
Deacons of Fellowship and Manchaca Baptist Churches uplifted him. Special thanks
to Wes Griffin and John M. Dantin of Liberty Hill, Leo's wonderful friends.

Visitation is 9:00 a.m. - 10:45 a.m. Saturday, March 1 at Cook- Walden Davis
Funeral Home, 2900 Williams Dr., Georgetown, TX, preceding the 11:00 a.m.
service conducted by Rev. Michael Wright. Burial will follow at Bagdad Cemetery
in Leander.

In lieu of flowers, the family will appreciate memorials to Fellowship Baptist
Church, 3600 Ranch Road 1869, Liberty Hill 78642, or The American Cancer
Society. Leo's primary health concerns were the result of smoking many years. He
would encourage others to stop or never start.

Words of comfort may be shared with the family at www.mem.com

Lillie Mae Helge

Lillie Mae Helge, 78 years old, passed away peacefully in her home in the
morning of February 24, 2008. She was born in Georgetown, Texas, but spent most
of her life here in Austin, Texas with her husband of 61 years. Lillie married
Alvin Norman Helge on July 20, 1946 and had six children, 15 grandchildren, and
12 great-grandchildren by him. The surviving children and their spouses are:
Terry Lee Helge and wife Kathy, Lynette Marie Lewis and husband Glen, Alvin
Norman Helge Jr., Richard Allen Helge and wife Joan, Jon Paul Helge and wife
Sheila, and Pamela Sue Helge.

Lillie has always been known as a delightful, joyous person quick to tell you
multiple jokes to make you laugh. She has done a wonderful job of raising her
children and we all love her very much. She will certainly be missed. May peace
be with you.

A memorial service will be held at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, March 1, 2008 at the
Ridgetop Baptist Church 708 East 51st Street.

Judge Denton Delaplane

Gossett

Judge Denton Delaplane Gossett died Sunday, February 24, 2008, following a brief
illness. A memorial service will be held at University Christian Church, 2007
University Avenue, on Saturday, March 1, at 11:00 a.m.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests that memorials be made to the University
of Oklahoma Sooner Club, 180 W. Brooks, Suite 3575, Norman, OK. 73019, the OU
President's Associates, 339 W. Boyd St., Norman, OK 73019, or to University
Christian Church, 2007 University Avenue, Austin, TX 78705.

Send condolences online at www.havenbrookfuneralhome. com/Obituaries.htm

Katherine (Kathy) Donahoe Goldsmith

Katherine (Kathy) Donahoe Goldsmith, a longtime resident of Lakeway died
February 14, 2008. She was born September 10, 1915. Her sense of humor, wit &
love of life will be greatly missed. Her love of ballroom dancing can only be
matched by the love she gave to those around her.

Kathy was preceded in death by her husband, Henry Goldsmith; her two sisters,
Elizabeth Horton and Virginia Kelley; her niece Betty LaBerge.

Survivors include her nephew, Paul M. Deeley and wife Linda of Fort Worth; many
grand nieces and grand nephews and many many friends.

Memorial service will be held at 11:00 a.m., Saturday, March 1, 2008 at Harrell
Funeral Home, Austin, TX.

Lowell M. Goldman

Lowell M. Goldman, 81, of Austin, TX and previously Blauvelt, NY and Sarasota,
FL, passed away peacefully on Tuesday, February 26th, surrounded by his loving
family.

Born on December 27, 1926 in Bronx, NY, Lowell graduated from DeWitt Clinton
High School and New York University with a degree in journalism. He was a member
of the Pi Lambda Phi fraternity. He served his country in the US Navy in 1945
before the end of WWII on the destroyer escort USS Frost. Lowell married Harriet
Macy on October 28, 1951 and began their lives together in the Bronx, NY. Their
first son, Michael, arrived in 1952, second son, Gary, in 1954 and daughter
Rosanne in 1958. Lowell and Harriet moved into their first home in 1955 in
Blauvelt, NY. Lowell joined his family's business in the Bronx, AA Ambulance &
Oxygen/Camp Chair Supply Company, as Vice President. He was active in Rotary
International both New York and Florida. In 1964, Lowell became a Financial
Planner with Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company. He was very active in the
Jewish community in Rockland County and was a founder and second president of
Beth Am Temple in Pearl River, NY, was a co-founder of both B'nai Brith of
Rockland County and the local chapter of the Jewish War Veterans. In 1985,
Lowell and Harriet moved to Sarasota, FL and immediately built a network of
friends and Lowell launched his financial planning and real estate business.
Lowell and Harriet moved to Austin in 1998 to be near their children and
grandchildren. They were founding members of Temple Beth Shalom and Lowell
became a beloved "elder statesman" within the TBS community. Lowell was an avid
reader, creative writer, public speaker, played the piano, loved to swim,
enjoyed all aspects of nature.

Lowell is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Harriet; children, Michael
and Gary of Austin, Rosanne Andreas of Warwick, NY; grandchildren, Amber,
Britton, Audrey and Olivia, as well as his loving daughters-in-law Catrina and
Claudia of Austin and son-in-law Tom of Warwick and his sister Linda Grossman of
Bronxville, NY. His beloved older brother Ira predeceased him as did his parents
Leon and Beatrice.

But most of all, Lowell was a gentle, loving soul. He made friends wherever he
went. He took great pride in the life successes of his children and
grandchildren and his wife Harriet was the great love of his life, the ultimate
"team". No matter where he traveled during his lifetime he always encountered
old friends, fraternity brothers and family-and they will all miss his gentle
soul, warm smile and big blue eyes. But we have all become better people to have
known his love.

Funeral service will be held on Sunday, March 2nd at 5:30 p.m. at Temple Beth
Shalom in Austin. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to a charity of your
preference.

Mr. Daniel Galvan, Jr.

Aug. 23, 1941 ñ Feb. 28, 2008

My beloved uncle, Daniel Galvan, Jr., passed away at St. David's hospital. He
was very well known in Austin, Texas. He had worked at several bars on East 6th
Street in the late 80's and throughout the 90's. He will be greatly missed by
several family members and friends.

He was preceded in death by his father Daniel Galvan and his daughter, Mary
Elizabeth Galvan.

He leaves behind to cherish his memory, mother, Ramona A. Galvan, brothers,
Arturo and Jose Galvan, sister, Mary Galvan, niece, Christine Galvan Cantu
(Thomas), great-nieces, Samantha M. Cantu and Desiree N. Cantu, 1 great-nephew,
Thomas A. Cantu, Jr., these children meant the world to him, just as he did to
them.

Honored to serve as pallbearers are Thomas Cantu, Tom Ramos, Paul Alvarez,
Christopher Alvarez, David Alvarez, and Phillip Garcia.

Recitation of the rosary will be at 7:00 p.m. Friday at the Angel Funeral Home.
Funeral mass will be celebrated at 10:00 a.m. at Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic
Church. Burial will follow in Assumption Cemetery.

Helen Looney Downs

Helen Looney Downs, born January 10, 1918, in Ben Arnold, TX, passed away
February 26, 2008, at her home in Austin with family members by her side. She
was preceded in death by her husband, Dr. James T. Downs III, her big sister,
Frances Arrington, and brother, Ned Ike Looney and her parents, Helen and Oliver
Looney.

She is survived by her children, Elizabeth Young of Westcliffe, CO, Judy
Douglass of Orlando, FL, Mary Huggins of Round Rock, TX, Susan Burleson of
Burleson, TX and their respective spouses. She also has 10 grandchildren and 13
great-grandchildren.

Helen graduated from Yoe High School in Cameron, TX, and did her nurse's
training at UT Medical School in Galveston, receiving her RN in 1937. She was a
past president of the Women's Auxiliary to the Dallas County Medical Society as
well as a long time member of All Saint's Episcopal Church of Dallas. She was an
avid bridge player, accumulating many master points. She also enjoyed gardening
and sewing beautiful creations for her four growing girls. She was a loving
grandmother and an incredibly generous person. At the time of her death she had
many friends still in Dallas as well as at her recent home, The Renaissance
Retirement Home of Austin.

Her family wishes to thank Hospice Austin and Gentiva Healthcare for their
caring help in a difficult time.

There will be a visitation at Beck Funeral Home in Cedar Park on FM 1431, 5:00
p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Friday, February 29, and a graveside service at Restland
Memorial Park of Dallas on Greenville Ave at noon Saturday, March 1. After the
interment, there will be a short reception at the home of Duffy and Kathy
Kincheloe, 5531 Lobello Dr, Dallas 75229. In lieu of flowers, please give to the
charity of your choice, to Hospice Austin or to the American Heart Association.

The family wishes to thank the many people who loved and cared for our mother
and grandmother in her final journey home. She is now at peace with God.

LaVerne Harrell Clark

LaVerne Harrell Clark, born June 6, 1929to James Boyce Harrell and Bell Bunte
Harrell, died on February 24, 2008. She was a noted author and photographer,
with a record of many accomplishments and honors. She began her writing career
even as an undergraduate at Texas Woman's University, where she served as editor
of the Daily Lass-O and received her B.A. degree there in 1950. She soon went to
New York and filled various positions in the publishing world, such as writing
for the American Scandinavian Review, working in sales and advertising at the
Columbia University Press and in promotion-news for the Episcopal Diocese
Bulletin. Later she came back to Texas to work as a reporter and photographer on
the Fort Worth Press. While in New York she continued her studies at Columbia,
where she met L.D. Clark, another student and also a Texan who became an author.
They were married on September 15, 1951 in Smithville, Texas.

LaVerne's first book, They Sang for Horses, a study of Navajo and Apache horse
mythology, was published by the University of Arizona Press and won the
University of Chicago Folklore Prize for 1967. Except for brief intervals, this
book has been in print ever since, in time recognized by the Smithsonian
Institution as a classic in Native American studies. In 1962, LaVerne became the
founding director of the University of Arizona Poetry Center, and began
exploring in writing and photography the poetry of the Sixties and Seventies,
later publishing TheFace of Poetry and Focus 101. All along she continued to
examine the works of Mari Sandoz, on which she in time produced Mari Sandoz's
Native Nebraska. She kept up the writing of fiction too, leading to The Deadly
Swarm and Other Stories and a novel, Keepers of the Earth, which earned for her
the Best First Novel Award from Western Writers of America in 1996.

LaVerne always went on, too, with graduate studies in her different fields. She
received an M.A. in English and Anthropology in 1962 from the University of
Arizona, and an M.F.A. in Creative Writing there in 1992. Among her other
honors, she was a grantee of the American Philosophical Society, a member of
PEN, was chosen as a Distinguished Alumna of Texas Woman's University, and a few
years ago selected for inclusion in Who's Who in America. She was recently
elected to membership in the Texas Institute of Letters.

Although she spent numerous years in New York and Arizona, LaVerne always
retained and at length returned to her roots in Texas, coming from a family that
dates back seven generations to the original Austin colony.

Visitation: 5:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m. Friday, February 29 at the Marrs-Jones
Funeral Home in Smithville. Funeral: 10:00 a.m. Saturday, March 1 at the First
Presbyterian Church in Smithville.

In lieu of flowers, donations to the First Presbyterian Church, 300 Burleson
Street, Smithville TX 78957 will be greatly appreciated.

Christopher Keith Arnold

"Chris"

Passed away on Monday, February 25, 2008. Celebration will be held on Saturday,
March 1, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. Greater Mt. Zion Baptist Church. Visitation 9:00 a.m.
- 9:00 p.m. King Tears Mortuary.

Chris is survived by his wife, Emily; son, Rueben; step-daughters, Leidy and
Karen; father, Marvan Arnold, Sr.; brothers, Marvan Arnold, Jr., George Arnold
(Tamika); sisters, Debora Mack (Roy), Yu Vonda Galloway (James), and Veronica
Arnold; family and friends.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

Two DFW airport hotels worth missing a flight

BYLINE: Helen Anders AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. K01

LENGTH: 877 words


GRAPEVINE - In these days of atrocious weather, overbooked planes and canceled
flights, there's a good chance you'll eventually get stuck overnight at an
airport.

Pray that it's Dallas-Fort Worth International, where you have two really nice
hotels to spend the night - assuming you can stake one out before everybody else
does.

A lot of airport hotels are excruciatingly ordinary, but both the Grand Hyatt
DFW and the recently renovated Hyatt Regency DFW are upscale hotels with pools,
fitness centers, Wi-Fi and other amenities. The Grand is a little grander and
more expensive, but they're both good hotels - to the point where I'd book them
if I needed a hotel halfway between Dallas and Fort Worth, even if I were
driving.

Both hotels are inside the airport property - the Grand is inside Terminal D
proper; the Regency stands next to Terminal C - and they're both Hyatts, though
managed by separate companies. And, yes, that causes confusion. While I was
touring the Grand Hyatt, I ran into a frantic family trying hard to find a
convention that was actually taking place at the Hyatt Regency.

Both hotels overlook the main runways of DFW; the Grand is closer, but you can
see takeoffs from both. Both hotels are also super-soundproofed. I can hear
louder airplane noise at my home in South Austin than I can here, only about a
football field away from roaring aircraft.

Both hotels also have arrival-departure boards where you can check your flight.

The 13-story Regency, with 811 guest rooms and 92,000 square feet of meeting and
ballroom space, is the bigger hotel and was filled with convening Christian
preteens during my stay. A lot of them wound up in the heated zero-edge outdoor
pool. There's also a fitness center; I didn't see any of the kids working out.

Recently renovated in contemporary, warm chocolate brown with gold and red
accents, our room had a flat-screen TV, free Wi-Fi, a coffee maker and large
balcony overlooking one of the airport's two control towers.

Eating is expensive, whether in your room or in the restaurants. Mr. G's is a
popular steak house in the Regency. Some travelers plan their layovers around a
steak there. It's cozy and clubby; you'll forget you're in an airport.

The less expensive restaurant, Jacob's Spring Grille, is still expensive. We're
talking $27 chicken breast. But the restaurant and its bar, Aces, are
attractive, and the food's good.

At both the Regency and the Grand, self-parking is free, even though signs on
some of the garages say it's $14. As you exit the main road through the airport,
don't choose the toll tag exit or you'll be charged anyway. Get an exit ticket
and the hotel will validate it. (If you mess this up, like I did, you can fill
out a form and the hotel will reimburse you for your toll.)

To stay at the Grand Hyatt, take the airport's exit to Terminal D. You'll see
the Grand Hyatt right next to where you drop people off for international
flights. Pull in and valet park.

Go up the escalator to the right, and you're in the Grand Hyatt. Go left and
you're in the security line to catch a plane.

The Grand, built in 2005, has a lobby that hums with business activity. A sleek
24-hour coffee bar sits next to the cocktail bar, and nearby is the contemporary
Grand Met restaurant, which instead of focusing on one cuisine has offerings
from various parts of the world. It's expensive (entrées are $30 to $52), but it
makes global business travelers feel at home. For lone diners, there are little
tables for one.

The rooms are gently contemporary, in sage green with gold accents. There's a
flat-screen TV and a nice robe. Wireless is $9.95 a day.

The hotel has 298 rooms, including an eighth-floor presidential suite (the
14-jet shower is party-sized) that earlier this year housed actor Danny DeVito
when he wound up stuck at the airport overnight.

The top ninth floor is an oasis that a stranded traveler couldn't help but love:
There's a heated outdoor pool overlooking the runways, a sizable fitness room
and a spa that specializes in stress-relieving treatments.

The spa is currently enlarging its lockers so that they can accommodate
suitcases. Travelers can buy day passes if they just want to hang out up there.

Here's something highly unusual: DFW International Airport lets Grand Hyatt
guests come and go through Terminal D even if they don't have boarding passes.
All you have to do is provide the hotel with your photo ID. (Obviously you can't
do it if you're on the no-fly list.)

Why would you want to roam Terminal D? Because inside the airport are good
restaurants such as Cool River Cafe and Reata Grill , along with good shopping
opportunities such as Brooks Brothers and Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory.
There's a wine bar and an Irish pub. It's a little city inside Terminal D. Check
it out.

handers@statesman.com; 912-2590

If you stay at the airport
 Hyatt Regency DFW, International Parkway  inside Dallas-Fort Worth
International Airport in Grapevine, (972) 453-1234, www.hyattregencydfw.com.
Rates start at $109.  Call for packages that let you leave your car at the
hotel while you're flying.
 Grand Hyatt DFW, 2337 International Parkway South inside the airport,
Grapevine, (972) 973-1234, www.grandhyattdfw.com. Rates start at $199.
Headline goes here please
 Box No Indent



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Imam sees ways for devout Muslims to embrace life in U.S.

BYLINE: Eileen E. Flynn American-Statesman staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1304 words


On a sunbaked Friday afternoon in late August, the parking lot at the North
Austin Muslim Community Center is packed for the weekly prayer service.

Imam Islam Mossaad , a slender man with a trim beard and steady, dark eyes,
works his way through a crowd of men, greeting them with "salaam aleikum"
("peace be upon you") . Most are familiar faces, family friends who have watched
Mossaad grow up in Austin over the past three decades.

Now the 32-year-old is leading the city's largest mosque, a move that surprised
his family, which had high hopes for his engineering career. But this is where
Mossaad feels he belongs.

And many in the community are grateful to have a leader who blends a regular-guy
persona - Mossaad is an avid Longhorns fan - with devotion to Islamic learning.

This week, as Muslims begin the observance of Ramadan, a holy month that
involves fasting, prayer and acts of charity, Mossaad is hoping to help old and
new friends connect more deeply with their faith and share it with the world
outside the mosque on North Lamar Boulevard .

"The purpose of Ramadan is not to be caged up in one's house or even caged up in
the mosque," he tells the congregation inside the cool prayer hall.

It's hard for some to believe that this is the restless boy who vexed his Sunday
school teacher years ago. Saleem Jehangir , who taught Muslim youths on weekends
at the Nueces Street mosque , recalls with a laugh, "I was trying to teach him
Arabic, and I thought, 'Will these guys ever learn?'"

In those days, the Muslim community was much smaller, had only one mosque and
relied on graduate students to give the Friday sermon.

Mossaad was getting a double dose. His mother, Ferial Mossaad , a devout woman
with a strong personality, infused her children with religious lessons daily.

"For me, my school was my mother," Mossaad said. She now teaches Islamic studies
at the Renaissance Academy .

'He loves his country'

Though Mossaad's Egyptian parents stressed the importance of Islamic values and
education, they steered their children toward careers in engineering and
medicine. Ferial Mossaad had earned a degree in business administration and
management in Cairo and put her graduate degree plans on hold to raise her
children.

While her husband, Karam , pursued his Ph.D. at the University of Texas, the
family lived in married student housing on Lake Austin Boulevard. They moved to
Pflugerville when Islam was a teenager.

Islam Mossaad earned a degree in chemical engineering at UT and worked in Austin
and Dallas, but he most enjoyed spending time at the mosque on Manor Road, where
he translated for visiting scholars and volunteered with youth groups.

"He used to play basketball with (the kids) just like one of them, and then
they'd all sit together and talk," said Samer El-Haj-Mahmoud , a friend of
Mossaad's who leads the local chapter of the Muslim American Society.

Mossaad returned to school for a graduate degree, but the longing to devote his
life to his faith didn't recede. He told his parents he was dropping out.

His mother said she couldn't accept the news at first. She wanted her children
to follow their father's academic pursuits, and she worried that her son would
have a harder time finding a wife as an imam.

"He was very smart and very talented," she said wistfully. "He could be a
lawyer; he could be a doctor. He was an engineer."

She traces his shift to Sept. 11. After the country was shaken by terrorism and
suddenly suspicious of Muslims, she said, he became worried that the foreign
Islamic scholars leading U.S. mosques didn't understand what it meant to be
Muslim in America.

He said the event "shaped a will within me to try to make some positive impact
in American society."

"He loves his country very much," Ferial Mossaad said. "And he loves the people
very much. And he feels they are really wanting to know about Islam " not from
the media, not from any other sources, but the true Islam."

Connecting with youth

One reason Islam Mossaad appreciates living in the United States is that here,
Muslims are thrown together from a variety of cultures. As a result, he says,
they are forced to re-examine their beliefs and develop a "more nuanced
understanding" of Islam.

Though he did not have formal training to become an imam - imams have
traditionally pursued education overseas - El-Haj-Mahmoud said that Mossaad's
"ability to capture the hearts and the minds of his audience and especially
connect with the youth" made up for that.

Hira Khan , a UT senior, said young Muslims are grappling with a host of issues
as they strive to follow their faith while living in a secular world. Recently,
she said, a friend was talking about the challenge of getting to know guys
without dating, which many Muslims see as inappropriate.

"My friends are like, 'Go to Sheik Islam. He's totally cool about this. He'll
work everything out for you,'" Khan said.

Mossaad, who is not married, knows that struggle firsthand. And his natural
ability to connect with young people is an enormous asset to the Muslim
community, said Jehangir, a native of Pakistan.

Kids, he said, need to see more American-born-and-raised leaders in the mosque.

"They see somebody like them," he said. "It's very strange they don't see their
own parents like them. But they'll see themselves in guys like Islam."

'They're your family'

Mossaad's first job as an imam was at the Islamic Center of Little Rock in
Arkansas, where he stayed for three years, building bridges with a former Nation
of Islam congregation and taking on community problems such as poverty and
crime. He said there were 800 Muslims, most of them African American, in the
state's prisons.

Entering the world of an imam in which he often wears traditional garb, Mossaad
found his identity as an American Muslim challenged. Non-Muslims, he said, often
assumed he was from overseas and asked why he didn't have an accent.

But his cross-cultural background helped breach barriers, too, such as the time
in Little Rock when a cashier seemed oblivious to his Muslim robe but exclaimed
when he paid with a personalized UT Longhorns credit card.

"You can't show that card around here!" she cried. "This is Razorback country."

Mossaad returned to Austin in 2006 , taking a job at Renaissance Academy
teaching math and science and leading Friday prayers at the school. Earlier this
year, when mosque leader Sheik Mohamed-Umer Esmail left, the executive committee
asked Mossaad to lead.

Mossaad said he often acts as a mediator between parents and children, urging
the older, often immigrant, generation to give kids more freedom while reminding
children of the importance of respecting their parents.

He has encouraged the congregation to reach out to non-Muslims through
charitable works and interfaith events.

Sometimes it's strange to be preaching to the elders who remember him as a
little boy, but he says he feels accepted.

"I thought it was easier to go a place where they don't know you," he said, "but
here, there's kind of a warm experience because they're your family."

eflynn@statesman.com; 445-3812

Facts on Ramadan
 What: Ramadan is the holy month in which Muslims believe God revealed the
Quran to the Prophet Muhammad.
 When: Because Muslims use a lunar calendar, the date of the observance changes
 every year and begins either when a local community sees the new crescent moon
 or when there has been a global moon sighting.
 Tradition: Muslims fast from food and water during daylight hours, avoid
gossip, donate money to the poor and draw closer to God through prayer. It's
also a festive time for Muslims who gather to break the fast each sundown,
often with non-Muslims.
 Local events: The North Austin Muslim Community Center will hold iftars , or
fast-breaking meals, every night during Ramadan. Non-Muslims are welcome. For
more information, go to namcc.org or call 491-7148 .



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
