
                               1 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Rep. Smith battling on climate science

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 901 words


Injecting his U.S. House committee into an ongoing dispute involving ExxonMobil
and global warming, U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, will hold a hearing
Wednesday affirming his office's right to subpoena investigators probing the oil
and gas behemoth.

The hearing is the latest example of Smith using his perch as chairman of the
U.S. House Committee on Science, Space and Technology to cast doubt on widely
held climate science.

While the hearings might be standard political fodder - the party in power often
uses congressional hearings to grandstand under the cover of government
oversight - Smith's criticism of climate science is notable because he leads a
committee focused on science.

Smith, who represents parts of downtown Austin, Old West Austin, South Austin
and Hays County, gets more money from oil and gas than any other industry.
Chosen as the science committee's chairman by the Republican leadership, Smith
has presided over at least a half-dozen hearings attacking climate science or
the Environmental Protection Agency since the beginning of the year.

In spring 2015, in an effort to defund climate research, his committee voted to
cut NASA's budget for Earth science. (In an end-of-year budget deal, much of the
money was restored.)

Most scientists say emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases help
trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere, leading to a warming planet.

Smith's hearings are dominated by witnesses who typically downplay - or outright
deny - the contribution of fossil-fuel burning to climate change.

A hearing in February, for example, on a newly minted international climate
change deal (the hearing was titled "Paris Climate Promise: A Bad Deal for
America") had four witnesses - an official from the business-friendly U.S.
Chamber of Commerce; a University of Alabama-Huntsville atmospheric scientist
who is a noted naysayer of scientific consensus on climate change; a researcher
with the conservative Heritage Foundation; and the president of an environmental
group, the World Resources Institute.

At that hearing, Smith said the pledge by President Barack Obama to cut U.S.
greenhouse gas emissions is part of the White House's "extreme climate agenda."

"The president's climate pledge is a bad deal for the American economy, the
American people and would produce no substantive environmental benefits," Smith
said.

Last year, he accused federal scientists of altering data to get "politically
correct results" on global warming.

A committee spokeswoman said this week he wasn't available for an interview. But
Smith told the American-Statesman earlier this year: "I'm not a denier; I'm a
skeptic."

He said that climate change is caused by natural cycles, solar activity and
human industry. But, he said, "We don't know how much from each."

He said that "alarmists make exaggerations" on climate change.

Asked how he could describe them as exaggerations given his claim that it
remains an open question how much humans are to blame for a changing climate, he
said the evidence scientists provide is "wishy-washy."

Smith became chairman of the committee in 2013. He could serve as long as six
years according to House rules.

Wednesday hearing

The hearing on Wednesday is the latest step in a saga involving Houston-based
ExxonMobil. Environmental activists charge the company with acting as Big
Tobacco once did, suppressing evidence of a danger to human health - in this
case, that the burning of fossil fuels contributed to global climate change.

Attorneys general from at least 15 states or territories - including New York,
Massachusetts and the U.S. Virgin Islands - have said they would investigate
whether ExxonMobil lied to investors and the public about the threat of climate
change.

Texas officials - and Smith in Washington - have come to ExxonMobil's aid,
arguing the subpoenas by the attorneys general are unlawful.

In a May court filing in Tarrant County, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton
argued that an investigation by the Virgin Islands attorney general into what
ExxonMobil knew about climate change amounted to little more than a "fishing
expedition."

The corporation argued in April, in its own filing in Tarrant County - which is
where ExxonMobil says relevant records are kept - that it shouldn't have to
comply with the subpoena. The company said the investigation is an "improper and
politically motivated investigation" and "strikes at protected speech at the
core of the First Amendment."

It also said that it has publicly recognized the risk of climate change for at
least a decade.

The three parties stepped back from litigation in June after a judge ordered
them to talk.

Subpoenas

Smith has issued his own subpoenas to the attorneys general, arguing that the
investigations of ExxonMobil could have a chilling effect on scientific
research. (Smith's committee has oversight over nonmilitary, nonmedical
federally funded research.)

This summer the attorneys general investigating ExxonMobil swung back, telling
Smith that his subpoenas amounted to interference with a state investigation.

"If enforced, the subpoena will have the obvious consequence of interfering with
the (attorney general's) investigation into whether ExxonMobil made false or
misleading statements in violation of New York's business, consumer, and
securities fraud laws," Eric Schneiderman, attorney general of New York, wrote
to Smith in July.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 1, 2016 Friday
                                 State Edition

Paxton withdraws suit against ExxonMobil critic

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 423 words


Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton announced Thursday that he was withdrawing a
lawsuit against his Virgin Islands counterpart after that attorney general
suspended an investigation involving ExxonMobil and climate change.

The action follows a decision by Virgin Islands Attorney General Claude Walker
on Wednesday to withdraw a far-reaching subpoena for Exxon records that Paxton
had argued was unconstitutional.

Walker said his withdrawal was a procedural move, as a parallel case involving
Massachusetts moves through federal court - fighting a big case far from his own
jurisdiction was shaping up as a distraction.

Paxton suggested Walker's decision was an acknowledgment of overreach.

"The so-called â  investigation' by Walker was a constitutionally improper
attempt to suppress the freedom of speech," Paxton said in a statement on
Thursday.

In a May court filing in Tarrant County, Paxton argued that an investigation by
Walker into what ExxonMobil knew about climate change amounted to little more
than a "fishing expedition."

Attorneys general from at least 15 states or territories - including New York,
Massachusetts and the Virgin Islands - have said they would investigate whether
ExxonMobil lied to investors and the public about the threat of climate change.

The Virgin Islands is one of the few to have taken real action, however; its
subpoena cited the territory's anti-racketeering laws as it went after Exxon.

The corporation argued in April, in its own filing in Tarrant County - which is
where ExxonMobil says relevant records are kept - that it should not have to
comply with the subpoena. The company said the investigation is an "improper and
politically motivated investigation" and "strikes at protected speech at the
core of the First Amendment."

It also said that it has publicly recognized the risk of climate change for at
least a decade.

In an April letter to an ExxonMobil lawyer, Walker wrote that the company might
have committed securities fraud and that the Virgin Islands employee retirement
system has owned tens of thousands of shares of ExxonMobil since at least 2010
"and would have received misrepresentations made to investors."

The joint withdrawals - Exxon also withdrew a suit against the Virgin Islands as
part of an agreement between the parties - came after a federal judge had
ordered the sides to talk.

Calling climate change "an issue of survival for the Virgin Islands," Walker
said this week that the territory will remain engaged in the issue.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 10, 2016 Thursday
                                 State Edition

State ready to ease up on suing White House

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 782 words


After making a national name by repeatedly suing to block Obama administration
policies, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton arrived at work Wednesday to an
unfamiliar reality - a Republican White House on the horizon.

The arrival of President-elect Donald Trump is expected to be a game changer,
producing federal policies more in line with the low-regulation environment
favored by Texas Republican leaders. State officials are eager to embrace the
shift.

"For the first time since 2008, we won't have a White House that we have to
constantly sue to protect the rights of Texans," said Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who
was chairman of the Trump campaign in Texas.

Texas Republicans expect Trump, who takes office in January, to follow through
on promises to rescind many of the environmental policies, transgender
initiatives and other regulations set in place by Obama administration agencies,
rendering many of the state's lawsuits moot.

Until then, however, there are about 16 lawsuits that Texas officials have filed
or joined that are still in the federal court pipeline, and all will continue to
be pursued until resolved, Paxton's office said Wednesday.

"Some cases challenge statutes only Congress can change, some challenge agency
rules that go through notice-and-comment rule making, and some challenge
informal agency guidance," Paxton spokesman Marc Rylander said. "We will
continue to pursue all of these cases and look forward to working with a new
administration to seek to conform its actions to the Constitution."

Texas also should be prepared to resume its opposition role if new regulations
are announced in President Barack Obama's final two months in office, said
Robert Henneke, general counsel and litigation director for the Texas Public
Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank based in Austin.

"That may require, in the short term, an even greater response from Texas -
being the dam against the floods, so to speak," Henneke said.

In addition, some of the regulations Trump opposes will take months to undo,
particularly final environmental rules that would require a new notice and
comment period before changes can be implemented, said Thomas McGarity, a
University of Texas law professor.

"It's not an especially easy thing to do, but my guess is this is high enough on
their list of priorities that they would do it," McGarity said.

Since Obama took office in 2009, Texas has filed or joined almost 50 lawsuits
aimed at curtailing federal authority or uprooting U.S. policies, beginning when
Gov. Greg Abbott was attorney general and continuing under Paxton's leadership
when he replaced Abbott almost two years ago.

Texas won some cases, including a challenge to an Obama executive order that
would have protected up to 5 million undocumented immigrants from deportation -
a victory cemented last summer by the U.S. Supreme Court - and a 2012 appeals
court decision that reversed the Environmental Protection Agency's rejection of
the state's air pollution plan.

There also were losses along the way, including attempts to halt the flow of
Syrian refugees into Texas, undermine EPA climate-change rules in 2012 and have
the Affordable Care Act, Obama's signature health care law, declared
unconstitutional.

In one pending case, Texas successfully sued to block an administration
directive that public schools let transgender students use the bathroom and
locker room that conforms with their gender identity. The federal government has
appealed.

Many other pending lawsuits challenge EPA rules, including efforts to regulate
ground-level ozone, methane emissions from oil facilities and air pollution from
industrial plants.

The most prominent challenge is to Obama's Clean Power Plan, which sought to cut
carbon emissions from power plants to combat climate change. The U.S. Supreme
Court blocked the plan from being implemented while an appeals court considers
its future.

Under the Trump administration, the EPA would have the option of asking the
appeals court to voluntarily remand the case so the agency could reconsider the
rule, McGarity said. "In other words, say that maybe Texas has it right after
all," he said.

Lest Republicans get too complacent about their future under Trump, however, the
American Civil Liberties Union has promised a barrage of lawsuits if Trump
follows through on proposals that include deporting undocumented immigrants,
reauthorizing waterboarding and changing libel laws.

"If you do not reverse course and instead endeavor to make these campaign
promises a reality, you will have to contend with the full firepower of the ACLU
at every step," ACLU executive director Anthony Romero said.

Contact Chuck Lindell at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 11, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Texas officials laud high court's ruling on EPA's power plant rules

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 705 words


Top Texas officials, buoyed by a victory at the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday
that dealt a setback to the Obama administration's signature environmental
policy, are now taking a victory lap.

At the behest of Texas and other states, chambers of commerce and some mining
unions, the Supreme Court decided to hit the pause button on the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's Clean Power Plan, which aims to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from the nation's power plants. Scientists link
greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide, to global warming. The high
court issued a stay on the EPA plan while lower courts hear lawsuits from states
that want to kill it.

The Supreme Court's decision "put a stop to the EPA's attempt to impose its new
power rules into the lives of Americans coast to coast," Texas Attorney General
Ken Paxton told reporters Wednesday. "The EPA had placed the livelihoods of far
too many people on the line when it attempted to impose these misguided rules on
the country, and thanks to the court's action, we can all rest a little more
securely today."

He continued: "A major change like the power rule should not and cannot be left
in the hands of unelected bureaucrats who have demonstrated more concern about
placating the green lobby than keeping Americans working. This move was a
blatant attempt to sidestep the legislative process and force through the will
of one man - President (Barack) Obama - who tried to redraw the powers of the
EPA in unprecedented ways."

The Clean Power Plan, should it go forward, is likely to lead to the shuttering
of some coal plants, prompting Republican policymakers in Texas and elsewhere to
accuse the Obama administration of waging a "war on coal."

Leaders in Texas, West Virginia and other states have said the rules will harm
their states' economy and constitutes a power grab.

Environmentalists have said Texas officials should look for ways to tamp down
carbon emissions and invest in cleaner energy sources instead of fighting the
regulation.

Challenges by Texas officials to federal environmental rules have had a mixed
record, and the Obama plan could still rule the day since Tuesday's decision
only puts the Clean Power Plan on hold. But court-watchers say the 5-4 decision
to issue a stay suggests the Supreme Court would be unsympathetic to the EPA
should the rule itself come before the high court.

"This decision is a huge loss for our kids' future and for all Americans who
care about the health of our planet, and a huge win for the polluters and the
deniers," said Sara E. Smith, an attorney at Environment Texas. "That said, I am
confident that this is only a temporary setback - ultimately the science, the
majority will, and bold climate action will win the day."

At the Williamson County Reagan Dinner on Tuesday, Gov. Greg Abbott cheered the
decision.

"A Texan should care about this decision because, even if they are for
environmental controls like that imposed by the EPA, America is a better place
if the Constitution is followed," he said. "Clearly the EPA and the Obama
administration violated the Constitution."

David Porter, chairman of the Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates oil and
gas operations, said Obama was trying "to promote his own liberal agenda that
combats fossil fuels and favors unreliable alternative energy sources. I hope
the court continues to realize that this tyrannical intrusion into the free
market is costly, illogical and uncalled for."

The White House, for its part, saw things differently.

"The Clean Power Plan is based on a strong legal and technical foundation, gives
states the time and flexibility they need to develop tailored, cost-effective
plans to reduce their emissions, and will deliver better air quality, improved
public health, clean energy investment and jobs across the country, and major
progress in our efforts to confront the risks posed by climate change," White
House press secretary Josh Earnest said. "We remain confident that we will
prevail on the merits."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Clean Power Plan
  Under the EPA's
  Clean Power Plan, Texas utilities would have to reduce their carbon emissions

  from 240,000 tons in 2012 to 190,000 tons
  a year by 2030.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 24, 2016 Friday
                                 State Edition

Bees in hands and bonnet, apiarist fighting for change

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 656 words


Only a few years ago, Tara Chapman was wrapping up a decade of
sometimes-dangerous intelligence and policy work in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Now 34, she's left behind the Kevlar vest for a beekeeping suit, tending to a
few dozen hives around Austin.

"I've traded in one suit of protective gear for another," said the honey
meister, who supplies gorgeous, delectable bits of raw honeycomb to such local
restaurants as Trace.

She has also become something of an activist: Chapman is a member of a group of
farmers, environmentalists and researchers pressing the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency to regulate a class of pesticides called neonicotinoids that
they say threatens the pollinator population.

Austin's Parks and Recreation Department recently announced it would cease using
on its golf courses neonicotinoids - which can disrupt the central nervous
system of insects, leaving them paralyzed, and are blamed by some scientists for
an ongoing collapse of the bee population.

Roughly a third of our food chain is the result of pollination that happened in
a farmer's field, according to the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.

A 2015 report found that between 2008 and 2013 bee abundance declined across
nearly a quarter of the nation. The report's authors attributed the decline to
conversion of natural habitats to row crops as well as to pesticide use, climate
change and disease.

Austin has about 180 species of bees, according to Shalene Jha, a University of
Texas biologist who studies bees; they can be distinguished, in part, by the
location of their hair, which catches pollen. Some have hair on their eyes, some
on their knees and others on their bellies.

Industry scientists say the pesticides can increase overall crop yields.

But that's short-term thinking, Jha said at a press event organized Thursday by
Environment Texas.

"We're altering our agricultural system, reducing diversity and pulverizing the
soil," she said.

Chapman had grown up in a small town near Lubbock, the daughter of blue-collar
parents - her stepfather is a mechanic for Greyhound; her mother does odd jobs,
most recently working at a funeral home - before heading to Duke University.

She was the first in her family to graduate from college and at the school
career fair sneaked her résumé into a stack at the CIA table; she worked as a
CIA operative for five years, stationed chiefly in Pakistan - "We were working
in areas that weren't very safe, doing things those countries wouldn't want us
to do," she said - before working for a congressional commission investigating
wartime contracts and then for the Special Inspector General on Afghanistan
Reconstruction.

Longing for Texas, if not Lubbock, she began splitting time between Kabul and
Austin. On a whim, she took a beekeeping class about four years ago; hooked, she
and a friend started out with a pair of hives - she would call her business,
which includes beekeeping education, Two Hives Honey - but decided she needed
more experience.

She wrote to a Navasota beekeeping business to see about a job. Beekeeping is
hard work, including the lifting of 50- to 90-pound cases of honeycomb - and
determined to impress, she included in an introductory email how much weight she
could dead-lift.

She was hired, working six-day weeks with 12-hour days in the hot Texas sun in a
sweltering beekeeping suit.

Like other beekeepers, she has neat factoids about bees at the ready: The
average worker bee lives 42 days and produces one-twelfth of a teaspoon of honey
in its lifetime; bees travel up to five miles to forage.

She said the only thing that ties her two careers together might be how uncommon
it is for a woman to hold the jobs she's had.

"To see a youngish female professional beekeeper is really rare," she said.

The other common thread is how unusual the jobs themselves are. "My mom is
wondering when I'm going to take a normal job," she said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 3, 2016 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Environmental groups to protest at parks meeting

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 756 words


Texas Parks and Wildlife officials have tightened security ahead of a meeting
Thursday over concerns about threats involving one of its commissioners, who
owns a pipeline company targeted by protesters over two projects.

Kelcy Warren, appointed to the board a year ago by Gov. Greg Abbott, is the CEO
of Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners, which is building the Trans-Pecos
pipeline in the Big Bend region and the Dakota Access pipeline in the Great
Plains.

Both oil and gas projects have led to bitter protests over issues involving
climate change, water quality, and - in the Dakotas - tribal power. Standoffs in
the Dakotas have been especially charged, with incidents involving security
personnel and protesters drawing national attention.

Now some of that glare is shining on the Texas Parks and Wildlife Commission,
whose members routinely rank among the highest political campaign donors to
state Republicans - Warren himself has given more than $700,000 since 2013 to
Texans for Greg Abbott.

As environmental groups prepared to convene at the commission's meeting Thursday
to protest Warren's company's work, a beefed-up security presence at the agency
was noticeable: At a workshop Wednesday, where issues ranged from shad
collection to oyster lease rules, authorities checked visitors with security
wands and Texas game wardens ringed the hearing room.

Texas Parks and Wildlife Department spokesman Josh Havens said, "Threats have
been made but I cannot confirm whether or not those threats were received
directly by the department or another entity."

The Trans-Pecos pipeline, a nearly 150-mile natural gas pipeline through the Big
Bend region, has won approval from federal authorities - but still faces
opposition from residents of Fort Davis, Alpine and Marfa, among other places,
who worry that its construction will destroy the landscape.

Warren, who also runs a music studio and label in Austin, has already alienated
some Texas musicians with his business dealings.

But his political connections are nonpareil: Rick Perry, Abbott's predecessor,
sits on the Energy Transfer Partners board.

Protests over the Dakota Access pipeline project, a 1,172-mile pipeline designed
to carry as many as 570,000 barrels of oil a day from the Dakotas through Iowa
and Illinois, where it would hook up with a pipeline to Texas, have won more
attention. In North Dakota, the pipeline is routed to cross beneath the Missouri
River, not far from the Standing Rock Sioux reservation. Tribal leaders say the
project could jeopardize the reservation's water supply.

In September, the Obama administration ordered a shutdown of pipeline work
beneath the river.

On Thursday, activists associated from groups ranging from Earth Guardians of El
Paso to the Society of Native Nations are expected to appear at the Parks and
Wildlife meeting, according to Dave Cortez, a Sierra Club organizer.

In many ways, the planned protests appear to be an opportunity to confront
Warren directly, even if it's at a meeting several states away from the pipeline
sites.

At Wednesday's workshop, one protester, Austinite Charlie Pierce, was on hand
waving and pointing a finger at Warren, and sometimes blowing through a bone
that hung around his neck like a pendant.

Pierce was led out of the room a couple of times and asked not disrupt the
proceedings.

"I was giving him the stink eye," said Pierce, who said the security officials
were cordial. "I was blowing at him as a way to attack him, to drive the spirit
at him."

In a September open letter, Warren called the criticism of the Dakotas project
"unfounded."

"I am confident that as long as the government ultimately decides the fate of
the project based on science and engineering, the Dakota Access pipeline will
become operational bringing a safer means of transportation to a much needed
supply of oil to communities across the country," he wrote.

Havens said the "Texas Parks and Wildlife Department respects the rights of
individuals to express their opinions and encourages those who wish to
demonstrate to do so peacefully and safely."

The commission on Thursday could take up the matter of a pipeline easement in a
Texas wildlife management area.

Some activists have called for Warren to recuse himself, pointing out possible
associations between his company and the one asking for the easement.

Warren, through a spokesman, said "no conflict exists here."

"Commissioner Warren will fully participate as an active member of the
commission this week," Havens said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Voice of Texas business moves on after 19 years

BYLINE: Tim Eaton American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 856 words


As a former Texas House member and as head of the state's most prominent
business lobby for nearly 19 years, the Texas Association of Business' outgoing
CEO Bill Hammond has been the mouthpiece for industry and has shepherded
legislation through the system to make Texas attractive to businesses.

But despite his many legislative victories, one problem has remained unsolved as
he prepares to leave the business lobby in the coming months.

Working with five different governors - Bill Clements, Mark White, George W.
Bush, Rick Perry and Greg Abbott - Hammond has been there as lawmakers fought to
keep taxes low, worked to make sure regulation was not overly burdensome and
ensured that businesses wouldn't have to stumble over other hurdles that might
have hindered growth.

"There has been a lot of change," Hammond told the American-Statesman in an
interview after he announced he would be stepping down as head of the business
lobby at year's end to work as an independent contract lobbyist.

Hammond can easily rattle off a list of career successes. He talks about:
reforming the workers' comp system; reducing the franchise tax; easing the
process for industries to get environmental permits; and fending off plenty of
harmful proposals from the far right and left of the political spectrum. All
those efforts and more have made Texas one of the most business-friendly states
in the union, he said.

But when he leaves his post, he will leave one of issues most important to him
unresolved.

"Education has been a roller-coaster," he said.

Hammond said he was happy to see a new A-though-F rating system get approved
last session, but still, too many students are not emerging from school with the
level of education that Texas' employers' need, he said. And there is still
quite a long way to go, he said.

For too long, Texas has relied on the flow of educated people moving here from
locales to fill so many technology jobs and other skilled positions. The
practice isn't sustainable, he said, and sooner or later, Texas lawmakers will
need to make sure the state can produce the talent necessary to fill the highly
paid job openings across the state.

And with the explosion in the technology sector and an increased need for health
care-related professionals, the importance of improving the state's education
system will only grow more dire in the ever-growing state, Hammond said.

"Boomers need care," he said. "We have a lot of little ones, and we have a lot
of old ones."

Texas legislators must stop accepting the "we are doing the best we can" line
and hold school districts accountable, Hammond said.

"To me, personally and professionally, will children born in poverty die in
poverty?" he said.

Much of Hammond's success comes from his advocacy for big and small businesses.
But sometimes it also came from playing defense. Often his defensive postures
put him at odds with conservative lawmakers and without much public support from
others in the Legislature.

"We have tried to put good policy ahead of politics," Hammond said.

Jack Gullahorn, former president of the Professional Advocacy Association of
Texas, a lobbyist trade organization, has known Hammond for decades and said he
is "bullish" on his old friend.

As legislator and lobbyist, Hammond has always been a "philosophically based
voice of reason," even when it was politically difficult, Gullahorn said.

One of the strengths of Hammond that has served the Texas business community so
well has been his ability to look forward to the future and craft
business-related policies including those related to workforce matters,
education issues and health care, Gullahorn said.

"He is always forward-thinking in his analysis," Gullahorn said.

Gullahorn sees Hammond's impact on the state's business climate as significant,
as he has had a hand in laying the groundwork for many business policies.

"I think Hammond has been a critical part of the fabric that has led Texas to
enjoy the success it has in business," Gullahorn said. "He has been - and I hope
he will continue to be - recognized as a major leader."

Even people who don't call Hammond a friend seem to respect him.

Tom "Smitty" Smith, state director of Public Citizen, a national consumer and
environmental group, rarely found himself on the same side of an issue as
Hammond, but he called him a "worthy opponent" and a "smart advocate" for
industry.

Smith said Hammond played a role in creating policies on tort reform, limiting
consumer claims, easing the environmental permitting among others.

"He and the chemical companies and the oil and gas industry have worked hand in
hand to shape a more favorable business climate in Texas," Smith said.

Hammond's successor, who will be chosen after a search committee at the
association has time to look around, will undoubtedly be compared to his or her
predecessor. But whoever it is, that person will be expected to be an effective
voice and an aggressive spokesperson for multinationals and mom-and-pops across
the state. And level of competence could take some time to achieve.

"One has to get his sea legs under him, so to speak," Hammond said.

Contact Tim Eaton

at 512-445-3631.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 29, 2016 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

A tale of two restaurants at South Congress Hotel

BYLINE: Matthew Odam American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T4

LENGTH: 1614 words


The South Congress Hotel has little company in Austin's hospitality industry.
There are other local and privately owned hotels in the city, but none has
rolled out such an ambitious food and beverage operation.

The modernist hotel features three separate restaurants, as well as a coffee
shop and juice bar, and it delivers room service. All of this for a hotel with
fewer than 100 rooms. The restaurants - Café No Sé, Central Standard and Otoko -
prove that the South Congress Hotel is as concerned with being a part of the
Austin social and culinary scene as it is a place for well-heeled vacationing
guests.

Both Café No Sé and Central Standard define themselves with thoughtful and
dramatic design, with the California cool of the former and the New York City
pomp and glitz of the latter serving as aesthetic bookends for the hotel. (The
12-seat modern kaiseki Otoko will be reviewed at a later date.)

Hexagonal floor tiles echo sea and clouds in Café No Sé's serene and airy dining
room colored with whitewash and wicker. Blue throw pillows plucked from a living
room line banquettes beneath wooden bookshelves housing coffeetable books on
design, food and culture. A magazine rack even holds recent issues of Variety,
nudging the L.A. vibe right up to the point of caricature.

The restaurant serves breakfast (brunch on weekends), lunch and dinner daily,
and the menu generally complements the lighter aesthetic, though room is made
for comfort notes throughout the day.

Creamy avocado toast with soft-boiled eggs, bright greens and aleppo carrots
($13) served as a cool entry point to a brunch that included some of the best
ricotta pancakes in town, the lithe banana-studded rounds embraced by the slow
march of viscous maple syrup ($12). The hotcakes are further testament to the
brilliance of executive pastry chef Amanda Rockman, who also delivers at brunch
a crusty kouign amann ($4) that defies science: how can so much butter and sugar
combine for a pastry this light? Crack the caramelized shell and the bread
almost dissolves like a cloud.

Rockman's creations continued to impress throughout the day and into the
evening, with dessert highlighted by a playful gingerbread ice cream bar topped
with flowers of toasted meringue ($7) at lunch and her signature golden Basque
cake ($12) laced with bright citrus and given sweet depth and complexity from
charred dates and the rich tingle of speculoos at dinner.

Rotating daily crudo specials of velvety fish punched with citrus and chilies
($16) and a poke bowl ($14) of ruby tuna chunks jumbled with the crunch and bite
of pistachios, olives, pickled jalapeño and grapefruit glowed with freshness and
reflected the coastal influence at lunch. Even stouter proteins got a light
touch, like chicken thighs braised in yogurt and served as a chicken salad
sandwich crunchy with vibrant chayote slaw and peanuts dusted with garam masala
($13).

OK, not all the dishes are worried about restraint. You'd assume the brawnier
Central Standard would have the better burger. You'd be wrong. Café No Sé's
burger ($13) is an unapologetic nostalgia tickler (and one of the top 10 in
town) with its Kraft singles melting over double patties sandwiched between
pillowy and absorbent sesame seed buns.

While Café No Sé evokes California, it also touches on other sunny spots. In
addition to the Indian-spiced peanuts in the chicken salad sandwich, you'll find
other global influences on the Café No Sé menu, from a spread of white bean
hummus flecked with Middle Eastern herbs at lunch ($13) to tangy and tender lamb
ribs stacked atop cauliflower and potato chaat slicked in an exhilarating
charmoula ($34). That dish and another with broad ribbons of housemade
pappardelle twisted around hunks of braised rabbit showered with the salty grace
of pecorino cheese and celery ($24) have bistro heart, but dinner at Café No Sé
seems slightly out of place. Despite solid execution and a nice variety of
flavors that play off the established theme, dinner in the window-wrapped cafe
felt like we had snuck into a pop-up event at a closed restaurant built for
morning and afternoon service.

Having mastered breakfast, brunch and lunch with both its point of view and
aesthetic, it would make sense to have Café No Sé serve as the South Congress
Hotel's dining destination for daylight hours, while leaving its swanky big
brother up the sidewalk to host dinner.

While Café No Sé has the confidence and style of your sophisticated aunt who
moved to Laurel Canyon in the '60s and later Malibu after her career as a
production designer took off, Central Standard feels like your day-trading uncle
who's relocated to New York and wants you to buy into the facade of his fancy
new life.

From its bold font that looks plucked from a Scorsese movie poster to its
emerald tiled raw bar and gold light fixtures and panels partially shielding the
open kitchen, the high-ceilinged restaurant swaggers with big-city grandeur and
elegance. The north side of the restaurant and patio provide stunning views of a
growing downtown skyline fit for a city, not a town.

With the exception of the Gulf provenance of the oysters, the creamy oyster soup
and its touch of tangy brine intend to transport you to Grand Central Oyster Bar
in Manhattan, another brown and gold beauty laid head-to-toe with tile ($15).
The accompanying uni toast doubled down on sumptuous flavors of the sea, but
make sure to order a loaf of warm tanned potato bread with the gloss and hue of
Italian loafers ($9). It pulled apart to reveal a flossy spiraled heart. The
dish is part of a growing trend of charging for artisan bread with adorned
homemade butter (here smoked sea salt), and it's worth the added expense.

Rockman is responsible for the bread and all the baked goods at the hotel, like
a pretty hibiscus-glazed and grapefruit-dotted cake doughnut at brunch ($5).
It's an artful spin on the morning favorite.

Unfortunately, most of Central Standard's dinner menu shares little of that
spirit or delicateness, and few surprises.

Lobster billed as chilled would have been better referred to as cold, the stingy
meat firm and tough ($24). An overcooked New York strip ($38) buried beneath
meaty oyster mushrooms and thyme lacked a seasoned sear, and though an herb
confetti brought life to skewered mahi mahi ($32), the fish was harder to get
through than our comically long dinner. Even classics like a wedge salad ($11)
and a deconstructed Caesar ($14) that needed more anchovy didn't get me in a New
York state of mind.

I don't know if Central Standard is trying to broadly cater to travelers or
create a transportive vibe for Austinites, but the South Congress Hotel is not a
businessman's destination, and the New York style alone is unconvincing.
Whatever the idea, Central Standard is asking you to believe in something of
which the food can not convince you.

I would eat brunch just about anywhere to get Central Standard's creamy bowl of
chopped deviled egg salad topped with chives ($8), but the formal setting isn't
warm enough for brunch. We felt like interlopers at the hotel restaurant on a
Sunday morning. If you're going to brunch as a non-guest at a hotel, you want
the meal to have a sense of occasion; instead, it just felt like a meal
shoehorned into the wrong space.

The seared tuna ($22) with its mango and avocado salad looked tired and sloppy.
Overly salty and tough salmon was wisely masked beneath the hollandaise of eggs
Benedict ($15), and the fluff of French toast was squashed by globs of lumpy
whipped ricotta and cloying fruit jam ($15). Given the quality of all the baked
goods from Café No Sé, as well as a dense chocolate lava cake ($11) at Central
Standard, I was surprised to find a tasty cheddar bacon fat biscuit with the
structural integrity of a sand castle ($5).

The operators of the South Congress Hotel obviously invested equal energy in
envisioning restaurants that could stand alone while complementing their
beautiful hotel. Café No Sé quickly developed a voice and point of view that
helped it add to the culinary conversation in Austin, but Central Standard still
struggles to be something more than a serviceable hotel restaurant, despite its
considered polish.

Contact Matthew Odam at 512-912-5986.

Café No Sé
  1603 S. Congress Ave. 512-942-2061, cafenoseaustin.com
  Rating: 8.5 out of 10
  Hours: 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday-Wednesday, 7 a.m. to midnight
Thursday-Saturday.
  Prices: Breakfast, $6-$14. Brunch and lunch, $11-$16. Dinner: starters and
salads, $6-$16; entrees, $18-$34.
  What the rating means: The 10-point scale is an average of weighted scores
for food, service, value, ambience and overall dining experience, with 10 being
 the best.
  Notes: Complimentary valet parking available for up to three hours.
Complimentary garage parking with validation.
  The Bottom Line: Don't let the name fool you; the cafe at the South Congress
Hotel knows what it's doing.


Central Standard
  1603 S. Congress Ave. 512-942-0823, centralstandardaustin.com.
  Rating: 6.5 out of 10
  Hours: Lunch: 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday-Friday. Dinner: 5 to 10 p.m.
Sunday-Wednesday and 5 to 11 p.m. Thursday-Saturday. Brunch: 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday.
  Prices: Salads and starters, $9-$24. Mains, $16-$26 at brunch and lunch;
$18-$42 at dinner.
  What the rating means: The 10-point scale is an average of weighted scores
for food, service, value, ambience and overall dining experience, with 10 being
 the best.
  Notes: Complimentary valet parking available for up to three hours.
Complimentary garage parking with validation.
  The Bottom Line: The upscale restaurant at the South Congress Hotel is in a
New York state of mind, but I have trouble buying its heart.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

5 things to look for in Obama's final State of the Union address

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 506 words


President Barack Obama gives his final State of the Union address at 8 p.m.
Tuesday. Here's what to look for:

1. Breakup note: Unlike a typical State of the Union speech, don't expect a long
wish list of items for Congress to pass. With the executive action on guns this
month, Obama has shown he's not expecting to work closely with Congress in his
final year in office.

2. Retrospective: Obama is expected to look back, as well as forward, trying to
sell the American people on his accomplishments in an effort to begin shaping
his legacy.

3. Social push: The White House will try to reach a wider audience by debuting a
Snapchat account with behind-the-scenes images of the speech (account name:
WhiteHouse). The address also will stream live on YouTube.

4. Tee up for Hillary: With the election for his successor less than 10 months
away, expect Obama to tout progress under his watch on addressing climate
change, expanding gay rights and the improving the economy. The message to those
who voted for him: Don't let Republicans reverse course.

5. Austin represented: Two Austinites will be among the guests seated with
Michelle Obama and Jill Biden during the speech. They are Austin Community
College student Jenny Bragdon, who told the vice president's wife last spring
about her return to the classroom after two decades, and Earl Smith, the chief
of security at the Hyatt Regency Austin downtown who gave Barack Obama a 101st
Airborne Division patch during the 2008 campaign.

1.Breakup note: Unlike a typical State of the Union speech, don't expect a long
wish list of items for Congress to pass. With the executive action on guns this
month, Obama has shown he's not expecting to work closely with Congress in his
final year in office.

2.Retrospective: Obama is expected to look back, as well as forward, trying to
sell the American people on his accomplishments in an effort to begin shaping
his legacy.

3.Social push: The White House will try to reach a wider audience by debuting a
Snapchat account with behind-the-scenes images of the speech (account name:
WhiteHouse). The address also will stream live on YouTube.

4.Tee up for Democrats : With the election for his successor fewer than 10
months away, expect Obama to tout progress under his watch on addressing climate
change, expanding gay rights and the improving the economy. The message to those
who voted for him: Don't let Republicans reverse course.

5.Austin represented: Two Austinites will be among the guests seated with
Michelle Obama and Jill Biden during the speech. They are Austin Community
College student Jenny Bragdon, who told the vice president's wife last spring
about her return to the classroom after two decades, and Earl Smith, the chief
of security at the Hyatt Regency Austin downtown who gave Barack Obama a 101st
Airborne Division patch during the 2008 campaign.

- American-Statesman Staff

President Barack Obama gives his final State of the Union address at 8 p.m.
Tuesday. Here's what to look for.

Read the latest news from the address at statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Texas asks high court to stop EPA power plan

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 218 words


Undaunted by a decision by federal judges that didn't go their way just last
week, Texas and more than two dozen other states announced Tuesday that they
have asked the U.S. Supreme Court to put the brakes on the Obama
administration's environmental policy.

The states are asking the court to halt the EPA's Clean Power Plan as litigation
continues in the D.C. Circuit Court.

The Clean Power Plan is the Obama administration's effort to further cut power
plant carbon emissions, which scientists link to climate change. Likely to lead
to the shuttering of some coal plants, the plan has fueled running disputes
between the energy industry and Washington - the Obama "war on coal," as
Republican policymakers in Texas have called it.

Texas, West Virginia and other states have said the rules will harm the economy
and constitutes a power grab. Last week, a three-judge panel of the D.C. Circuit
denied Texas' petition to stay the Clean Power Plan.

The plan "will kill jobs and significantly raise electric bills for all
Americans," Attorney General Ken Paxton said in a prepared statement.

Environmentalists have said that Texas officials should look for ways to tamp
down carbon emissions and invest in cleaner energy sources instead of fighting
the regulation.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Candidates to face off in congressional primaries

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1425 words


In a time-honored tradition of trudging against the ­forces of incumbency and in
some cases, gerrymandering, several obscure candidates are gamely running for
U.S. Congress in Central Texas.

Come November, the ­races are generally not expected to be competitive, but both
Republicans and Democrats are running to be standard-bearers in primaries.

Early voting ends Friday; primary day is Tuesday.

In the 10th Congressional District, one that ranges the shores of Lake Travis
through Central Austin and then across Bastrop and Fayette counties to the
western suburbs of Houston, U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, is running
unopposed in his primary.

McCaul, who chairs the House Committee on Homeland Security, has routinely won
re-election, getting between 55 percent and 75 percent of the general election
vote in the heavily Republican district.

In November, he will face either Democrat Tawana Cadien, a registered nurse and
educator who lives in Harris County, or Democrat Scot Gallaher, a Katy
businessman.

Both of those candidates have emphasized cutting wasteful government spending
and raising the minimum wage.

"Women deserve to be fairly paid based on their skill and not underpaid because
of their gender," Cadien said in response to a survey printed by the
American-Statesman. Cadien lost to McCaul in 2012 and 2014.

Gallaher, who has degrees in engineering and international development, said the
country should modernize rail and roads, "but the biggest return comes in
returning America to leadership in broadband connectivity."

In the 17th Congressional District, which includes the northeast fringe of
Austin, as well as a strip of Bastrop County, before stretching north to Waco,
incumbent Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan, faces two GOP challengers.

Flores heads the Republican Study Committee, which determines whether
legislative proposals are aligned with conservative values.

Despite Flores' conservative voting record - he has been endorsed by the
National Rifle Association and got a 0 percent rating from Planned Parenthood -
Waco businessman and former McLennan County Republican Party Chairman Ralph
Patterson and Kaleb Sims, who works for a metal fabrication business owned by
his family in Groesbeck, are running to the right of Flores.

In his campaign material, Patterson says that apart from protecting "the
vulnerable and the innocent," the government "should leave us alone and allow us
to embrace the individual liberties that the Constitution affords us."

Sims, a Texas A&M University graduate, has a grim assessment of the current
state of the country: "The nation I love is fading into shadow." Like his fellow
Republicans, he has called for repealing the Affordable Care Act and says
"draconian regulations" should be removed on energy projects.

William Matta, a McLennan Community College English instructor, is running
unopposed for the Democratic nomination.

In the 21st Congressional District, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Austin, finds himself
squaring off against three Republican challengers in a district that runs from
Central Austin to northern San Antonio and includes wide swaths of the Hill
Country.

Smith, who chairs the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology and is a
longtime foe of environmentalists on global warming issues, faces Boerne
businessman Matt McCall, who ran against Smith in 2014; libertarian-leaning
software engineer John Murphy, a recent University of Texas graduate; and Todd
Phelps, who ran for Austin mayor in 2014.

McCall says the U.S. "should seal the border immediately"; Murphy has called for
an end to a tax on profits earned abroad and an end to gerrymandering; and
Phelps has said he will "defend the Second Amendment relentlessly."

Two Democrats, Tejas Vakil and Tom Wakely, are running for their party's
nomination for the seat. Vakil, an Austin businessman, says he wants to reduce
business taxes and the national debt and to ease voting identification
requirements. Wakely, who runs a San Antonio hospice for military veterans,
favors increasing the minimum wage and shifting to renewable energy sources to
stave off climate change.

In District 31, which comprises Williamson and Bell counties, Rep. John Carter,
R-Round Rock, faces off against Mike Sweeney.

Carter, whose district includes part of Fort Hood, has long associated himself
with veterans' issues. ­Sweeney, a Georgetown businessman, calls for abolishing
the federal minimum wage and says he won't vote to increase the national debt.

Mike Clark is running unopposed for the Democratic nomination.

Two other Austin-area U.S. congressional primaries feature unopposed candidates
on both sides of the aisle.

In District 25, which includes parts of Central and East Austin, as well as
Tarrytown, West Lake Hills, Rollingwood, Southwest Austin, western Travis County
and western Hays County, Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, will face Democrat Kathi
Thomas in November.

U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, will run against Republican Susan Narvaiz in
November to defend his seat in District 35 running from East Austin to San
Antonio.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

DISTRICT 10

Tawana W. Cadien

Hometown: Cypress

Edu-cation: Prairie View A&M University, bachelor's degree; Texas Southern
University, master's degree

Profession: Public administrator, RN educator

Main issues: Promote safety and security, improve educational opportunities,
address the wage gap

Website: tawanacadienforcongress.com

Scot Gallaher

Hometown: Katy

Education: University of Texas, bachelor's degree; Harvard University, master's
degree

Prof-ession: Entre-preneur

Main issues: Support teacher training, alleviate college debt, build
infrastructure

Website: scotgallaher.com

DISTRICT 21

Tejas Vakil

Hometown: Austin

Education: University of Madras, India, bachelor's degree; Illinois Institute of
Techno-logy, master's degree; University of Iowa, MBA

Profession: Technology entrepreneur and consultant

Main issues: Boost job and wage growth, reduce national debt, lower health care
costs, reform immigration system

Website:

tejasforcongress.com

Tom Wakely

Hometown: San Antonio

Education: Loretto Height College, Chicago Theo-logical Seminary

Prof-ession: Social minister/hospice caregiver

Main issues: Fight climate change, address wealth and income inequality, promote
active duty military and veterans

Website:

wakely2016.com

DISTRICT 17

Bill Flores

Home-town: Bryan

Edu-cation: Texas A&M University, bachelor's degree; Houston Baptist University,
MBA

Profession: U.S. representative

Main issues: Promote fiscal responsibility, boost economic opportunity, restore
congressional authority

Website: BillFlores.com

Ralph Patterson

Hometown: Eddy

Edu-cation: Texas A&M University

Prof-ession: Computer software publisher

Main issues: Lower taxes, reduce regulation, strengthen military, oppose
abortion

Website:

PattersonForTexas.org

Kaleb Sims

Home-town: Groesbeck

Education: Texas A&M University, bachelor's degree

Prof-ession: Works in family metal fabrication and machining business

Main issues: Rein in federal spending, oppose Obamacare, support the Second
Amendment and states' rights

Website: kalebsims.com

DISTRICT 21

Lamar Smith

Home-town: San Antonio

Edu-cation: Yale University, bachelor's degree; Southern Methodist University,
law degree

Profession: U.S. repre-sentative

Main issues: Promote border security, oppose abortion, reduce spending, rein in
the IRS and EPA.

Website: texansforlamarsmith.com

John Murphy

Home-town: Austin

Education: University of Texas, bachelor's degree

Prof-ession: Software engineer

Main issues: Education reform, sensible immigration policy, promoting economic
opportunity, supporting veterans

Website: MurphyforTexas.com

Todd Phelps

Hometown: Austin

Education: University of Texas, Austin Community College

Prof-ession: Farming, ranching, small business owner

Main issues: Stop illegal immigration, protect Social Security for seniors,
defeat ISIS, lower taxes

Website: toddphelpsforcongress.com

Matt McCall

Hometown: Boerne

Education: Westmont College

Prof-ession: Small business owner

Main issues: Restore power to Congress, reduce debt

Website: votemattmccall.com

DISTRICT 31

John Carter

Home-town: Round Rock

Education: Texas Tech, bachelor's degree; University of Texas, law degree

Profession: U.S. representative

Main issues: Promote national security and fiscal responsibility

Website: johncarterforcongress.com

Mike Sweeney

Home-town: Georgetown

Education: Boise State University, bachelor's degree

Profes-sion: President, software company

Main issues: Rein in federal spending, promote a balanced budget, support
congressional term limits

Website: MikeSweeney4Congress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 29, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Terrain is only part of area's flood woes As communities in Flash Flood Alley
creep ever farther into once rural areas, officials struggle to regulate
construction; meanwhile, taxpayers' tab ticks upward.

BYLINE: Asher Price | asherprice@statesman.com

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1180 words


Bridges failing, property destroyed, people missing.

Late last week Austinites once again awoke to the consequences of torrential
rains.

Natural terrain in Central Texas - steep-sloped creeks and thin soils mean
little stops falling water from cascading down inundated soil - carries much of
the blame for earning the name Flash Flood Alley.

But to some degree, experts say, the devastation wrought by the floods is also
the consequence of outdated road construction and the reluctance of some
communities to bar construction in flood plains.

Even as scientists predict harsher and more frequent floods, Central Texas
communities are still wrestling with how much to regulate building in flood
plains. Officials race to upgrade low water crossings as formerly rural, even
frontierlike areas become suburban.

And beyond the very real miseries of moldy homes, lost belongings and
washed-away lives, taxpayers are often on the hook.

Since the late 1970s, the federal government has paid out $54 million for flood
claims in Austin and $43 million more in the rest of Travis County, the
American-Statesman has found in an analysis of Federal Emergency Management
Agency data.

Smaller communities devastated by floods have gotten hefty assistance. The
federal government has paid out $18 million worth of claims in Wimberley, where
homes were uprooted in 2015.

The problem is likely to get worse.

Increasing risk

In his 2008 book "Flash Floods in Texas," engineer Jonathan Burnett says the
state "has some of the most flash flood-prone land in the world."

And such extreme floods are expected to become more frequent because of global
warming, John Nielsen-Gammon, the state's climatologist and a Texas A&M
University professor, told the American-Statesman in 2015.

"The rate of rainfall is limited by how much moisture the air can carry. The
amount of moisture the air can carry is limited by its temperature. So the
warmer the ocean and overlying atmosphere, the greater the amount of water that
will be transported into Texas," he said. "If a region is vulnerable to flash
flooding because of steep terrain, shallow soils and an increasingly built-up
environment, the risk of flooding is going up."

As climate change causes extreme weather events to become more frequent and as
areas of Travis and Hays counties downstream of the Hill Country continue to
grow in population, both the severity of the flooding and the number of people
in harm's way are expected to increase. The week before floods last year
devastated northeastern San Marcos, the Census Bureau named it the
fastest-growing city in the country for the third year in a row.

In many ways, these communities are trying to play catch-up as bigger
populations face inundation.

Deadly crossings

Perhaps nowhere are they more exposed than at low water crossings, vestiges of a
time when roads were little more than fords for wagons to cross oft-dry creeks.

Nowadays, about three-quarters of flooding deaths in Texas involve people in
their cars.

Austin alone has about 400 low water crossings that sit below the 100-year flood
plain, said Kevin Shunk, the city of Austin's flood plain administrator.

The city prioritizes flood mitigation improvement projects based on risk.
Factors include the possible depth of water over a road and the velocity with
which it could run, as well as vehicle traffic count on the road. Mitigation can
include elevating a road and building bigger culverts beneath it, or even
converting the low water crossing into a bridge.

Such projects can cost $1 million or more, Shunk said.

In 2010, city workers replaced Lakewood Drive's low water crossing through Bull
Creek in West Austin with a bridge. Previously, the road basically ran along the
creek's bottom.

"We don't do things that way anymore," Shunk said.

More recently, city workers upgraded a crossing of Slaughter Creek along David
Moore Drive. But there remains a list of projects the city has eyed for flood
mitigation, including work on Spicewood Springs and Old Spicewood Springs roads
in northwestern Travis County and improvements to Old San Antonio Road in South
Austin.

"There are more needs out there than we have funding to address," said Shunk,
who said most of the city's upgrade money for low water crossings comes from the
drainage utility fund.

Controlling

urban runoff

City officials are looking at ways to update the city code to reduce storm
runoff from developed properties.

Under city rules, new development may not increase the risk of flood damage on
downstream properties. But many sites developed before detention requirements
were introduced in the 1970s lack detention facilities of any kind, "and the
runoff from these sites may currently contribute to downstream flooding,"
according to a city land-use report released in March.

Because flood plain regulations can affect property values, they have been a
contentious issue in some communities.

The Statesman reported last year that San Marcos has been approving about a
dozen projects per year in the 100-year flood plain - the federally designated
area where there is an estimated 1 percent chance of a major flood in any given
year.

In October, after FEMA issued updated draft maps of the flood plain for parts of
Hays County, the Wimberley City Council declined to adopt the maps, instead
leaving it up to the property owners whether they will follow FEMA's guidelines.

Central Texans "have a history of development in places that are problematic,"
said Burnett, the engineer and author.

"It's our desire to be near the water - we're such a dry state that we've always
tried to put ourselves as close to the water as possible," he said. "We build
houses overlooking a river: For 50 years that can be fine, and then overnight it
can be a disaster."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Statesman Weather app
  keeps Central Texans forewarned
  The American-Statesman weather app is available for iPhone and Android
devices. Statesman Weather features include radar, a 7-day forecast, real-time
severe weather alerts, as well as the latest weather news and social sharing.
Download for free in the Apple iTunes and Google Play stores by searching for
"Statesman Weather."


By the numbers
  From 1978 to 2016, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has paid out more
than $6.2 billion on about 204,000 flood insurance claims in Texas. Houston
leads the way with $1.4 billion in flood insurance claims. The Central Texas
breakdown:
  Travis County - 917 claims worth $42.6 million
  * Austin - 2,053 claims worth $54.4 million in Austin
  Hays County - 351 claims worth $22.4 million
  * San Marcos - 659 claims worth $23.8 million
  * Wimberley - 138 claims for $18.4 million
  Williamson County - 205 claims worth nearly $8.7 million
  * Round Rock - 179 claims worth $5.4 million
  Caldwell County -107 claims worth $ 5.7 million
  Bastrop County - 119 claims worth $4.5 million


Expert Reporting
  Asher Price has covered environmental and energy issues in Central Texas for
a decade, including examinations of long-term water supplies and the
consequences, science and politics of drought.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 8, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Democrats pressed to revisit fracking stance Democrats pressed to toughen on
fracking

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 657 words


Determined to press the Texas Democratic Party to adopt a more aggressive stance
on climate change and fracking, an Austin environmental activist is gearing up
for a guerrilla maneuver on the floor of the party's state convention next week
in San Antonio.

Jere Locke, who runs the nonprofit Texas Drought Project and has long been
involved in environmental matters in Central Texas, has recruited volunteers to
gather thousands of signatures during the convention, to be held June 17-18, in
a bid to force stronger language onto the party's platform.

The platform serves as a guiding document for the party and its candidates. For
the Democrats, who hold no statewide elected offices, the platform is also meant
to serve as a sort of blueprint back to victory, one that balances convictions
with pragmatism for a party whose members range from the liberal bastions of the
big cities to the more conservative oil and gas fields south of San Antonio and
in West Texas.

Currently, the state Democratic Party platform says the state "is blessed with
natural gas and oil resources and new hydraulic fracturing technologies for
extraction have opened up vast resources."

Locke said the language is too rosy on fracking, in which millions of gallons of
water, mixed with sand and chemicals, are injected into rock thousands of feet
underground to extract natural gas. Environmentalists say fracking and related
industrial activities have led to groundwater contamination, air pollution and
earthquakes.

The platform calls for a "verifiable and thorough review of the deleterious
effects of hydraulic fracturing" - but Locke says that needs updating because
deleterious effects have been documented.

The Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the oil and gas industry, has
documented no contamination of groundwater. And natural gas companies argue the
fuel burns cleaner than coal.

But Locke wants the party to adopt language calling for a ban on new fracking
operations.

Dissatisfied with early discussions on the state party platform advisory
committee on which he sits - Locke said the reaction has been lukewarm about
more aggressive language - he says he is preparing for the petition drive. He
will need to get signatures from at least 4,500 delegates, or about half the
total delegate count, to get his language in the party platform.

"We're going to take it to the floor," said Locke, adding that he recently
bought 140 clipboards and has been busily recruiting volunteers to work on the
delegates at the convention. "We're interested in winning, but also in educating
people."

Locke said he suspected that utility companies that sponsor the convention had
played a role in what he deemed watered-down language: CenterPoint Energy, Atmos
Energy, Luminant, Oncor and TXU Energy are among the event's business sponsors.

But Manny Garcia, Texas Democratic Party deputy executive director , said the
sponsors played no role in constructing the platform.

"The platform is done out in the open," Garcia said. "He himself is on the
committee: All he has to do is work with his colleagues on the committee and
work with the committee chair to get it done."

Another Austin environmental activist, Karen Hadden, who has previously worked
on party platform language, said some of the energy and environmental language,
last adopted in 2014, "needs some strengthening."

"Some people will try to do that, and some people will fight it," she said. "But
I don't think there's anything out of the ordinary."

The platform-writing process is consensus driven, said AJ Durrani, a former
Shell executive from the Houston area who also serves on the advisory committee.

"Every member of that committee has a feeling about how that platform should be
written," he said. "Whenever you have a committee of people, the result is a
collective statement that one person might not want, but that most everyone
might agree to."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

UT finds key role of Arctic waters

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 473 words


Arctic waters are even more important to the health of the world's oceans than
previously thought, according to University of Texas researchers who say

their new findings could have implications for the oil and gas industry.

The amount of nitrogen in the oceans, particularly the Pacific, has been surging
over the last three decades, mainly because of fertilizer runoff and sewage. The
resulting nitrogen spike has come with side effects such as ever-larger algae
blooms that are toxic to fish and other marine species.

Though bacteria in the ocean naturally remove some of this excess nitrogen, UT
researchers say the balance the oceans once kept worldwide has been thrown off.

Most ocean nitrogen is removed in the world's continental shelves, which are the
edges of continents that lie underwater.

The Arctic only accounts for about 1 percent of the world's continental shelves,
but those Arctic shelves account for about 5 percent of the global ocean
nitrogen removal, according to data from UT's research.

The UT findings suggest the Arctic is even more important than previously
thought and "adds to the environmental case for protecting the region," said
researcher Amber Hardison, whose work was published Wednesday in the journal
Nature Communications.

The research was supported by U.S. Department of the Interior, according to the
university.

Environmental concerns for the Arctic Ocean are not new. Previous research
prompted the Obama administration to restrict oil and gas exploration around
Alaska.

In response to the new findings, Texas Oil & Gas Association President Todd
Staples said that "energy development and protecting the environment are not
mutually exclusive."

He cited the vice chair of the White House-led Arctic Executive Steering
Committee, Amy Pope, who said Tuesday at a conference that "responsibly
developing Arctic oil and gas resources aligns with United States'
all-of-the-above approach to developing domestic energy resources."

"Responsible energy development is critical to our economy, our environment and
our future," Staples said.

The UT marine chemists and biologists studied the Chukchi Sea, a part of the
Arctic Ocean adjacent to the Pacific Ocean and Alaska.

They discovered that seabed microbes remove

substantial quantities of nitrogen from the Arctic Ocean.

The Obama administration has placed a shallow part of the Chukchi Sea, the Hanna
Shoal, off-limits to additional oil and gas leasing, partly to protect sea ice
that serves as a habitat for walruses.

Alaska politicians such as U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski have said the restrictions
on oil and gas exploration constitutes a "war on Alaska" and its economy.

But Hardison said global climate change is causing the sea ice to shrink, adding
that the diminishing ice is reducing the Arctic's capacity to regulate nitrogen.

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 3, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Creative Austinites' big plans for 2016

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 2962 words


Jack Murray and Stacy Keese

When Jack Murray took fellow track athlete Stacy Keese to their high school prom
in the small town of Sinton back in 1996, he probably didn't envision what
they'd be doing today.

Or maybe he did. By the time she graduated, Keese had already produced a 5K and
10K, for the school's National Honor Society. And Murray had captured the state
title in the mile.

Now the couple, co-owners with Dan Carroll of High Five Events, are stretching
their event-producing muscle in Austin, where they recently purchased the Austin
Marathon and Half Marathon from Conley Sports. No big changes are planned for
the race in 2016, but both have hinted at future course changes. The marathon
brings to 35 the number of events High Five puts on, including the Statesman
Capitol 10,000, Lifetime Tri CapTex, Ironman 70.3 Austin, Livestrong Challenge
and FloTrack Beer Mile World Championship.

In the meantime, their bike and triathlon shop, Jack & Adam's, merged with Texas
Endurance Sports earlier this year, becoming Bicycle World, and now they're
partners in seven Bicycle World shops around the state. They're also investors
in Gibson Street Bar, the Wheel and Burro Cheese Kitchen, all while short-term
renting two houses in East Travis Heights. And earlier this month, they launched
an event registration company called Eventdog.

"The spirit of Austin allows something like this to exist," says Murray, 39, of
their fitness-themed mini-empire. "We're more stewards of the fitness community,
and it's a big responsibility." In 2016, they want to manage their growth. "And
we want to make sure we're still having fun ourselves, which we are. We love
what we do." - Pam LeBlanc

Louis Grachos

Before he had been on the job for even a full year, Louis Grachos, executive
director of the Contemporary Austin, in 2013 netted a $9 million grant from the
Marcus Foundation to transform the museum's historic 12-acre Laguna Gloria
lakeside site into a destination sculpture park, an astute move to leverage the
unique property as a new kind of outside art museum for Austin. "Art doesn't
have to be only shown inside a white box," said Grachos at the time. "We can be
a museum without walls."

While the organization undertakes a multiyear master plan to re-envision Laguna
Gloria, Grachos has turned attention to the downtown Jones Center, the museum's
Congress Avenue facility. In April, the Jones Center will close for an upgrade,
a $3 million renovation for which Grachos is not launching a public capital
campaign. Instead he's snagged a $1.3 million Moody Foundation grant as well as
private donations.

When it reopens in mid-November, the Jones Center will have an expanded inside
gallery space and upgraded climate-control systems that meet museum-industry
standards, and it will sport a permanent canopy on its rooftop deck, enabling
year-round programs and happenings above Congress Avenue.

"We're extremely excited to reinvigorate our downtown home," says Grachos. "With
the improvements to the Jones Center, we'll be able to host exhibits that we
haven't otherwise been able to." - Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

Peter Mullan

It was just a year ago that Peter Mullan was appointed chief executive officer
of the Waller Creek Conservancy, the nonprofit organization that in partnership
with the city is spearheading the ambitious re-imagining of the downtown
waterway.

Mullan's charge is enormous, not least of which is the task of helping Austin
realize what potential lies in a 1.5-mile swatch of the long-overlooked urban
creekside.

Mullan brings a singular set of skills to the job. A graduate of Yale School of
Architecture, he spent more than a decade leading Friends of the High Line, the
organization responsible for transforming a stretch of abandoned elevated
railroad track on Manhattan's West Side into a unique art-filled urban park and
enormously popular civic attraction.

"There's no other project like (Waller Creek) in the country right now," said
Mullan.

Indeed, nothing intrigues him more than discussing with people how the
overlooked park can be transformed into a year-round community space replete
with a band shell for concerts, green spaces and gardens, play structures for
children and an abundance of public art.

"Art can profoundly catalyze public space into a new kind of social space," he
said. "The public realm is where the great things happen in a city." - J.C.v.R.

Jake Maddux

If he's being honest, Jake Maddux isn't too fond of the word "brewpub" - at
least not when it comes to the project he's been envisioning for years and is
finally going to open this summer.

The Brewer's Table, an upcoming restaurant and brewery at East Fifth Street and
Springdale Road, is putting an equal focus on the food and the beer, something
he hasn't quite seen exist in Austin yet. He'll be in charge of crafting the
beer while Ned Elliott, owner of the top-rated North Loop restaurant Foreign &
Domestic, heads up the culinary side (Elliott will remain a big part of his
first restaurant). And each program will center on the use of wood:
wood-fermented lagers made from American oak foeders and puncheons and
wood-fired cuisine from an 8 1/2-foot fire pit grill.

"There's nothing like wood. It adds so much character," Maddux said. "There's
literal history because it's carbon from the past. I think it adds a nice bit of
life to food and beer."

In addition to the half-dozen house beers on tap, the Brewer's Table will have
about 30 guest beers as well, including three - New Belgium Fat Tire, Sierra
Nevada Pale Ale and Anchor Steam - that he plans to have available at all times
because they are "the foundation of the beer world."

Maddux would know. He started out his time in the beer industry at Anchor
Brewing in California and also worked briefly at New Belgium Brewing in Colorado
before coming down to Austin, where he brewed at Thirsty Planet and now heads up
Salt and Time's beverage program. Inspired by the hard work he grew up seeing
his aunt Julie put into her Tulsa restaurant, he has long wanted a place of his
own where people come together for a good time with food and drinks.

"Almost every day I go to my empty space and just sit there in the middle of the
floor and meditate a little bit," Maddux said. "Look at the floor plans and
envision what it's going to become." - Arianna Auber

Otto Phan

The owner of excellent sushi trailer KyÅcten will look to write the next chapter
in Austin's trailer-to-restaurant success story. The Houston native and
University of Texas graduate has grand ambitions for his small restaurant,
KyÅcten Sushiko, which will open in the spring at 4600 Mueller Blvd.

"When it opens, it will be one of the best sushi restaurants in the country,"
Phan said in November. "My goal is to be the best sushi restaurant in the
world."

The centerpiece of the restaurant will be a table serving an omakase (chef's
tasting menu) that will feature about two dozen bites. The chef's current
trailer in East Austin is modest, but his resume includes time at illustrious
restaurants such as Nobu and Bar Masa in New York City and Uchi in Austin.

The chef's colorful and flavorful sushi preparations and presentations along
with his exceptional rice are indicators that he may be able to live up the
lofty bar that he has set for himself.

It will be interesting to see if Phan can achieve his goals and whether a
restaurant serving an expensive (about $150) tasting menu (there will also be a
variety of boxed sushi and rolls available for dine-in and takeout) can thrive
in the Mueller development. - Matthew Odam

Tamara Becerra Valdez

Interdisciplinary artist and herbalist Tamara Becerra Valdez has always been
inspired by beauty in unexpected places. It's that spirit that has led her to
pursue a variety of creative endeavors from goldsmithing to launching her own
apothecary line, Botanicals Folklorica.

This summer, Becerra Valdez was among the artists featured in Mexic-Arte's Young
Latino Artist's exhibit "YLA 20: Within Reach." Her unique installation included
plant arrangements and collected objects from her childhood home in Corpus
Christi that blended Tejano heritage and nostalgia.

After living in Austin for a decade, Becerra Valdez is forging a new path in
2016. She recently moved to Mexico City and plans to travel back and forth
between Austin and the megalopolis.

She says the relocation will give her a new perspective for more ideas and
projects both in Mexico and Texas. She's already working on a short series of
newsprints inspired by her time in Mexico City. The newsprint pages will feature
photography, drawings and writings in English and Spanish. Austin-based
nonprofit Human Sciences will publish her work.

Throughout the new year she'll participate in several exhibits everywhere from
Richmond, Va., to Mexico City before launching her first solo exhibition in
Austin in late October at the contemporary art gallery Companion. - Nancy Flores

Amir Elaguizy

Subscription-box services such as Birchbox and Loot Crate have become
increasingly popular as many of us have come to find great pleasure in a monthly
mailer of surprises.

But have you ever wondered how hard it might be to run a service like that?

Amir Elaguizy, CEO of Austin-based Cratejoy, set out in 2013 with his co-founder
Alex Morse to make it easier for anyone to start one, a kind of user-friendly
Etsy or eBay for creative people with goods to offer. "When we started
Cratejoy," Elaguizy says, "there was nobody teaching anybody how to run a
subscription business. We had to make the business model accessible."

Cratejoy has been wildly successful and now boasts more than 10,000 businesses
using its platform. It has expanded from 12 employees to 33 in 2015 and has
plans to double that number in 2016.

Elaguizy, who with Morse previously sold a statistical analysis company to Zynga
in 2011, says he's been gratified to see jewelry-makers, STEM educational
suppliers and even makers of pet treats thrive using Cratejoy's tools. In 2016,
he wants to get a lot of those business owners together to meet; the company is
talking about setting up a conference or event for some real-world face time.

He also wants to spend lots of time with his son, who is 10 months old. And yes,
his son is a subscriber to multiple services, including Bookroo (children's
books every month), A Little Bundle (curated baby products) and 21 Bundles
(natural products for pregnant and new moms). - Omar L. Gallaga

Jeff Nichols

Ask Austin director Jeff Nichols if there are any last minute tweaks to his
upcoming Warner Bros. thriller "Midnight Special," which is due in theaters in
March, and he quietly replies, "No." He is busy editing his next picture, also
due out in 2016.

Wait, what?

Yes, while Nichols was wrapping up "Midnight Special," his first studio movie,
he was also working on "Loving," a period piece he wrote and directed based on
the landmark 1967 civil rights case "Loving v. Virginia," which essentially made
prohibitions on interracial marriage illegal in the United States.

"That one is a true-blue indie film," Nichols said. "I hope it gets released
next fall, but we don't even have a distributor yet."

From his striking 2007 debut "Shotgun Stories" through his career-building "Take
Shelter" in 2011 and "Mud" the year after, Nichols has been true-blue indie for
his whole career. Not on the striking-looking "Midnight Special." Starring
Michael Shannon, Kirsten Dunst, Jaeden Lieberher, Adam Driver and Joel Edgerton,
"Midnight Special" follows Roy (Shannon), a father trying to keep his young,
gifted son (Lieberher) out of the hands of both religious fanatics and the
government.

Nichols describes it as a "1980s sci-fi chase movie" in the spirit of "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind," "E.T." and especially John Carpenter's "Starman."

"There is a sense of mystery and awe in those movies that I love," Nichols said.
"I really like the texture and the look of those movies." "Starman" is of
particular interest, as it was Carpenter's attempt to break out of horror and
make an adult drama (admittedly one about a naked Jeff Bridges as an alien who
fell to Earth.) "That was a studio movie, but it feels very much like an indie
road movie to me," Nichols says. - Joe Gross

Hayes Carll

The news last month that country-folk singer-songwriter Hayes Carll had received
a Grammy nomination for Best Country Song came as a mild surprise, given that
Carll has kept a fairly low profile in the last few years. But "Chances Are," a
battle-scars love song he recorded for his 2011 album "KMAG YOYO," got a new
lease on life when singer Lee Ann Womack recorded it on her latest album, "The
Way I'm Livin'."

"To say the least I am grateful to Lee Ann for recording â  Chances Are,' and as
a songwriter, I am blown away to have the song nominated," Carll told us just
after the announcement in early December. It's the first Grammy nomination for
Carll, but he's no stranger to awards affairs, having won Song of the Year and
Emerging Artist honors from the Americana Music Association during his two-album
tenure with Lost Highway Records.

Carll has continued to tour consistently since leaving Lost Highway after "KMAG
YOYO," and he's occasionally turned up as a special guest at local benefit
concerts. He brought the house down at 2014's Mack, Jack & McConaughey
fundraiser with his risque romp "One Bed, Two Girls and Three Bottles of Wine,"
and he contributed a cover of Procol Harum's "A Whiter Shade of Pale" to last
year's All ATX compilation and concert.

But it's been five years since Carll has released an album. That drought will
end this spring with "Lovers and Leavers," which he's putting out via Nashville
distribution company Thirty Tigers. In some respects, its songs and style follow
suit from "Chances Are": Carll has called it "a more personal and emotional
record," and a preview listen confirms that assessment. Working with renowned
producer Joe Henry (Elvis Costello, Emmylou Harris, Bonnie Raitt), Carll steers
away from the brashness of his more humorous material toward decidedly
introspective songcraft, with auspicious results.

Carll's first shows of 2016 are at the 30A Songwriters Festival on Florida's
Gulf Coast in mid-January. On the homefront, he'll be one of the marquee names
at this year's Old Settler's Music Festival in mid-April. - Peter Blackstock

Wendy Davis

If anyone thought Wendy Davis might go away after her failed run for Texas
governor in 2014, never to return to the public eye, they don't know Wendy.

In fact, the campaign defeat has become a springboard for Davis to speak out
more strongly on certain issues, and in 2016, she plans to make herself heard
even if she's not running for office. And to get it out of the way: Yes, she
still thinks about getting back into politics; no, she hasn't decided on when or
how that might happen.

Davis recently penned an essay for Politico expressing regret for supporting
open gun carry in Texas during her campaign. A tweet in October got her involved
in a discussion over South by Southwest Interactive's handling of a volatile
decision on content related to online misogyny at its upcoming March festival.
It earned her a role at a March 12 SXSW summit about online harassment.

This year will also include continued campaigning for Hillary Clinton's
presidential run. Davis spent part of December in Iowa and this month she'll be
in New Hampshire to support Clinton.

But most importantly to Davis is an initiative she's working on to get
millennial women more involved in creating change and, when possible, running
for office, even if that means a risk of losing.

She tells them, "It's OK to lose. I survived that. I'm still out here fighting
for the things I care about deeply."

Davis, who now lives in Austin full time, might also see her profile raised
again without mounting a political campaign; NBC bought the rights to her life
story, and a TV show is being developed about her post-political life. She says
it may air as soon as the fall. - O.G.

Celeste Flores

I Live Here, I Give Here belongs to a rarefied club of Austin meta-charities
whose social reach touches virtually every nonprofit in the area, especially
during its annual Amplify Austin fundraising event. So when it when it came time
to pick its third executive director, the somewhat unexpected choice from 250
national candidates was somebody already on staff.

The previous director, Tom Spencer, however, wasn't at all surprised.

"The greatest pleasure I had was working with Celeste Flores," Spencer told this
newspaper last year. "She's a consummate professional and a beautiful human
being. She's keenly intelligent, very strategic and knows how to get things
done."

During her short tenure, Flores, who joined I Live Here in 2012 after working
for other charities in Texas and elsewhere, has electrified a class of
Austinites who are hard to impress. She has worked on a fresh strategic plan
that will extend the group's aid to nonprofits while introducing the evolving
concept to fresh donors new to town.

"We're seeing an increase in requests for presentations," Flores said at the end
of 2015. "And our Amplify Austin goal for as many as 600 nonprofits in 2016 will
be $9 million - a 15 percent increase over 2015."

Amplify Austin was recently tapped for the Special Recognition award by
Association of Fundraising Professionals - to be awarded on Philanthropy Day in
February. It was also selected by Lights Camera Help's Film Frenzy as one of 10
nonprofits to work with a local filmmaker to create a new video highlighting its
work.

"We look to expand uses for our platform year-round, extend our brand and reach
into the online fundraising space to meet the needs of local nonprofits and
donors," Flores said. "And we'll refresh some of our other programming and
events like the Big Give." - Michael Barnes

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

UT expert develops gel to fix electronics

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 958 words


In the scramble to invent the battery of the future, many of the world's
brightest minds have focused on finding new materials for the parts that conduct
the juice. Guihua Yu and his University of Texas research team focused on goo: a
"self-healing" gel that could hold together the electrodes that tend to crack in
next-generation batteries as they charge.

They got the gel to work late last year, according to a pair of peer-reviewed
reports published in the scientific journal Nano Letters. The breakthrough has
implications for technologies as small as an iPhone, as large as batteries that
could power entire cities and as hip as Tesla's electric cars.

It will be years before the gel is on the market, but the potential uses
illustrate just how many sci-fi-sounding ideas are nearly a reality, thanks in
part to advances in the "flexible electronics" field: phone batteries that could
fix themselves; workout shirts with "biosensors" that could monitor someone's
heart rate; even, as a KUT report on Yu's work noted, robots that could heal
themselves when damaged. (Cue the T-1000 from "Terminator 2.")

"This first step was demonstrating its properties," Yu, who was named one of the
top 35 innovators under age 35 in 2014 by MIT Technology Review, told the
American-Statesman.

Make or break

The core problem that Yu's team took on is that, generally speaking, various
electronic components don't bend well, if at all. If bent, they often break.

Yu's team, rather than looking for ways to make the component itself more
flexible, searched for a way for the component to bind itself back together the
moment it breaks, making it essentially flexible.

Earlier research several years ago at Stanford University, where Yu did
postdoctoral work, led to a gel that could be applied to electrodes, one of the
breakable components. When the electrodes broke, the gel could adhere the pieces
together and keep the electricity flowing.

In theory, this would open the way for all sorts of advances in the electronics
field. The problem was that those gels required a catalyst, such as intense heat
or light, to trigger the healing process, so there has been little commercial
use for them.

Yu's team, though, engineered a gel that can activate on its own, without
applying some external force to it. Thus, the "self-healing" part.

But adding the self- healing property required some complex ­chemistry and meant
revisiting the core challenge: the strength of the chemical bonds that hold the
molecules in the gel together. Too tight and they are too rigid and basically
become part of the problem. Too loose and the molecules don't hold together
adequately and don't keep the electronic components ­together when they break.
They found a Goldilocks solution, not too tight or too loose, according to the
Nano Letters papers.

"As a material chemist, that is something I'm particularly proud of," said Yu,
who came to UT in 2012.

The gel still is too expensive to mass-produce, and someone has to figure out
how to apply it. Do they paint it onto a component, or dip the component into a
dish of it? Do they apply it during the manufacturing process, or simply when
something seems to have broken?

Yu envisions many potential uses for the gel. He is now talking with UT
colleagues about ways the gel could be used in concert with flexible
electronics. That field focuses on creating materials that are more bendy and
stretchy.

Such technology already has been deployed as a patch, made from materials as
soft and stretchy as skin, that can be applied to someone's epidermis and
monitor vital functions like blood pressure, said Nanshu Lu, a UT researcher who
specializes in flexible electronics.

Another idea in the works, she said: "a subconscious interface" that can control
­prosthetic limbs. In that case, a patch would detect if, say, a chest muscle
moves and convey a signal that would move a prosthetic arm.

The Defense Department announced in August that it will spend $75 million over
five years on a hub in Silicon Valley to manufacture "flexible hybrid
electronics."

One of the central paradoxes in flexible electronics is that inflexible
materials such as metals tend to be far better at conducting electricity than
their more flexible counterparts, thus hindering attempts to make some kinds of
devices more bendy, said Lu, an assistant professor in UT's Department of
Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics.

"Batteries, in particular, are more difficult to make flexible," Lu said.

That is where Yu, whose expertise is in battery research, sees the first
application of the gel.

Flexibility is important in next-generation batteries with ultrahigh capacity
electrodes, he said, because they expand when charged. Despite attempts to make
them withstand quite a bit, they can swell to the point of cracking, which
causes immediate battery failure. Fear of cracking limits how full a battery can
be stuffed and shortens the life of the battery. But one held together by
self-healing gel could both store more energy and last longer, Yu said.

His goal, like many researchers, is to create batteries efficient enough to
store enough energy to power cities. Batteries are not advanced enough now to
make such large-scale storage cost-effective. Thus, communities cannot rely
entirely on solar or wind power, which is not always consistent, and most rely
on coal or natural gas plants, which can be run around the clock but produce
carbon emissions that most climate scientists say contribute to global climate
change.

Better technology might even allow all of that storage to happen inside
electric-car batteries, which many futurists envision powering homes, as well.

"I think the gel can be part of this revolution," Yu said.

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 14, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Pope may stir debate in Texas over immigration

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1191 words


The first European settlers of Texas were Franciscan priests building missions,
including the Alamo, on behalf of Spain. This week, the first pope to share a
namesake saint with the poverty-minded religious order will visit
Ju(degrees)rez, just across the Texas-Mexico border from El Paso.

The presence of Pope Francis, who has advocated for a more compassionate
approach to immigrants in the U.S. and across the globe, will stir the debate
over immigration and border security as the Texas Legislature girds for fights
over issues including banning so-called sanctuary cities and continuing the
state's $800 million effort to police the border.

The unabashedly political pope visits the border at a time when the ranks of
Roman Catholic voters are swelling in a state long dominated by Protestants,
thanks to an influx of Latino residents.

From 1990 to 2008, Catholics jumped from 23 percent to 32 percent of the Texas
population, even as Catholics' share of the U.S. population dropped slightly,
according to the latest American Religious Identification Survey, the largest
and most cited national poll on religion.

According to 2014 data from the Pew Research Center, about 45 percent of Texas
Catholics lean Democratic, and 29 percent Republican. Sixty-four percent favor
bigger government and more services, while 29 percent want less government.

Ju(degrees)rez's mayor invited Republican Gov. Greg Abbott, who is Catholic, and
other Texas officials to attend the pope's visit. Abbott's spokesman John
Wittman said Abbott is unable to attend because he is scheduled to swear in the
education commissioner that day. Land Commissioner George P. Bush, another
high-profile Catholic Republican, did not respond to several requests for
comment and has not said publicly that he is going to see Francis.

Texas won't be completely unrepresented. Democratic state Sens. Jos© Rodriguez,
whose district includes El Paso, and Sylvia Garcia, a Houstonian who chairs the
Hispanic Caucus, said they accepted invitations from the mayor.

Rodriguez, who grew up Catholic, said he stopped practicing years ago but has
felt more connected to the church under Francis.

"I don't mind saying I was separated from the church over different issues, but
this pope gives me a lot to be proud of," he said. "His message is a very strong
one for supporting immigrants and migrants in general and removing barriers that
separate us instead of bind us together."

Garcia said she is Catholic and hopes Francis' trip will help persuade the
governor to pursue policies that are better for immigrants.

"To me, Catholics and Christians by definition are compassionate people, and I
hope that that would be true and we see a more compassionate public policy,"
Garcia said. "The leadership now is so intent on doing some things that are
contrary to what we're going to hear the pope talk about."

Asked what she would say to the pope if she met him in Ju(degrees)rez, Garcia
teared up and said, "Just to thank him for sharing his heart with all of us."

Abbott, as most Republicans, aligns with the church in opposing abortion rights
and gay marriage. But the division between his views on immigration and the
church's was highlighted last year when Texas sued the federal government over
President Barack Obama's executive actions that would, in part, give permanent
legal status to about 4 million unauthorized immigrants.

At the time, Abbott said in the Houston Chronicle, "Like the pope, I'm Catholic,
and I share the faith with the pope. As it concerns the lawsuit, the legal
challenge, it's important to understand the reason why people are attracted to
America in the first place. And that is because our Constitution has made this
country the premier country in the history of the world, and the president
violated the Constitution when he issued his executive order."

Abbott also was at loggerheads with the Catholic bishops of Texas when they
announced in November that Catholic relief agencies would not comply with a
state directive that they stop resettling Syrian refugees in Texas.

"The horrors of modern terrorism are frightening, but they demand from us a
strong renewal of our faith and our commitment to Christian teachings and the
common good," the bishops wrote in a statement. "We firmly believe that it is
possible to maintain security at home while also welcoming refugees."

Despite being the state's third nominally Catholic governor, Abbott is likely
the first true believer to hold the office, said Jeffrey Patterson, executive
director of the Texas Catholic Conference of Bishops. Sam Houston only became
Catholic to gain favor with the Mexican government before Texas gained
independence, and Francis Lubbock converted for his wife before becoming an
Episcopal for his second wife after leaving office, Patterson said.

Patterson's group, which lobbies the state on behalf of Texas' 13 bishops,
supports a pathway to citizenship of unauthorized immigrants and opposes bans on
sanctuary cities - jurisdictions that decline to assist federal immigration
enforcement - among other pro-immigrant positions.

"It's important to realize that the governor of the state of Texas is not the
representative of the Catholic Church in state government," Patterson said.
"Certainly there are issues that we would hope that the governor would listen to
his Catholic faith in pursuing policies, but he's always been open; he's always
been willing to engage the bishops in a dialogue."

Patterson said he's hopeful that the pope's trip to Ju(degrees)rez will change
the dialogue about immigration.

Francis made his first trip to the U.S. in September and gave high-profile
addresses to Congress and the United Nations. He urged leaders to combat
poverty, climate change and wealth inequality and to show compassion for
immigrants and those suffering from hunger and war.

Sean Theriault, a University of Texas political science professor who teaches a
class on politics and the Catholic Church, said the pope's visit to
Ju(degrees)rez is unlikely to change the minds of Texas Republican leaders on
immigration issues but will highlight the fissure Francis has exposed between
Catholic teaching and the party.

"I can't imagine that it's going to have much of an influence on the Texas
Republican Party, but once again this pope is creating lots of headaches for
Republicans because of his views on (immigration) and income inequality,"
Theriault said. "This pope has created much more tension by focusing on the
social gospel, making it much more difficult for either party to claim the
mantle of the Catholic Church as the Republicans did on the issues of abortion
and gay marriage."

Contact Sean Collins Walsh at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @seancwalsh

STAFF COVERAGE
  ON THE SCENE
  American-Statesman photographer Rodolfo Gonzalez and reporters Nicole Chavez
and Marlon Sorto will travel to Ju(degrees)rez, Chihuahua, on Monday to cover
Pope Francis' historic visit to the U.S.-Mexico border on Wednesday. Follow
@nicolechavz, @ahora_si and @statesman for the latest news, photos, video and
live reporting from across the border. Find extended coverage of Francis' visit
 at statesman.com/pope-mexico.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 20, 2016 Friday
                                 State Edition

State water board OKs 50-year plan

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 627 words


The Texas Water Development Board on Thursday approved the state's newest water
plan, basically a road map for how the state will meet its water demands over
the next half-century amid a steady growth in population.

The population boom is expected to be especially acute in the Colorado River
basin, home to Austin and Travis County, as well as parts or all of Bastrop,
Blanco, Burnet, Fayette, Hays and Williamson counties - some of the
fastest-growing areas of the country.

Population in the Colorado River basin is forecast to increase from 1.7 million
people in 2020 to 3.2 million in 2070.

Likewise, annual municipal water consumption in the region is expected to nearly
double over that period, outstripping current supplies by roughly 2050.

The plan is notable for being the first to be truly influenced by the
devastating 2011 drought, which led water planners to rethink the amount of
available supplies.

The basin will have to look for new sources of water, said Jim Barho, a Burnet
County official who is the vice chairman of the Lower Colorado water planning
group, one of the regional groups whose reports formed the basis for the
statewide plan.

Conservation remains "the quickest, easiest way to generate more water," Barho
said, adding that the region will see more emphasis on rainwater harvesting and
on maintaining and restoring old, leaky pipes.

"A lot of systems are over 50 years old," he said.

The region will likely see the construction of several more reservoirs in coming
decades, he said, including one underway by the Lower Colorado River Authority
in Wharton County, about 150 miles downriver of Austin.

In November, the LCRA awarded a $174 million contract to a Tennessee company to
build the reservoir. The idea is to capture some of the water that otherwise
would flow into the Gulf of Mexico, making it available to farmers and industry
while easing demand on the Austin-area reservoirs.

Roughly 2 million cubic yards of material has been moved in that project, said
Karen Bondy, who oversees LCRA water resources, at an LCRA meeting Tuesday. The
reservoir is expected be completed by 2018.

Total water demand in the Lower Colorado River basin is projected to increase 24
percent by 2070, according to the state plan, while statewide water demand is
expected to rise 17 percent.

The plan serves as a guide for the Texas Water Development Board as it decides
how to dole out billions of dollars in low-interest loans in coming decades to
spur the construction of heavy-duty water projects.

"This is the best plan yet, in my view," said Bech Bruun, the state water
board's chairman. "It's the most detailed and comprehensive."

As in previous iterations of the state water plan, the consequences of global
warming aren't explicitly baked into projections. Scientists say the region is
likely to grow drier, with more frequent, intense droughts parching Central
Texas.

Officials with the Environmental Defense Fund told the board that there is no
indication that climate models were used systematically in developing regional
water plans.

But state officials said the water plan gets updated every five years to fold in
information from the latest droughts - such as the dire one that began in 2011
before finally ending this year.

"There are currently no forecasting tools capable of providing reliable
estimates of changes to future water resources in Texas at the resolution needed
for water planning," water board spokeswoman Kimberly Leggett said.

The state "continues to collect data and work with regional planning groups to
consider potential ways to improve estimates of water supply reliability in the
face of drought. This includes monitoring climate policy and science," Leggett
said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 3, 2016 Monday
                                 State Edition

Check out 'Westworld,' 'Boyhood' and Green Day in October

BYLINE: Joe Gross American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1019 words


Here are some of the best new releases in books, music, movies and more on the
horizon in October. Take a look at the Statesman pop culture blog Check It Out
at culture.blog.austin360.com for weekly updates featuring even more albums,
movies, books, comics and TV shows. As always, dates are subject to change
without notice.

1. "Westworld" (HBO). Jonathan Nolan (who co-wrote "The Dark Knight") and Lisa
Joy (who worked on "Burn Notice"), along with producer J.J. Abrams, reboot,
"Galactica"-style, Michael Crichton's dark, corny 1973 film starring Yul Brenner
into an HBO series about a futuristic NSFW "amusement park" full of A.I.s that
would never, ever think of murdering the customers, right? RIGHT? Starring
Anthony Hopkins (in his first-ever ongoing TV role, which says something about
TV's cultural sway right now), Ed Harris, Evan Rachel Wood, James Marsden,
Jeffrey Wright, Thandie Newton, Tessa Thompson and Sidse Babett Knudsen. (That
is quite a cast.) Look for a fair amount of controversy in re: violence against
women, which, given "Game of Thrones," might just be a thing with HBO now. The
first season is slated for 10 episodes. Let's see how this goes. (Sunday nights;
first episode aired Oct. 2)

2. "Timeless" (NBC). There are three time travel shows debuting this season
(Google "Time After Time" and "Making History" for more info) and, as someone
who never gets tired of alternate Earths, alternate histories, changes to the
timeline, or timey-wimey stuff in general, I could not be happier. From Eric
Kripke ("Supernatural," which was a smash, and "Revolution," which nobody cared
about) and Shawn Ryan ("The Shield," which ruled) comes this story of a baddie
(what's up, Goran Visnjic) who absconds with a time machine intent on changing
the past to wreck America.

He must be stopped! With Matt Lanter, Abigail Spencer and Malcolm Barrett. Man,
I still miss "Voyagers!" Someone reboot "Voyagers!" (Oct. 3)

3. Brookzill!, "Throwback to the Future" (Tommy Boy). Hello, 1990s.
Game-changing producer Prince Paul joins Ladybug Mecca (of Digable Planets),
Rodrigo Brandão and Don Newkirk for a blend of old-school, sample-based East
Coast hip-hop and Brazilian music. (Oct. 7)

4. Green Day, "Revolution Radio" (Reprise). They are apparently back to making
short, sharp shocks. Remember when they were supposed to be a total pan-flash?
(Oct. 7)

5. Norah Jones, "Day Breaks" (Blue Note). She keeps on keepin' on. Guests
include Wayne Shorter and Lonnie Smith. (Oct. 7)

6. Loretta Lynn, "White Christmas Blue" (Legacy Recordings). Lynn has been
around so long that you can say things such as this is her first album of
seasonal songs in 50 years. (Oct. 7)

7. Meshuggah, "The Violent Sleep of Reason" (Nuclear Blast). Complicated,
thunderous, extremely extreme technical death metal. Very few do it better.
(Oct. 7)

8. Pitbull, "Climate Change" (Mr.305 / Polo Grounds Music / RCA). Remember when
this dude used to be kind of hard? That was weird. With Jennifer Lopez, R.
Kelly, Robin Thicke, Joe Perry and many, many more. (Oct. 7)

9. "The Birth of a Nation." The story of this Sundance sensation, which tells
the tale of Nat Turner's slave revolt, became much more complicated after it
became commonly known that director Nate Parker had been acquitted of a rape,
and his screenwriter convicted of one, a conviction that was later overturned;
the woman involved committed suicide in 2012. (Oct. 7)

10. "The Girl on the Train" It was only a matter of time before Paula Hawkins'
bestselling thriller hit the big screen. Tate "The Help" Taylor directs Emily
Blunt as Rachel, who may or may not have seen a brutal crime. (Oct. 7)

11. "The General vs. the President: MacArthur and Truman at the Brink of Nuclear
War" by H.W. Brands (Doubleday). The Austin historian breaks down one of the
most dangerous periods of 20th-century American history. (Oct. 11)

12. "Boyhood: The Criterion Collection" (Criterion). It was only a matter of
time, really.

With a 2K digital transfer, supervised by Austin director Richard Linklater, a
new audio commentary featuring Linklater and nine members of the film's cast and
crew, a new documentary chronicling the film's production, a new discussion
featuring Linklater and actors Patricia Arquette and Ellar Coltrane, moderated
by producer John Pierson, a new conversation between Coltrane and actor Ethan
Hawke, a new video essay by critic Michael Kore-sky about time in Linklater's
films, an essay by the great Jonathan Lethem and more. (Oct. 11)

13. Darkthrone, "Arctic Thunder" (Peaceville). Magnificent black metal from some
of the best in the game. Drummer Gylve Fenris Nagell, aka Fenriz, was recently
elected councilman of Kolbotn, Norway. No, really. (Oct. 14)

14. Big Star, "Complete Third" (Omnivore Recordings). A three-CD set of Big
Star's "Third," one of the most intense rock albums ever pressed. Features 69
total tracks, 29 of which are previously unheard sessions, demos and alternate
mixes made by producer Jim Dickinson and engineer John Fry. (Oct. 18)

15. "Black Mirror" (Netflix). The fantastic British sci-fi anthology - think
"The Twilight Zone" for the Trump era - heads to Netflix for a third season.
Expect six new episodes in total. (Oct. 21)

16. "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend" (The CW). One of the best sitcoms of the 2010s
returns! (Oct. 21)

17. Leonard Cohen, "You Want It Darker" (Columbia). Lord, that is a fantastic
title. In his dotage, perhaps thanks to a manager who stole a lot of his money,
Cohen has become rather prolific. (Oct. 21).

18. Lady Gaga, "Joanne" (Streamline/ Interscope). It's likely that not even
producer Mark Ronson can return her to her former glory, but it will be
interesting to see him try. (Oct. 21)

19. Neil Diamond, "Acoustic Christmas" (Capitol). The Jewish Elvis is still out
there, making that music. Mazel tov, Santa! (Oct. 28)

20. "Inferno." The third movie in the Dan Brown series, following "The Da Vinci
Code" and "Angels & Demons," wherein Tom Hanks again plays Dr. Robert Langdon
and Ron Howard directs him once again (likely) giving a whole lot of exposition
about vast conspiracies. (Oct. 28)

Contact Joe Gross at 512-912-5926.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 14, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Cruz woos religious voters in S. Carolina

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1848 words


GREENVILLE, S.C. - It was bright and early on Friday morning at Tommy's Country
Ham House, and while snow was beginning to flurry outside, Glenn Beck, the
popular conservative broadcaster and commentator, told the packed house that the
political and religious climate in South Carolina is entirely different than in
New Hampshire.

"In New Hampshire, you can't talk about God," said Beck. Too bad, he said,
because "this is not a political election, this is a God event."

The choice - God's choice - could not be plainer.

There's Donald Trump - "a game show host."

"It's obvious that guy has never opened a Bible," Beck said. "It's obvious by
the way he's lived his life."

And then there's Ted Cruz.

"He was a freak growing up. He was 13 years old memorizing the Constitution,"
which, along with the Bible, Beck said, was Cruz's "sacred text."

"This is the guy that God has raised up from birth, and while we were all
standing in Washington marching, while we were all saying, â  Jeez, where are we
going to find a leader like this? We might have to raise him ourselves; it might
be one of our children, but it's going to be too late for our children,' God was
raising this man up without us knowing it," Beck said.

"Now it's up to us, and that's why I'm here, and that's why you're here," Beck
said, instructing his rapt audience to go out and spread the word. "You have to
speak to people in Biblical terms, because you still speak that language here,
and this is a God event."

It was the passion of evangelical voters that carried the junior U.S. senator
from Texas to victory over Trump in the Iowa caucuses Feb. 1, and his prospects
in Saturday's critical South Carolina primary depend on rallying evangelical
voters to upend the polls and defy history.

"Cruz is hoping to change the calculus for evangelicals in South Carolina. He is
hoping they will coalesce, which normally they won't," said Scott Huffmon, a
political scientist at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, S.C.

"One candidate may have a greater percentage of the evangelicals, but they tend
to spread themselves out just like other voters," Huffmon said of past South
Carolina primaries.

"Cruz needs to make South Carolina evangelicals behave a little bit more like
Iowa caucus evangelicals."

The God game

As in Iowa, Ted Cruz is running for president on the strength not just of his
ground game but of his God game.

Cruz's standard campaign speech is studded with quotes from Scripture and
appeals to prayer. He fashions his campaign as benefiting from a new "revival"
and "awakening" that is rallying Christian conservatives to his cause, just in
time to pull America back from "the abyss."

He is frequently introduced in ways that suggest that he is God's anointed
candidate.

He finished his day Friday by reciting, as he regularly does, 2 Chronicles 7:14,
only this time in the spotlight before 14,000 cheering Christians just before
the start of the Winter Jam Christian Concert at the Bon Secours Wellness Arena
in Greenville: "If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble
themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I
will hear their prayers from heaven and forgive their sins and I will heal their
land."

"I can't think of a candidate who has been so bold and so confident in the fact
that God is on his side and that he is going to reclaim all these areas of
culture as Ted Cruz," said John Fea, a professor of history at Pennsylvania's
Messiah College. "He talks with this kind of deep confidence that I think has
drawn from his sort of spiritual, religious upbringing and context."

But even against a rival like Trump, so easily caricatured as the candidate of
mammon, Cruz has his work cut out for him.

In Iowa, according to entrance polls conducted by Edison Media Research for the
National Election Pool, 64 percent of Republican caucusgoers were evangelical.
Cruz won 34 percent of that vote to 22 percent for Trump and 21 percent for U.S.
Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida.

The latest polls in South Carolina show Trump, winner of Tuesday's New Hampshire
primary, holding a 17-point lead, according to the RealClear Politics polling
average. Among evangelicals - 57 percent of the South Carolina electorate -
Trump led Cruz, 33 percent to 25 percent, according to the most recent
NBC/WSJ/Marist poll.

The challenge for Cruz, Huffmon said, is that evangelicals tend to vote for
candidates not based on their relative religious virtue but based on the voter's
other preferences, as long as that candidate meets their minimum threshold of
Christian faith.

Trump may have flubbed it when he cited "Two Corinthians" instead of "Second
Corinthians" speaking at Liberty University, the world's largest Christian
university, before the Iowa caucuses. But it was Trump, and not Cruz - who
announced his candidacy for president at Liberty last March - who walked away
with the endorsement of Liberty's president, Jerry Falwell Jr., who campaigned
for Trump in Iowa.

"Jimmy Carter is a great Sunday school teacher, but the divorced and remarried
Hollywood actor Ronald Reagan saved this nation when it was in nearly the same
condition as it is today," Falwell wrote in The Washington Post of his
endorsement of Trump.

And, Huffmon notes, the last winner of the South Carolina primary was the
thrice-married Newt Gingrich.

Theologically, Huffmon said, an evangelical voter can easily justify voting for
a personally flawed candidate by noting that "God didn't choose perfect people.
He chose Rahab the prostitute and Matthew the tax collector. These were all
imperfect people."

"As long as they look at somebody and that person pays homage to their Christian
belief or heritage, it gives them free rein to support the candidate of their
choice politically, and they will," Huffmon said. "Cruz wants to change that,
and his ability to defeat Trump here depends on it."

â  Nobody's perfect'

Cruz and Ben Carson spoke Thursday night at the Carolina Values Summit at
Winthrop University, along with former U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania,
who dropped out of the race after Iowa but appeared on behalf of Rubio, whom he
has endorsed.

Trump was not represented. But in his closing comments, Harry R. Jackson Jr., a
Pentecostal bishop from Maryland who convened the summit, echoed Falwell,
without endorsing Trump.

"We all know people in our lifetimes who claim to be great teachers and
believers, who taught Sunday school, but they didn't do such a good job as a
president," Jackson said. What is needed is a president who can "lead with
vigor, authority and clarity."

"God sometimes uses people who don't know him right now but who have been put
forth, set up to make a difference," Jackson said.

At a Faith and Family Forum at Bob Jones University on Friday, Cruz, Rubio,
Carson and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush all talked about their spiritual life.

Between the appearances by Rubio and Cruz, Mark Burns, a pastor from Easley who
is the CEO of a Christian broadcasting network, bounded to the stage to speak
for Trump.

"His ideals are from the word of God," Burns said, but "nobody's perfect."

"I don't trust anybody who doesn't make any mistakes," Burns said.

"That was really odd," said Wendy Tucker, who came to the event with her mother
and five children, ages 5 to 13, whom she home-schools in nearby Anderson
County.

There are no Trump fans in the Tucker household.

"Really, a lot of it is his language," Tucker said. "I like to take my children
to events, and I can't take them to a Trump event. It might seem petty, but it's
a factor for me."

By contrast, Tucker, a minister's daughter, found Cruz's personal testimony of
coming to Christ at age 8 compelling.

And her two oldest children - Chandler, 13, and Jackson, 12 - were inspired by
Cruz to begin memorizing the Constitution. So far, they've got the preamble
down.

"They were just really intrigued by that - â  if he could do it, we should try
to do it,' " Tucker said. "They want their friends to do it as well. So he's
inspiring a younger generation to be more interested in the Constitution, and I
love that. I love that he's encouraging my children."

Worried about Trump

In the afterglow of the Beck event at Tommy's in Greenville, Diane Hardy, a
conservative activist who is on Cruz's statewide leadership team, admitted she
is baffled by the number of solid Christian conservatives who say they will vote
for Trump.

"I'm just worried about this Donald Trump thing," she said.

She is talking with Bobby Dill, a retired Air Force colonel who publishes a
conservative Greenville weekly, The Times Examiner.

"I intend to vote for Cruz," Dill said. But: "I'm encouraging Trump because
without him we wouldn't be stirring up a lot of these issues. Trump has been the
catalyst to opening up issues in South Carolina that the party cronies don't
want to deal with."

As Tommy's empties, Tommy Dimsdale, 24, and Marcus Strickland, 28, two of the
Cruz super PAC's top canvassers in Spartanburg, are calling several Cruz
supporters whose doors they knocked on to schedule a drop-by by Beck that
afternoon.

Dimsdale admits his head was initially turned by Trump.

"I liked Donald Trump when he first came out. I liked how bombastic Trump was. I
liked his bravado, and I thought America needs that kind of attitude back
again," Dimsdale said.

But as he looked deeper he turned to Cruz.

"He's been living conservative values for a long time," Dimsdale said. "I can't
say that Donald Trump is a bad person, but I don't think that God and the
Constitution come into his mind on a normal basis."

"We're a religious people, and that's not the only metric that you look at, but
that is one of them, and I think even if you're not a Christian you look at
someone who believes they will be held accountable for what they do, for the
decisions they make, to a higher power" and find comfort in that, Strickland
said.

"Even if you don't like people bringing their religion into politics, for Cruz
it is about promoting liberty, and it's about taking the chains of government
off people so they are able to live a life that's godly, and I think anybody can
agree with that, regardless of what your religious beliefs are," he said.

Could Cruz and his campaign's overt religiosity hurt him?

Maybe elsewhere, but not in South Carolina, said Huffmon.

"It's not going to turn anybody off here," he said.

At Tommy's, Beck's dire warnings were met with gasps, amens and applause.

"You let this go another four to eight years, there will be bloody revolution in
the streets," Beck warned.

But the night before, Beck was trumped by Tony Perkins, another luminary of the
Christian right who, in introducing Beck at a Cruz rally at MorningStar
Fellowship Church in Fort Mill, S.C., predicted not chaos but a coming
totalitarian calm if Cruz loses.

"We don't have the latitude to get it wrong one more time," Perkins said. "If we
don't elect a bold, courageous, godly leader in this next election, I'm afraid
we may not have another election for our republic. That's not hyperbole. That's
the reality based upon what this president's policies have done to this nation."

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 22, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Austin loses out in bid for Smart City grant

BYLINE: Ben Wear American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 511 words


Austin's Year of Mobility won't be getting a $40 million assist from the feds.

Columbus, Ohio, edged out Austin and five other finalists for the Smart City
Challenge grant, the Columbus Dispatch and other media reported Tuesday. The
office of U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, issued a statement Tuesday confirming
that the home team had won.

Federal officials are expected to make the official announcement Thursday during
a visit to Columbus, the newspaper reported. Columbus' pitch for the grant might
have been boosted by what the city said was a pledge of $90 million in local
matching money, including $19 million in public funds.

While the U.S. Department of Transportation has not confirmed the winner, it
issued a statement midday Tuesday emphasizing that all seven finalists - not
just the winning city - will get the support of the agency and tech industry
leaders to "move forward with ideas that each city developed over the past six
months."

Vulcan Inc., a company founded by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, pledged up to
another $10 million to help the winning city convert some of its fleet to
electric vehicles. The U.S. Department of Transportation said Tuesday that
Vulcan "will lead the effort to bring in other philanthropists to provide
additional funding to support the climate and electrification efforts of all
seven cities, and beyond."

The agency said other federal departments, such as the U.S. Department of
Energy, would collaborate with all seven cities to assist with modeling and
planning efforts to improve transportation networks. The release said the
federal government will "focus resources" on the runner-up cities but did not
specifically promise funding.

The other finalists were Denver; Kansas City, Mo.; Pittsburgh; Portland, Ore.;
and San Francisco.

Mayor Steve Adler, who had spent considerable time and effort pushing for
Austin's bid over the past few months, declined to comment Tuesday. But the
mayor had said during the competition that the city would move forward with the
elements of the plan it submitted, win or lose, subject to finding the money
locally.

The competition challenged midsized cities to propose tech-oriented solutions to
their transportation problems, with improvements that are mindful of reducing
greenhouse gases and providing greater opportunities to disadvantaged
communities.

Austin's pitch envisioned traffic signals that automatically adjust their timing
in response to changing traffic conditions. Other elements included converting
city government vehicles and taxis to electric cars, deploying driverless
vehicles at the airport and creating an all-inclusive "mobility pass" that
provides access to everything from Capital Metro buses to ride-hailing services
to rental B-Cycles bikes.

Making the city's final presentation June 9, Adler noted that Austin is the most
economically segregated city in the country but also one of the most tech-savvy,
making the timing perfect to transform the city.

"We're a city that's all about innovation," he said then.

Contact Ben Wear

at 512-445-3698.

Twitter: @bwear

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 6, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Salamander habitat work likely to cost $1.7 million

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 779 words


A narrow 75-foot-long waterway that will create new habitat for an endangered
salamander will cost the city of Austin roughly $1.7 million, or more than five
times than city staffers originally estimated.

The project - the resurrection of a small stream to link Eliza Spring and Barton
Springs Pool - is a way to show the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that the city
is serious about protecting the endangered Barton Springs salamander even as it
allows humans to swim in the salamanders' protected habitat.

The estimated cost - roughly $7,000 per square foot - has soared because of the
sensitive nature of the area, city officials said.

City staffers are currently sorting through construction bids and will present a
winner to the City Council in late summer; construction is due to begin in the
fall and will not interrupt swimming at Barton Springs.

The stream would cut through a sloped grassy area on the north side of the pool
used by sunbathers before spilling into a bypass culvert just beside the pool.
Running about 3 feet wide, the stream would likely be bordered by limestone
blocks for several more feet on its east and west sides.

City officials want to unearth a long-buried link between Eliza Spring - the
sunken, fenced-off amphitheater that is home to about 300 Barton Springs
salamanders - and Barton Springs pool as part of a wider deal with officials at
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The city has promised to improve conditions
for the Barton Springs salamander and the Austin blind salamander so that people
can continue to swim in the iconic pool, which is a habitat for the endangered
species.

Nearly a century ago, flow from Eliza Spring was enclosed in a concrete and
metal pipe as part of a landscaping effort. Officials at the city's watershed
protection department say the concrete and metal environment does not make for
an ideal salamander habitat - and that the pipe is now 60 percent blocked.

City officials weighed simply replacing the pipe - a cheaper option - but
instead opted to revert to an open stream. Officials say re-creating the stream
would enhance the salamander habitat, improving the potential for long-term
recovery of the species. The stream itself would be protected by some sort of
fencing material.

"A future changing climate will increase drought stress for the salamanders, and
this will give them the best chance to persist in the future," said Chris
Herrington, an Austin environmental scientist overseeing the project.

More significantly, perhaps, is that the project helps the city continue to
operate the endangered species habitat as a swimming pool.

The pool consistently draws nearly 600,000 people a year, netting about $200,000
to $400,000 annually for the city's general fund.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials did not mandate the open stream option,
Herrington said, but it will "mitigate impact on the species to allow us to
continue using Barton Springs as a human resource."

Design for the project, by the engineering company HDR, alone has amounted to
about $475,000; construction is expected to come to nearly $900,000. A variety
of fees could push the total tally up to about $1.7 million, Herrington said.

The project is "costing a lot more than we had anticipated," he said.

He said doing work in a flood plain, in an endangered species habitat, in a
historic, recreational structure - a project with very low tolerance for risk,
given the proximity of swimmers and construction - led to the cost increases.

"The increase in cost is something that did give us some concern, but we still
think we're doing the right thing," he said. "This is a more environmentally
appropriate solution, one that we can also use for educational purposes."

Some city-budget watchers are dubious about the project.

"Going in there with a bunch of equipment, they'll probably die or go away,"
said Dani Tristan, a commercial real estate broker who works on Barton Springs
Road.

Tristan said swimming in Barton Springs Pool will never be barred for species
protection.

"I'd rather see us spend half a million in breeding them or growing them than
creating a thing that may or may not work," he said. "If we want to keep them
alive, let's throw them in a tank and put some Viagra in there and see what
happens."

He said at roughly $20,000 a linear foot, the project could practically be
"gold-plated."

The City Council could make a final decision on the project by late summer. The
project should be completed by March 2017.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Expanding salamander habitat
  Austin officials say a plan to connect Eliza Spring to Barton Springs Pool
with a small stream could cost $1.7 million.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 17, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Lobby leader to step down

BYLINE: Tim Eaton American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 300 words


Bill Hammond, the CEO and most recognizable face of the Texas Association of
Business, will leave his post on Dec. 31, the organization said Tuesday.

Hammond, 68, has spent nearly 19 years leading the Texas Association of
Business, one of the most powerful lobbying groups in Texas.

"When I took this job, I said I wanted to spend less time with my family,"
Hammond joked. But now, he said, he intends to spend more time with his wife,
documentary filmmaker Deborah Hammond, and plans enjoy a slower pace of life.

"I just decided it was time for change," Hammond said.

He has advocated for multi national corporations and small businesses alike to
create a pro-business environment and a reasonable regulatory climate in Texas.

Looking forward, Hammond said he will open his own lobbying shop.

As a contract lobbyist in the 2017 legislative session, Hammond said he plans to
focus largely on education - an issue he championed as a GOP member of the Texas
House from 1983 to 1991 and as head of the Texas Association of Business, where
he pushed for a more educated workforce in Texas.

He also plans to work on taxes, economic development and health care issues.

As for a list of new clients, Hammond said it is too early to say.

"I just announced my retirement," he said. "Give me a couple of days."

Bill Miller, a lobbyist and co-founder of HillCo Partners, has known Hammond
since he was in the Legislature representing Lakewood in east Dallas.

He called Hammond a "good guy and strong leader" who was always professional,
smart and fair.

"Whoever his successor is has big shoes to fill," Miller said. "He's a great
model to do the right thing in the right way."

The Texas Association of Business said it will form a search a search committee
to find a replacement for Ham mond.

Contact Tim Eaton

at 512-445-3631.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 30, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Refrigerator recycling program ends in Austin after 11 years

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 408 words


Declaring victory in a years-long effort to get antiquated, energy-guzzling
refrigerators out of Austin homes, Austin Energy announced Thursday that it has
ended a recycling program targeting the appliances.

Officials at the city-owned utility said that over the course of the recycling
program's 11 years, more than 35,000 inefficient refrigerators and freezers were
collected from customers.

Older, inefficient units use as much as three times the electricity used by a
new appliance.

The recycled refrigerators "will never waste a single kilowatt-hour of
electricity again," Debbie Kimberly, the utility's vice-president of customer
energy solutions, said in a news release.

"Our customers have also recycled these appliances responsibly by not filling up
our landfills or allowing their ozone-depleting refrigerants to be released into
the air," she said.

With federal rules forcing manufacturers over the past two decades to increase
refrigerator and freezer efficiency, the utility said its goal was to remove
pre-1993 models.

A 2013 refrigerator uses about half as much electricity as a 1990 model,
according to data from the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.

"We were seeing fewer and fewer of them as the years went on," Kimberly said.
"The program worked."

Austin Energy started the program in 2005 and offered a $50 rebate for old but
working appliances.

An Austin Energy contractor picked up the appliance and recycled 98 percent of
the parts and materials.

Much of the program's cost was related to the disposal of chlorofluorocarbons,
which were used for decades as a component in refrigerators and, if released
into the atmosphere, can harm the ozone layer.

They are also among the greenhouse gases associated with global warming.

The program had cost the city about $140 per refrigerator recycled, with roughly
$90 going to the picking up, dismantling and processing of the appliances as
well as administrative costs and profit for the contractors.

"This program reflected the values of our customers and our community," Kimberly
said. "Our customers have made a lasting, positive change that will benefit this
community for many years to come."

Paul Robbins, editor of the Austin Environmental Directory, said the decision to
end the program made sense from an energy-savings perspective. But, he added, he
was concerned about the responsible disposal of refrigerants in the future.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 15, 2016 Thursday
                                 State Edition

'Miss Sloane' goes to Washington

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 955 words


WASHINGTON - You can't help but notice something when you stand next to Jessica
Chastain: She's kind of short.

The 39-year-old actress, two-time Oscar nominee and 2017 Golden Globe nominee,
who has made a name for herself playing such strong characters as the CIA
analyst tracking Osama bin Laden in "Zero Dark Thirty" and the mutinous
commander of a space mission in "The Martian," is, at 5-foot-4, considerably
less imposing in person than she often appears on the screen.

Meeting at a Washington hotel in October to talk about her new film, "Miss
Sloane," in which she stars as an uncompromising yet morally compromised D.C.
lobbyist, Chastain laughs at the observation, saying only, in understatement,
"Most of my characters are very different from me."

In preparation for playing ElizabethSloane,aninfluence peddler who jumps ship
from her high-powered agency when it takes on a pro-gun client and goes to work
for a rival firm on the gun-control side, Chastain shadowed and interviewed 11
female lobbyists. Among her discoveries: The power suits and heels are a "battle
uniform." Pill popping, which her character indulges in, is not unheard of. And
black nail polish - as seven of the 11 women wore - is a thing. "What does that
say aboutyou?"Chastainwonders aloud. "That you're polished,
badass,hardandstrong,powerful - and maybe not traditionally feminine."

Many of Chastain's roles offer a mix of the tough and the tender, or what "Miss
Sloane" director John Madden, in a separate interview, calls "the formidable and
the flawed." It's why the British filmmaker ("Shakespeare in Love") says he cast
Chastain, when she was not yet a household name, in 2010's
"TheDebt"asayoungMossad agent. After that, both Madden and Chastain were looking
for a chance to collaborate again.

"Miss Sloane," whose hero has chinks in her suit of armor,
wasseenastheperfectvehicle. "I needed someone who can command the verbal
dexterity, the speed, the ferocity of this character," says Madden, "at the same
time as offering the kind of fragility that Jessica always has about her."

Chastain's meticulous advance work on the role, during which she says she
inadvertently overheard such improprieties as an offer of free travel from a
lobbyist to a Senate staffer, was matched by Madden's own fidelity to
verisimilitude. The Glover Park Group, a D.C. communications and government
relations firm, served as meticulous consultants, at one point entailing
last-minute changes to the screenplay.

"We had a piece of wrong information in the script," Maddensays,"aboutwhether
the congressional gift ban applied to sovereign states," a critical plot point.
"It was veryimportantthattheunderpinnings be as real and correct as they could
be. That little discovery necessitated some intense and productive script
surgery."

The character of Elizabeth was loosely inspired by Jack Abramoff, according to
Madden. Although Chastain read the disgraced lobbyist's
memoir,"CapitolPunishment,"she says she was more influenced by the determination
of her own agent, Hylda Queally, whom Chastain has watched fight for her.

"Idoalotofresearchbefore I get to set," the actress says, "before I ever say a
word. I'm very intuitive, but I also create a lot of backstory. I look at a
script like a detective.

"Sloane says to Jake Lacy (who plays a male escort used by Chastain's
character), 'I grew up lying. I didn't want to. I had to. That's why I excel at
it.' I thought about the pills. Why is she taking on the unwinnable case? Is it
career sabotage? All that led me to a tale about addiction, inside the realm of
the political process and the gun debate. The subplot of 'Miss Sloane' is that
of a character who is addicted to winning."

When it comes to discussing where they stand on the gun debate, both Madden and
Chastain, who has never shied away from speaking out on such progressive issues
as sexism and ageism in Hollywood, deflected the question, arguing that "Miss
Sloane" is meant to be provocative entertainment,notapolemic.

"It's not my place to stand there and be saying, as an
outsider,thatthisiswhatyoupeople here in the States should be doing," says
Madden.

At the same time, he notes, he is not trying to equivocate either. "The film's
job is not to be fair to both sides of a political argument. It's to be fair to
both sides of a dramatic argument."

For her part, Chastain - whose character is a Republican, by the way - says the
film's subject has less to do with the merits of either side's argument than
with the fact that guns are a convenient way into far more troubling questions.

"Miss Sloane" could never have been made about the so-called Nutella tax,
Chastain jokes, citing the term the film uses for the wonky debate on palm oil
imports thatopensthemovie."Where someone stands on the gun debate isn't even the
question people should be asking about this film," she continues. "It could be
climate change, immigration, abortion. But something is broken in D.C. I didn't
know that senators and congressmen will sometimes go to three fundraisers every
single day - breakfast, lunch and cocktails or dinner - just to make enough
money to keep their seat in office."

In that regard, Chastain seems to be angling for an A-plus on the homework she
has done on the way Washington works (or doesn't). "I hope the film will open a
discussion," she says, "because from the outside, it feels like money is pouring
in here, yet nothing gets done."

"Miss Sloane" isn't a documentary, Chastain says, adding that she nevertheless
hopes it's real enough so thatpeopleinsideandoutside the Beltway will recognize
the city it's set in. "I want to be in a film where people who work on and off
Capitol Hill will see it and say, 'OK, that's not just all complete fiction.'"

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 6, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

COMMUNITY NEWS

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 764 words


TRAVIS COUNTY

SOUTH AUSTIN

Barton Springs Pool meeting set

The city of Austin Parks and Recreation Department will have a public meeting
about the Zilker Park Improvement Projects at Barton Springs on Saturday.

A draft recommendations presentation will be given from 2 to 4 p.m. at the
Zilker Botanical Gardens, 2220 Barton Springs Road.

A series of meetings were held starting in November to gather public input about
the project to help shape the improvements, which will include the
rehabilitation of the bathhouse at the Barton Springs Pool and existing
facilities.

For more information about the Zilker Park Improvement Projects at Barton
Springs, visit austintexas.gov/zilkerimprovements or call the Austin Parks and
Recreation public information office at 512-974-6723.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SOUTH AUSTIN

Butler Park focus of meeting

The Austin Parks and Recreation Department, in partnership with its design
consultant, TBG Partners, will have its second in a series of meetings about the
proposed Alliance Children's Garden in Butler Park on Thursday.

The meeting will be from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at the Palmer Events Center, 900
Barton Springs Road. Information about the project will be shared and feedback
gathered. It will be a family friendly event with activities for children.

More information is available on the project website at
austintexas.gov/alliancechildrensgarden; visitors to the site can also find a
link to an online survey.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

PFLUGERVILLE

Visit library for advice on clutter

The Pflugerville Public Library will host "Clear the Clutter with Luba Carlson"
to help residents who resolved to get organized in the new year.

Carlson, a professional organizer, will give the presentation from 6 to 7 p.m.
Thursday in the Poppy/Cosmos rooms of the library, at 1008

W. Pfluger St. The event is for ages 18 and older.

For more information on this and other library programs, visit
pflugervilletx.gov/ library.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

BEE CAVE

Help knitting club refugee effort

The Bee Cave Public Library Knitting Club invites knitters and crocheters to
join club members in a charity event.

The knitting club is participating in a global initiative called 25,000 Tuques,
and will be crafting warm hats for Syrian refugees arriving in Canada by the end
of February.

The charity knit-in is set for Thursday from 7 to 9 p.m. at the library, 4000
Galleria Parkway.

There will be easy-to-use looms available for those who do not know how to knit
but would like to participate. For those unable to attend the event, donations
of knitted hats can be dropped off to the library by the end of January. See
on.fb.me/1JpZk0F for more information.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

BRUSHY CREEK MUD

Join advisory committees

Residents of the Brushy Municipal Utility District are encouraged to contribute
some time and effort on several advisory committees.

Committee members share the vision and mission of the district, and work to
maintain excellence. They meet monthly, and meetings are generally listed on the
monthly MUD calendar that is distributed with billing statements.

The MUD parks and recreation committee advises on all issues related to the
district's parks and greenbelts. This group generally meets at 7 p.m. on the
first Monday of each month at the community center, 16318 Great Oaks Drive.

The water and wastewater committee is also a citizen advisory group, and meets
as announced.

The community center advisory committee discusses and promotes programs and
activities. The group usually meets on the second Monday of each month.

To qualify, individuals must own taxable land within the district or reside
within the district.

If you are interested, contact the MUD at 512-255-7871 or bcmud.org for more
information.

- GWEN KING, ROUND ROCK LEADER CONTRIBUTING WRITER

BASTROP COUNTY

BASTROP

Concert to benefit recovery effort

The Bastrop County Long Term Recovery Team is hosting a fundraiser, "Standing
Together Through Fire and Rain, at the Bastrop Convention & Exhibit Center, 1408
Chestnut St., from 5:30 to 10:30 p.m. Saturday.

The benefit concert will feature country music favorites Asleep at the Wheel,
celebrating the music of Bob Wills and his Texas Playboys. The come-and-go event
includes dinner by Baxters, dancing and a cash bar. Haybale with Dallas Wayne
will also perform.

The organization will use the funds raised to help Bastrop County residents
affected by the Hidden Pines fire and/or flooding during Memorial Day weekend
and Halloween. Tickets are $100 and can be purchased at
bastropcountylongtermrecovery.org.

- BASTROP ADVERTISER STAFF

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Rewinding SXSW Interactive: Obamas, VR and 'Mr. Robot'

BYLINE: Omar L. Gallaga American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1224 words


There I was on a platform, seated in a movie theater-style chair and strapped
with a seat belt as I pulled the headset over my head and wrapped it around my
face. The Samsung Gear VR device was in place; I fiddled with the focus and
wiggled my cheeks to get the best view.

Then the roller coaster ride started. The 4D platform activated, moving and
shaking the row of seats, which never left the ground. Me and my fellow VR
riders climbed up the Six Flags coaster and soon made the initial drop, our arms
raised, our stomachs dropping. It was a convincing, if slightly low-res,
approximation of reality, enough to provoke a physical reaction, a "Wow!" moment
and then, queasily, an immediate desire to return to terra firma.

That's South by Southwest Interactive in a nutshell for me. The annual tech
conference, where Samsung's VR roller-coaster sim was housed across the Austin
Convention Center at the space normally known as Michelada's Cafe y Cantina, is
its own kind of reality. It's also a festival that exists largely based on where
your head is pointed. So much goes on the festival, from the trade show to the
hundreds of panels to parties, large-scale media installations, free food and
intimate tech demos that run late into the night that a SXSW experience is
highly personal, completely custom.

Big themes do emerge: This year, virtual reality seemed less like a gimmick and
more like a mainstream future. The FBI's efforts to thwart Apple encryption was
a fresh, hot topic on many panels, including the historic festival keynote with
President Barack Obama on Friday.

The wristband fitness wearables that were so hot last year, including the Apple
Watch, were largely absent in the buzz, replaced by talk of sensors embedded in
clothing and medical tech innovation that goes way beyond digital pedometers.

I couldn't be everywhere I wanted to be at SXSW Interactive, but I tried to be
in as many places as possible over five long days and nights.

Here's where my head was pointed for most of it:

Virtual reality: The masses are waiting. Samsung made a big push at the festival
not only for its new phones, which it was selling in a pop-up store downtown,
but for its much-refined Gear VR headset, which it's been giving away for free
to phone buyers. The virtual roller coaster installation was one of the most
talked-about demos at the fest and the line outside to try the ride never waned
through all of Interactive. It also rode, so to speak, news that Six Flags is
introducing the use of virtual-reality headsets to actual roller coasters. A
Samsung representative assured me the headsets have been tested to make sure
they don't fly off mid-ride, but I'm still getting over the idea of having my
face covered while my body is hurtling on a real coaster.

It was only one of many places to experience VR that also included a McDonald's
virtual Happy Meal Loft (I'm not making that up), lots of well-attended panels
about virtual and augmented reality, and a whole extra track of panels and an
"Experience" that started on Wednesday, the day after Interactive concluded. You
could even try VR on the street.

The technology, which could still face a backlash when it gets into the hands of
those who aren't early adopters, is becoming a plaything for filmmakers, game
developers and even retailers who want to wow customers. One VR developer I
spoke to said his company is getting requests form Fortune 500 companies to make
virtual-reality demos for no other reason than to.

With Sony, Facebook and its Oculus Rift, and HTC's Vive (which can be used
walking around in a room, though it's tethered to a computer) coming out this
year, it seems like the true test of the technology is yet to come. At SXSW,
though, it was generating a lot of interest.

Don't bum us out. Of the hundreds of panels available, I only got to attend a
handful. While the Obama keynote was an obviously packed affair, other events I
went to that dealt with tough issues seemed under-attended. An all-day Online
Harassment Summit drew about 40 to 60 people per session. A session about
harnessing the power of Latino voters with actress América Ferrera filled so
small a percentage of its panel room that Ferrera felt compelled to comment on
the matter. "It's not a packed house," she said to fewer than 100 attendees in a
room meant to hold 1,100. "I think it's interesting, and I think it's important
to acknowledge and to say: 'This is where we're at with this conversation.'"

My colleague Lilly Rockwell reported that the line for a discussion on gender
diversity drew smaller lines than another event involving food celebrity Anthony
Bourdain.

My theory: People are coming to South by Southwest not to have tough
conversations or to feel bad about the world around them, but to be entertained,
inspired and stuffed with tacos at food trucks around town.

There's nothing wrong with that, necessarily, but the festival's effort to make
diversity, for instance, a major topic of discussion did not go over great with
attendees in terms of filling seats, it seems like.

Brands got it right this year. Or at least, the brands that matter mostly did.
For years, SXSW diehards have bemoaned the big-budget branding that goes on at
the fest. But this year, even McDonald's avoided a messy public misstep and
smart brands offered useful services and experiences to people at the fest.

This included everything from free food to an adorable St. Bernard delivering
precious mobile phone charging to the clever idea of sleeping stations from
Casper Mattress, allowing for naps at the sleep-draining event.

The one that probably stood out the most, at least visually, was a downtown
installation for USA network's "Mr. Robot" TV show that included a giant Ferris
wheel, a hacker lounge and free, custom-made T-shirts. "Mr. Robot" - moody,
artsy and obsessed with how our private information is continually compromised
whether we know it or not - was a perfect fit for the Interactive festival a
year after winning a SXSW Film Audience Award in 2015.

The worst instance of branding I saw at the fest: A startup's tacky use of
Trojan Magnum condoms to promote themselves. When these were being passed out at
a rooftop party, I could not excuse myself from the conversation quickly enough.

Presidential boost. It's likely SXSW 2016 will be remembered as the year when
the Obamas came to town, bookending the Interactive fest with an opening keynote
from President Barack Obama and a SXSW music keynote with first lady Michelle
Obama the day after Interactive concluded.

Every year, doubters - often from far outside of Austin - proclaim that SXSW has
jumped the shark or lost its mojo, despite growing solidly year-over-year since
2003.

The booking of the Obamas, the first time a sitting president and first lady
have visited the fest, seemed like a minor miracle and a significant step in
SXSW's 30th year and SXSW Interactive's 23rd.

Interactive director Hugh Forrest said as much in his introduction of the
president: "It signifies a timely shift in the evolution of our event, where
ideas converge in the hopes of uniting cultures."

The fest's welcome of the first couple was warm and seemed like a good omen of
SXSW's future, its continuing influence and its growing global cachet for
attracting influencers to Austin every March.

Contact Omar L. Gallaga at 512-445-3672.

Twitter: @omarg

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 28, 2016 Saturday
                                 State Edition

This week's free events include ballet, bubbles and 'Game of Thrones'

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 402 words


Sunday

Island Style Pig Roast. Can't make that Hawaiian vacation dream a reality this
year? With a pig roast by Austin chef Joe Becerra and island cocktail specials
all night long, you may not miss the beach at all. Afterward, dance away your
wanderlust with a '90s dance party. Doors at 5 p.m., food service at 8 p.m.
Volstead Lounge at Hotel Vegas, 1500 East Sixth Street. hotelvegasaustin.com.

"Game of Thrones" screening. Need to keep up with Westeros but don't have an HBO
subscription? Never fear, a screening party is here! Catch last week's episode
at 7 p.m., followed by this week's new episode at 8 p.m. on a 25-foot HD screen.
The North Door, 502 Brushy Street. ndvenue.com.

Monday

Memorial Day Bash. If you're lucky, you have the day off. Take in the sweet
sounds of local band Steady Legend while brunching with a Manmosa and good
company. Noon to 3 p.m. Banger's Sausage House and Beer Garden, 79 Rainey
Street. 512-386-1656, bangersaustin.com.

Tuesday

High Noon Talk. One of Texas's leading cookbook Authors, Terry
Thompson-Anderson, will speak about Austin's contribution to the world's complex
food system. Her new book, "Texas on the Table," has been shortlisted for a
James Beard Award. Noon to 1 p.m. Bullock Texas State History Museum, 1800
Congress Ave. 512-936-8746, thestoryoftexas.com. The museum is hosting exhibit
"Our Global Kitchen: Food, Nature, Culture" through July 24.

Friday

Ballet Under the Stars. The Austin Metamorphosis Dance Ensemble performs "Les
Sylphides," a 100-year-old ballet blanc. Arrive early to picnic under the
setting sun and watch for a sneak peek as the skilled dancers warm up. Donations
will be accepted. 8 p.m. Zilker Hillside Theater, 2201 Barton Springs Road.
512-246-6047, metamorphosisdance.org.

Saturday

Bubblepalooza. Austin's soapiest summer tradition returns for its fifth year on
the City Terrace. The whole family will love live music from local bands, food
trailers, chalk art and, of course, bubbles everywhere. Hope for sun, but this
event is rain or shine. 9 a.m.-1 p.m. The Long Center, 701 West Riverside Drive.
512-457-5100, thelongcenter.org.

Madrone Canyon Trail Hike. Whether its your first or hundredth time, explore the
Madrone Canyon Trail at a gentle pace with Texas Master Naturalist Jean Love El
Harim as your guide. Children over 5 can enjoy the hike, too. 10 a.m. Meet at
Laura's Library, 9411 Bee Cave Road. 512-327-3045, westbanklibrary.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 25, 2016 Thursday
                                 State Edition

17 parties that altered Austin

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1633 words


The fall social season arrived - early - last week with the always warm hearted
Ice Ball for Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Central Texas at the Hyatt
Regency's handy Zilker Banquet Room.

As we look forward to autumn's parade of public events - see box for a sampling
- we look back at parties that altered our fair city.

1. Oct. 17, 1839: Grand entry of President Lamar. Austin likely wouldn't exist
if President Mirabeau B. Lamar hadn't stubbornly chosen a remote buffalo-hunting
camp on the Colorado River for the capital of the Republic of Texas. Virtually
everyone in Austin (pop. 553) joined the joyous parade welcoming the president
and other national figures as they trailed in from the east on this day.

2. Dec. 25, 1871: Advent of the first railroad. Muddy or dust-choked roads kept
Austin (pop. 4,400) pretty isolated until the first train arrived at the
terminus of the Houston and Texas Central line on East Fifth Street. Hundreds of
locals were in place to meet the two locomotives and two passenger cars at 4
p.m., which did not arrive until 6. "Cannons were fired, and about 9 p.m., all
assembled at the Capitol for the grand reception, ball and supper," wrote Gov.
Elisha Pease. "It was a perfect jam."

3. May 14-19, 1888: Dedication of the State Capitol. More than 20,000
out-of-towners showed up to witness the unveiling of what was then the biggest
building in this part of the world. Visitors overwhelmed the still-small
micropolis (pop. 14,000). Many of them stayed at Camp Ross and then paraded up
Congress Avenue for the speeches, entertainments and inevitable ball.

4. Sept. 19, 1904: St. John Encampment. During this period, as many as 25,000
mostly rural African-American Baptists converged on Austin (pop. 22,000) each
year, usually in the summer months. The faithful enjoyed parades, shows,
sermons, exhibits, contests and educational demonstrations. Although Juneteenth
(June 19) still holds special meaning for Texans in memory of the state's late
Emancipation announcement, the scale of the old encampments appears to have been
even more impressive.

5. May 8, 1945, and Aug. 14, 1945: VE and VJ days salute the end of World War
II: When fighting ended in Europe, and then three months later in the Pacific,
Austinites - including military personnel stationed at Bergstrom Air Force Base
and Bastrop's Camp Swift - flocked to the streets of Austin (pop. 100,000) for
delirious celebrations. The party in fact started across the country well before
peace was officially proclaimed, "as if joy had been rationed and saved up for
the three years, eight months and seven days since Sunday, Dec. 7, 1941," as
Life magazine reported after VJ Day.

6. Aug. 3-12, 1962: Initial Austin Aqua Fest. The completion of Longhorn Dam in
1959 impounded what was then called Town Lake, now Lady Bird Lake. A
water-skiing demonstration in 1961 inspired the 20 watery events that launched
Aqua Fest in Austin (pop. 200,000) in 1962. The annual attractions included
theme nights, concerts, sailing regattas, water parades, beauty contests,
carnival food, car races and more than a little controversy over noise and
congestion until the plug was pulled in 1998.

7. Jan. 1, 1964: First national title of the Darrell Royal era confirmed.
University of Texas football teams had won national titles under early ranking
systems in 1914 and 1941. Coach Royal's titles came in the TV era, when even
folks not physically at the games felt they were part of the triumphs. Dancing
in the streets ensued after the undefeated 1963 season and the win over Navy in
the Cotton Bowl on New Year's Day.

8. March 17-19, 1972: Dripping Springs Reunion. The prototype for Willie
Nelson's Fourth of July Picnics was, in a sense, Austin's progressive country
Woodstock, staged on a "thirsty piece of ranchland." "The stage would have been
up there near the stock tank," reported the Statesman's Dave Thomas in his
definitive history. "Behind it, more than two dozen of country music's biggest
stars. In front, thousands of music fans sitting in the dirt, in lawn chairs, on
coolers."

9. March 20-25, 1973: Rodeo Austin comes of age. Started in 1940 as a fat stock
show staged in the shadows of the State Capitol, the city's rodeo and livestock
extravaganza reached the modern era at the City Coliseum. In the show's heyday,
riders paraded down a festooned Congress Avenue. Kids got out of school. Offices
closed. "Our first entertainer was Johnny Rodriguez," recalls longtime rodeo
backer Verlin Callahan, who was its president that year. "Right out of the
jailhouse."

10. Nov. 1-2, 1984: First downtown celebration of El Dia de Los Muertos. Many of
the early parties for the city's Latino community were focused around Fiestas
Patrias, Mexican national holidays. But this party spilled onto the streets when
Mexic-Arte Museum welded the energy of Austin's suddenly confident arts
community with the interpolated traditions of El Dia de Los Muertos, now part of
a festival now dubbed Viva La Vida.

11. March 12-15, 1987: First South by Southwest. Nobody predicted that SXSW
would grow into the cultural behemoth it is today, but anybody with a sense of
the city's nightlife knew that something special was happening when hundreds of
music lovers showed up on the first day. This reporter remembers spontaneous
parties, downtown clubs sans long lines and a feeling of social liberation on
the streets.

12. Jan. 15, 1991: Ann Richards sworn in as governor. Marching across the
Congress Avenue Bridge, now named after her, Gov. Ann Richards was uniquely
suited to engage Austin and its social climate. The rest of the inauguration was
a party. Another political night is memorable for different reasons: The
Capitol-area presidential victory party of Gov. George W. Bush fizzled in the
cold rain on Nov. 7, 2000, because the voting tally was too close to call.

13. Dec. 31, 1999: A2K. An estimated 260,000 people mobbed the intersection of
Congress Avenue and Sixth Street to welcome the new century. Smaller Austin
parties abounded. The city has always celebrated New Year's Eve - as well as
Halloween - in raucous style. This, however, turned into an all-time blowout.

14. Sept. 28-29, 2002: Inaugural Austin City Limits Music Festival. Can you
believe it started in Zilker Park as just a two-day event? One-day passes cost
$25. Now the monster fest stretches out over two weekends and attracts some of
the biggest musical acts in the world. Except when the weather turns bad - and,
oh, it has - the social experience can be transcendent.

15. Nov. 16-18, 2012: Our initial Formula One United States Grand Prix.
Cassandras predicted chaos: Downtown streets locked up with traffic, round trips
to Circuit of the Americas lasting uncounted hours. Others mocked the expected
onslaught of snooty global elites. None of that happened. Shuttle buses took
care of most of the traffic, and while producers set up some velvet-roped pop-up
clubs downtown, people mixed freely - and still do.

16. April 11-12, 2013: First Mack, Jack & McConaughey. The 21st century has seen
some smashing annual charitable parties: The gorgeous Fête/fêt*ish for Ballet
Austin, the jazzy Red, Hot & Soul for Zach Theatre, the dazzling Dell Children's
Gala, the celebrity-studded nights for the Andy Roddick Foundation, the edifying
Toast of the Town series for the St. David's Foundation, to name a few. The
multi pronged MJM event, inspired by the old Willie Nelson-Darrell Royal-Ben
Crenshaw bashes, combines numerous delightful elements (including Camila Alves'
fashion show), and it has already cleared more than $5 million for targeted
children's charities.

17. Sept. 20, 2014: Austin Pride hits a historical mark. Apple assembled 3,000
supporters to join the Austin Pride parade down Congress Avenue, which was
cheered by more than 125,000 spectators that year. Now think back to April 1970,
when only 25 people showed up for the first publicly promoted meeting of Austin
homosexuals. The LGBT merriment increased during the 2015 Austin Pride events,
since the U.S. Supreme Court had ruled in favor of marriage equality in June,
but there was something magical about the unexpected public cohesion of 2014.

(BOX):

SOME FALL SOCIAL SEASON HIGHLIGHTS

These coming Austin social events are winking at me. Aug. 25: ADLTrue Colors,
800 Congress Ave. Aug. 27: Texas 4000 Tribute Gala,JW Marriott Aug. 27:
Celebrando Austin for GreaterAustin Hispanic Chamber, Hyatt Regency Aug. 27:
Austin Pride Festival and Parade, various locales, including the Capitol and
Congress Avenue Sept. 2: 4th and Goal Gala for DKR Research Fund for Alzheimer's
Disease,AT&T Center Sept. 4: UT Longhorns football opener against Notre Dame,
Royal-Memorial Stadium Sept. 9: The Big Give for I Live Here, I Give Here,
Sunset Room Sept. 16: Authentic Mexico for the Hispanic Alliance, Long Center
Sept. 17: Ballet Austin Fête and fête*ish,JW Marriott Sept. 21: Food forThought
for Communities in Schools, ACL Live Sept. 23: Hill Country Nights for Hill
Country Conservancy, Fair Market Sept. 24: Jewel Ball forAustin Symphony, Palmer
Events Center Sept. 29: Austin Area Urban League Equal Opportunity Gala, Hilton
Austin Sept. 29. Caritas Words of Hope / Harvey Penick Award dinner, Hyatt
Regency Sept. 30: ACL Music Festival opening night, Zilker Park Oct. 12: Film
and Food Party forAustin Film Festival, Driskill Hotel Oct. 21: Formula One
United States Grand Prix, Circuit of the Americas Oct. 22: Barbecue on the
Pedernales, LBJ Ranch Oct. 22: Caterina Ball for Mexic-Arte Museum, Four Seasons
Hotel Oct. 28: B Scene: Inevitable Warhol Happening, Blanton Museum ofArt Nov.
4: First Edition Literary Gala forTexas Book Festival, Four Seasons Hotel Dec.
4: Dancing with the Stars Austin for Center for Child Protection, Hilton Austin
Dec. 10: Black Ball for Black Fret, Paramount Theatre

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 2, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Congress succeeds amid compromise

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 792 words


When the 114th Congress convened a year ago this month, with Republicans back in
control of the U.S. House and Senate for the first time in eight years, we found
little reason to be optimistic that much governing would get done - not after
several years of Republican government shutdowns, both threatened and actual, of
courting default on the national debt and of generally manufacturing one fiscal
crisis after another. But, as we wrote early last year, we hoped we would be
proved wrong.

Today we write that we were proved wrong, mostly. Last year was a productive
year for Congress. And it's worth reminding ourselves that Congress generally
doesn't have productive years unless its members compromise, not only with each
other but with the president too.

Despite polarized impressions otherwise, 2015 was a bipartisan congressional
year:

Members of Congress passed a budget deal that puts off further silliness over
the debt ceiling until March 2017. They replaced the much-hated No Child Left
Behind Act, returning significant education accountability to the states. They
passed, for the first time in a decade, a five-year, $305 billion transportation
bill that will make federal help available to Texas and other states for some
major highway projects.

They also ended a perennial nuisance in Medicare reimbursements to doctors, gave
President Barack Obama and his successors greater authority to negotiate global
trade agreements and passed a $680 billion tax package that makes permanent more
than 20 tax breaks, including credits for low-income families and the sales tax
deduction enjoyed by Texans and residents of other states without an income tax.

And they ended the year by passing a $1.15 trillion spending bill that will keep
the government funded through September. This was one of those massive omnibus
bills that contain many things to both like and loathe. Significantly for Texas,
attached to it was legislation that ended the 40-year-old ban on exports of
American crude oil.

Texas Sen. John Cornyn, who stands in the No. 2 spot in the U.S. Senate behind
Majority Leader Mitch McCon­nell of Kentucky, spoke with us by phone last month
to talk up Congress' bipartisan accomplishments. And we note here an
accomplishment of Cornyn's own: the passage of his Justice for Victims of
Trafficking Act, which targets sex trafficking in the United States and creates
a fund to help trafficking victims.

Consider the decision to repeal the ban on U.S. crude oil exports as an example
of congressional bipartisanship. Congress passed the export ban in 1975 during
an era of embargoes by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries,
rising gasoline prices and anxiety about the nation's oil supply. Over the past
decade, the shale fracking boom has dramatically altered America's position as a
world oil producer, and opening global markets to American oil was a top
Republican priority.

To succeed, however, Republicans had to offer concessions to Democrats concerned
about climate change, including solar and wind energy tax credits. As Republican
U.S. Rep. Joe Barton of Ennis noted of the export ban's repeal, "There are a lot
of Republicans upset by what is not in the bill; there are a lot of Democrats
who are upset because of what is in the bill."

Cornyn, McConnell and new Speaker of the House Paul Ryan not only had to reach
out to Democrats to prove they could govern, but they also had to defy the
hard-line conservatives of their own party, including Cornyn's fellow Texan in
the Senate, Ted Cruz. To pass the $1.15 trillion spending bill, for example,
Republican negotiators abandoned many provisions favored by tea party and social
conservatives, including attempts to defund Planned Parenthood and the
Affordable Care Act and block the resettlement of Syrian refugees in the United
States.

These compromises have played into the Republican base's sense of betrayal by
the party's establishment just as actual voting to choose the next Republican
presidential candidate is set to begin Feb. 1. Because the new year is an
election year, few congressional observers expect 2016 to match the productivity
of 2015.

In talking about the important, bipartisan accomplishments of 2015, Cornyn
qualified his remarks by saying he was "not claiming the Age of Aquarius is
dawning" in Congress. Republicans and Democrats remain deeply divided on issues
like guns, immigration and tax reform, and Republicans have their own intraparty
divisions to contend with too.

Nor are we saying we agree with every piece of legislation that was passed in
2015. But the way Congress worked on many issues over the past year - through
give and take, by searching for and finding common ground and compromising - is
how government is supposed to work.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 6, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Big questions about big game

BYLINE: Cedric Golden and Kirk Bohls American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPOR; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1072 words


American-Statesman columnists Kirk Bohls and Cedric Golden discuss some of the
major questions and story lines from Sunday's Super Bowl 50 matchup between the
Carolina Panthers and Denver Broncos:

1. Where will Peyton Manning rank among all-time quarterbacks with a win?

Bohls: I'd put Manning fourth behind Tom Brady, Joe Montana and John Elway. A
second title would be validating, but Carolina will win 27-13.

Golden: A win places him in the top three all-time, right behind Montana and
Brady and just ahead of Elway. A 2-2 record in the Super Bowl is OK, but two
rings adds to his already secure status as the best regular-season quarterback
of all time. With that said, Peyton will come up short in a 30-14 loss and
retire. Get the bust ready, Canton.

2. And where will Manning rank with a loss?

Bohls: I'd put him in the top 10 and on a par with Brett Favre, Dan Marino, Drew
Brees, Aaron Rodgers, Johnny Unitas and my favorite, Roger Staubach, a Navy man
who didn't start his career until he was 27. Probably put him fifth, behind my
three above and Unitas. After all, if he loses, his playoff record would be
13-14.

Golden: A loss makes Manning a borderline top five, but behind Elway. I'd lump
him with Marino (my favorite), Favre, Staubach, Steve Young and Warren Moon, but
behind Montana, Brady and Elway.

3. Will Cam Newton's career be shortened because he runs so much?

Bohls: Yes, if he continues to do so. His 132 carries led all quarterbacks, and
he's topped 100 carries in all five of his seasons. It doesn't really matter how
big and how strong he is. The more he runs, the more he puts himself at risk
against equally big and equally strong defenders.

Golden: No, because he runs smartly and places himself at huge risk only when
he's at the goal line. Newton has figured out when to stick his neck out and
when to get out of bounds. Besides, the dude is 6-6, 260. We should be asking
about the career longevity of guys trying to tackle him.

4. Which non-Pro Bowler will become a star on Sunday?

Bohls: Tough choice, since Carolina's got 10 Pro Bowlers. One who's not is
safety Kurt Coleman, who has nine interceptions this year, including two in the
playoffs. He could emerge as a pivotal player in the game.

Golden: Carolina's Star Lotulelei. He's already establishing a reputation as one
of the most disruptive tackles in the league. Expect him to get to Peyton at
least once.

5. Who's the most overrated player in Super Bowl 50?

Bohls: Denver receiver Demaryius Thomas. Does anyone disappear in more big
games? Love the story about how he has reunited with his mother, but he's been a
no-show in the playoffs so far (six catches, 52 yards, no touchdowns). Maybe
this is his time.

Golden: Thomas. He's blessed with tremendous gifts but will always drop a couple
of easy balls or cough up a fumble in a big game.

6. Who's the most underrated player in Super Bowl 50?

Bohls: I'll go with a coach. Carolina's Ron Rivera was unbelievably interviewed
and passed over for other head coaching jobs eight times.

Golden: Roman Harper. Carolina's gray-headed defensive back is only 33 and looks
much older but still plays like he's a rookie.

7. Did the Cowboys make a mistake by releasing DeMarcus Ware?

Bohls: Yes. That forced their hand to pick up the troubled and troublemaker Greg
Hardy, who never lived up to his billing and proved to be a thorn in the
coaches' side and a cancer in the locker room.

Golden: No. Ware's production decreased in his last couple of seasons there.
Even if injuries were the cause, Dallas really couldn't afford to pay a guy who
might have been in a steady decline $12.25 million a season.

8. What's your lead-pipe cinch prop bet?

Bohls: This is a no-brainer - how many times will the Golden Gate Bridge be
shown during the broadcast, with an over of 0.5 and an under of 0.5. Are you
kidding me? At least once. But I'm betting three or more.

Golden: Take a quarterback to win MVP honors. Easy money. It's happened in seven
of the past nine years and in 27 of the 49 Super Bowls.

9. What's your all-time favorite Super Bowl touchdown?

Bohls: Montana's 10-yard pass to John Taylor with 34 seconds left to cap a
92-yard drive and beat the Bengals in Super Bowl XXIII. It was Bill Walsh's
final game.

Golden: This won't play well in this part of the country, but it's Lynn Swann's
circus catch past Cowboys defenders Benny Barnes and Cliff Harris in Super Bowl
XIII. It was football poetry.

10. What's your most memorable gaffe?

Bohls: I've never forgotten the time Buffalo running back Thurman Thomas
couldn't find his helmet and missed the first series of Super Bowl XXVI. Not
that he did much once he found his headgear, carrying only 10 times for 13 yards
in a 37-24 loss to the Redskins.

Golden: Pete Carroll's decision not to hand off to Marshawn Lynch at the goal
line in Super Bowl XLIX, which cost his team a second title. Malcolm Butler's
interception of Russell Wilson was 99 percent on the coach.

11. What's your all-time favorite Super Bowl commercial?

Bohls: Any commercial involving the Budweiser talking frogs. Fell in love with
"Bud," "Weis" and "Errr" croaking in the swamp during Super Bowl XXIX. So did
America.

Golden: The 1979 Coca-Cola ad featuring Steelers legend Mean Joe Greene with the
kid and the jersey remains the gold standard. It still puts a lump in my throat.

12. Should cold-weather cities host future Super Bowls?

Bohls: Absolutely. Why not? I'd love to see a Super Bowl in a blizzard. And it's
only a matter of time until they play the big game in London.

Golden: I say no. The game should maximize the fan experience, and that best
happens in a warm environment, whether that's in a dome or in a warm climate.

13. Who'll make it to a Super Bowl first: Dallas or Houston?

Bohls: The Texans, who could be a good starting quarterback away. The Cowboys
are a general manager change away.

Golden: Neither is very close, but I give Dallas the edge because it has a great
building block with that great offensive line and an experienced quarterback -
for as long as Tony Romo sticks around.

14. Who'll end up playing in Super Bowl 51 - er, LI?

Bohls: I see the Packers, with a healthy Jordy Nelson and without fat Eddie
Lacy, beating the Brock Osweiler-led Broncos.

Golden: Green Bay and Pittsburgh will meet for the second time in a Super Bowl
played in Texas. This time, Big Ben gets his revenge.

Contact Kirk Bohls at

512-445-3772.

Twitter: @kbohls

Contact Cedric Golden at 512-912-5944.

Twitter: @cedgolden

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 7, 2016 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

At Super Bowl C, we can't see good ol' days

BYLINE: Kirk Bohls American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPOR; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 833 words


Seems like only yesterday that Cam Newton was dancing and smiling and gesturing
his way to the Carolina Panthers' convincing 27-13 victory over the Denver
Broncos in Super Bowl 50.

It was entertaining enough, but I still long for the old days of classic
rivalries between storied franchises and up-and-coming teams, battles between
quarterbacks new and old, and even the use of Roman numerals for this gladiator
sport. They added an air of majesty to the surreal proceedings.

So it was a good thing when, here in 2066, NFL Commissioner Tom Brady
arbitrarily ruled that we would return to Caesar's way of doing things, which is
why we're on the eve of the Bud Lite-est Super Bowl C on Sunday between the
Kuala Lumpur Knights and the Florence Nightingales. Sounds weird, doesn't it?

The prop bets have all been placed, ranging from whether the opening coin toss
by U.S. President Justin Bieber comes up heads or tails to which song Lady
Grandma Gaga chooses to begin the halftime show.

I have to say I'm not wild about the idea that this year's Super Bowl is being
played in Malaysia. It was once a quintessential American game. At least, until
the outrage about Houston Texans quarterback Peyton Manning's second headache of
the 2024 season forced him to retire prematurely at 48.

This also will be the very first Super Bowl using ocean-powered lights to
illuminate the 225,000-seat stadium, where, thanks to advances in 3-D visuality,
fans in the upper, upper, upper deck have the same view as those on Row 5. Also,
modern medicine is on full display: Florence running back Barry

Sanders V is expected to start despite having surgery to repair torn knee
ligaments just two weeks ago.

But here we are a full month - can you believe there's a month of buildup
between the conference title games and the Super Bowl - after we saw the London
Bridges falling down in a huge upset by the Knights. The game was seen by almost
as many people on Mars as on Earth. More than 14 billion people watched the game
- most of them on their wristwatches and even a few on their toothbrushes.

I can still remember - before I was loaded in that time machine in - the days
when American teams won every Super Bowl. The days when Newton began his run of
six straight Super Bowl victories with Carolina, when Tom Brady retired at age
52 after winning his eighth ring, and when the hilarious Bill Belichick rambled
on and on as the color analyst on ESPN Martia.

Who would have thought after the movie "Concussion V" that so few parents in the
U.S. would allow their kids to play football that we'd end up with just four
American teams in the 32-team International

Football League? That number dropped to an all-time low when the Houston Texans
- still the only IFL team never to play in the big game because they still can't
find a decent quarterback - finally folded, along with the Cleveland Dog
Pounders. Who would have ever thought we'd have six teams in England and only
four in the States?

Hard to believe there are teams like the Cairo Egyptians, the Amsterdam 420s and
the Saskatchewan Sasquatches, but none in Green Bay, where the frozen tundra
finally froze over in 2040, and the Packers ceased to exist after President
Chelsea Clinton said climate change was real. Of course, she was late to the
party and should have made the declaration when the Arizona Cardinals walked off
the field after practice was halted because of the 167-degree temperatures.
Those were sad days.

I'm still not on board with extra points being a 50-yard kick. I know we saw
Steve Gostkowski IV drill a field goal from 85 yards in October, but that was
wind-aided.

But so many of the rules have changed.

Remember the 2035 South American Football Conference championship, in which
Julius Peppers was thrown out of the game for breathing too hard on quarterback
Robert Griffin V. Peppers clearly had RG V's flag in his grasp before exhaling,
and the Rio de Caballeros never recovered. Of course, the Caballeros' All-IFL
cornerback DeonLeon Sanders-Sandcastle missed the game after drinking tainted
water.

Football has changed so dramatically. Super Human Growth Hormone was legalized
in 2021, and even the coaches take it. Contact was totally disallowed starting
in 2029, as the IFL switched to laser flag football for safety reasons.

Through Dell microchips, coaches can now signal in plays on quarterbacks'
foreheads so all can see them in the huddle. ESPN introduced the concept of
huddle reporters, who interview players before the snap. And medical advances
have given us biomedically engineered implants that, when inserted on the
sidelines, can cure broken bones between plays.

But it's still football as we know it. Well, not really.

So it's with a tinge of sadness that we look forward to kickoff in Super Bowl C,
although we can take solace in one fact. Knights coach Nick Saban is expected to
win again, and you just know he'll get ticked off when he's showered with
Gatorgoo after the game.

Contact Kirk Bohls at 512-445-3772. Twitter: @kbohls

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

'Food Lab' author López-Alt teaching at Central Market

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 880 words


Harold McGee used to be the only scientific food expert that most home cooks
could name, but in the past decade, another mad scientist has entered the room:
J. Kenji López-Alt, the "Food Lab" columnist on SeriousEats.com, who has
published his nearly 1,000-page opus on the science of cooking.

"The Food Lab: Better Home Cooking Through Science" (W. W. Norton & Company,
$49.95) hit the New York Times bestseller list last fall, a nice feather in the
cap for this MIT graduate who set aside his architecture degree to work in
restaurant kitchens after college. He eventually landed at Cook's Illustrated
and then, in 2009, Serious Eats, where he continues to publish some of the most
well-read posts on the Internet about seemingly simple subjects, such as how to
boil an egg or fry a hamburger.

López-Alt will be in Austin for a class at Central Market, 4001 N. Lamar Blvd.,
on Tuesday about the science behind breakfast favorites, such as poached eggs,
hollandaise sauce, potato hash and breakfast sausage. Tickets ($75) and are at
centralmarket.com.

BEER/WINE/SPIRITS

Napa Valley winemaker joins Fall Creek; World of Beer closes, may change locale

The Texas Hill Country's oldest winery continues to draw in prestigious talent
from around the world: this time, from Napa Valley.

Joining Fall Creek Vineyards' co-owner Ed Auler and director of winemaking
Sergio Cuadra on the wine-producing team is Philip Boyd Price Jr., who hails
from Brand Napa Valley, a winery that specializes in Cabernet Sauvignon. Price
"has a great passion for crafting world-class wines and brings a wealth of
experience to the vineyard," according to a news release.

In addition to working under top winemakers like Philippe Melka, Price has a
master's degree in agriculture with a focus on enology and viticulture and has a
lot of experience working with the grapes that do particularly well in Texas'
warm climate, the winery said. He'll work side by side with Cuadra when he comes
to Texas.

Auler, who founded Fall Creek Vineyards in 1975 with his wife, Susan, is excited
to have an additional hand around to grow the grapes and develop the wines at
both of Fall Creek's locations.

"We think Price will be an excellent addition to our Fall Creek team, which has
produced highly lauded Cabernet Sauvignon-blended wines," Auler said in the news
release. The winemakers look forward to collaborating with him "partly because
of Phil's experience with Brand's Robert Parker-rated Cabernet Sauvignon wines."

Fall Creek Vineyards has shown remarkable resilience over the years, despite the
occasional difficulties of the fast-growing Texas wine industry. The Aulers
brought Cuadra to the winery in 2013, lured from Chile's vineyards by the
promise of Texas' hardy, drought-resistant grapes. He's helped bring the winery
into the next chapter of Texas winemaking.

In other news, less than a year after it opened on South Lamar Boulevard near
the Broken Spoke, Austin's outpost of World of Beer closed last week.

The pub, which straddled a tightrope between sports bar and craft beer bar,
struggled to find a following in Austin, although employee Kelsey Brown said,
"We may try to look for another location. That's a silver lining."

South Lamar's World of Beer was one of nearly 70 locations around the country.
The tavern originated in Tampa, Fla., in 2007, growing quickly from a
neighborhood bar to the nationwide franchise it is today. While it chose a
tricky spot in Austin to try and set up shop, the World of Beer company might
have better luck in a different part of town. - Arianna Auber

Ultra-Gooey Stovetop Mac 'N' Cheese
  If desired, top the mac with toasted bread crumbs just before serving. Use a
good melting cheese or combination thereof, like American, cheddar, Jack,
fontina, young Swiss, Gruyere, Muenster, young provolone and/or young Gouda,
among others. To reheat the pasta, add a few tablespoons of milk to the pan and
 cook, stirring gently, over medium-low heat until hot. - J. Kenji López-Alt
  1 pound elbow macaroni
  Kosher salt
  1 (12-oz.) can evaporated milk
  2 large eggs
  1 tsp. Frank's RedHot or other hot sauce
  1 tsp. ground mustard
  1 lb. extra-sharp cheddar cheese, grated
  8 oz. American cheese, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
  1 Tbsp. cornstarch
  8 Tbsp. (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 4 chunks
  Place the macaroni in a large saucepan and cover it with water by 2 inches.
Add a pinch of salt and bring to a boil over high heat, stirring occasionally
to keep the pasta from sticking. Cover the pan, remove from the heat, and let
stand until the pasta is barely al dente, about 8 minutes.
  Meanwhile, whisk together the evaporated milk, eggs, hot sauce and mustard in
 a bowl until homogeneous. Toss the cheeses with the cornstarch in a large bowl
 until thoroughly combined.
  When the pasta is cooked, drain it and return it to the saucepan. Place over
low heat, add the butter, and stir until melted. Add the milk mixture and
cheese mixture and cook, stirring constantly, until the cheese is completely
melted and the mixture is hot and creamy. Season to taste with salt and more
hot sauce. Serve immediately, topping with toasted bread crumbs if desired.
Serves 4 to 6.
  - From "The Food Lab: Better Home Cooking Through Science" (W. W. Norton &
Company, $49.95) by J. Kenji López-Alt


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 3, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Obamas set to be on stages at SXSW

BYLINE: Omar L. Gallaga and Peter Blackstock American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 688 words


In a first for South by Southwest, the festival this year will host a sitting
U.S. president.

President Barack Obama will be interviewed in an SXSW Interactive keynote
conversation March 11 with Texas Tribune Editor-in-Chief Evan Smith. The topic
will be "civic engagement in the 21st century, before an audience of creators,
early adopters and entrepreneurs who are defining the future of our connected
lives," the festival said in its announcement.

South by Southwest Music, meanwhile, will present first lady Michelle Obama in a
separate opening keynote March 16.

Michelle Obama's speech "will discuss using music to promote key ideas," SXSW
co-founder Roland Swenson said Wednesday. It also will focus on the Let Girls
Learn government initiative, "which aims to break barriers for the 62 million
girls around the world who are not in school today, more than half of whom are
adolescent," according to an SXSW news release.

In the announcement, Swenson said: "I can't imagine a better way to celebrate
our event's 30th birthday than to welcome both the president and first lady to
SXSW. As each new generation comes up at SXSW they look for ways they can be of
service, and it's important to reflect and support that message. President and
Mrs. Obama's visit here will inspire attendees to that purpose."

The president's visit on the opening day of SXSW Interactive will create
additional traffic issues on what is already one of Austin's busiest travel
days. A presidential visit typically includes briefly shutting down all flight
traffic at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, as well as a variety of
highway and street closures. The White House hasn't yet released arrival times
for Air Force One in Austin.

The president's presentation is open to SXSW Interactive, Gold and Platinum
badge holders. Michelle Obama's keynote is open to SXSW Music, Film, Gold and
Platinum badge holders. No times or locations were announced for the
presentations, though large-scale keynotes typically are held in Exhibit Hall 5
of the Austin Convention Center.

An opening SXSW Interactive keynote is scheduled for 2 p.m. with MBAs Across
America's Casey Gerald, but that talk is set for Ballroom D of the Convention
Center.

In a written statement, the White House said, "The president will call on the
audience to apply their ideas and talents to make technology work for us -
especially when it comes to tackling big challenges like increasing
participation in the political process and fighting climate change."

The Texas Tribune will be sourcing questions from its online audience for the
keynote, the statement said.

The president's keynote is in advance of a previously announced March 11
Democratic fundraiser that he'll attend at the Austin Music Hall. That event,
hosted by Austin entrepreneur William Hurley, founder and CEO of Austin startup
Honest Dollar, will include a musical performance by J. Cole and an appearance
by musician, actor and producer Will.I.Am.

Every year, SXSW hosts an increasing number of notable names in politics. In
recent years, former Vice President Al Gore, Chelsea Clinton and U.S. Sens. Al
Franken and Rand Paul have been keynote or featured speakers at SXSW
Interactive. This year, U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and other
White House staffers and Cabinet members will be speaking at SXSW Interactive.

In 1993, then-Gov. Ann Richards gave a "Welcome and Opening Remarks" speech to
kick off the music festival. And though he was never an official SXSW speaker,
former Gov. Rick Perry did appear on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" in 2014 when the show
camped out in Austin for a week of SXSW-adjacent shows in 2014.

The Michelle Obama news follows two previous SXSW Music keynote announcements:
David Bowie producer Tony Visconti, and Rap-A-Lot Records founder James A.
Prince.

Contact Omar L. Gallaga

at 512-445-3672.

Twitter: @omarg

Contact Peter Blackstock

at 512-445-3762.

SXSW coverage
  Get a preview of SXSW Interactive events in Friday's Austin360 section and
read about SXSW's local influence and impact over 30 years in Sunday's
American-Statesman. Follow our live coverage of SXSW at
  austin360.com/sxsw.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Austin's trees worth billions

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 586 words


Austin's trees, long valued for their shade and their looks, now have a price
tag: $16 billion.

That's what a team of U.S. Forest Service and Texas A&M Forest Service
researchers has deemed the "compensatory value" of the roughly 33.8 million
trees found in Austin.

That's about $480, on average, per tree.

The report is the first in a series by the U.S. Forest Service looking at the
value of urban forests around the country, to help policymakers make decisions
about their trees.

"It's hard to manage a grocery store if you don't know what's on your shelves,"
said David Nowak, the lead author and a research forester with the U.S. Forest
Service's Northern Research Station in Syracuse, N.Y. "There are risks of
changes to that forest: How would you want it better in the future? Where does
Austin want to be 30 or 40 years from now? Does it want more trees or less
trees?"

Austin has a relatively protective tree ordinance that has been in the cross
hairs of Gov. Greg Abbott and key lawmakers.

For more than 30 years, Austin has required owners of public and private land to
get the city's permission to fell trees with trunk diameters of 19 inches or
more - regardless of variety. In exchange, owners must plant new trees or pay
into a tree-planting fund.

In 2010, Austin added a stricter rule. It said owners couldn't cut down
so-called heritage trees - those of certain species with trunk diameters of 24
inches or greater - unless they prove that the tree is diseased or a safety risk
or that keeping it would prevent a reasonable use of land.

Since 2011, Austin's tree ordinance has led to the preservation of more than
13,300 trees, at least 7,950 have been allowed to be removed, and the ordinance
has required that more than 31,500 be planted.

It hasn't always gone smoothly: In 2011, a 57-foot-tall pecan tree on a private
lot by Bowie and West Fifth streets stood between developers and a new
residential tower. City rules forced the developers to save the tree, and they
ended up moving it nearby, at a cost of more than $200,000.

That tree is still alive, said Michael Embesi, who manages the community trees
division for the city, which helped with the study.

Researchers examined 200 randomly selected plots, each about a sixth of an acre,
to estimate the makeup of Austin's forest.

Among the findings of the report, titled "Austin's Urban Forest, 2014":

Trees cover 30.8 percent of the city's land. Nowak said the size of Austin's
tree canopy is in keeping with cities nationally, though the canopy naturally
decreases in drier climates.

The most abundant species are ashe juniper, cedar elm and live oak.

About 60 percent of trees are less than 5 inches in diameter.

The trees capture about 1.9 million tons of carbon dioxide annually.

About 90 percent of Austin's trees are native to Texas.

The compensatory value of a tree is based on trunk size, species, condition and
location. It includes the replacement cost of a similar tree and is an estimate
of the amount of money the tree owner should be compensated for a tree's loss.

Austin was selected by the Texas A&M Forest Service partly because there's a
"general impression people care about trees in Austin," said Christopher Edgar,
a forest resource analyst with the Texas A&M Forest Service.

Researchers will return in coming years to monitor how Austin's forest is
changing.

"We've got some statistics that will help us understand what kind of forest we
have and help us manage it better," Embesi said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 23, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Texas breeze: Wind power now cheaper in state than oil, gas

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 597 words


Barack Obama, exhorting Dallas Democrats during a Texas swing last month, called
Republican claims that the country and planet are in sorry shape a "false
narrative."

"America is pretty darn great right now," the Democratic president said.

And among great things, Obama said, Democrats believe in science and that
climate change is real - and that wind is a better bargain in Texas than
traditional oil and gas.

"Right now, here in Texas," Obama said, "wind power is already cheaper than
dirty fossil fuels."

Wind power sure has sizzle. In 2015, PolitiFact found Mostly True Obama's claim
that "America is No. 1 in wind power." China led in overall wind power capacity,
but the U.S. was generating more electricity from the wind. Earlier, in 2010, we
rated True a declaration that Texas had "installed more wind power than any
other state, and all but four countries." As of 2009, Texas boasted 9,410
megawatts of wind power - enough to power 2 million homes.

More recently, FactCheck.org, based at the University of Pennsylvania, dug into
Obama's claim in his 2016 State of the Union address that "in fields from Iowa
to Texas, wind power is now cheaper than dirtier, conventional power."
Nationally, average coal and gas prices were running less than average wind
power costs. Yet in Iowa and Texas, wind energy proved cheaper, according to an
Energy Information Administration analyst.

Meantime, an American Wind Energy Association blog post talking up Obama's
Iowa-Texas State of the Union claim noted a 2015 study by Lazard LLC, a
financial services firm, stating that the cost of wind production in Texas, not
counting government subsidies, runs from $36 to $51 per megawatt hour while an
average national cost for coal-fired electricity ranges from $65 to $150 per
megawatt hour and for gas, depending on the type of plant, from $52 to $218.

We asked the White House about the basis of Obama's statement in Dallas.
Spokesman Frank Benenati said a federal report shows that in 2014, the "average
executed price of wind power purchase agreements" was $23.50 per megawatt-hour,
and according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance "the levelized cost of energy from
wind in Iowa and Texas, even without subsidies, is lower than the" levelized
cost of energy "of coal at $59/MWh."

Congress in 2015 extended the federal Production Tax Credit for five years. That
action means "wind developers" get a credit of $23 per megawatt-hour for
electricity generated to the power grid, though the credit is set to diminish.

Even if Texas wind power might be cheaper for electricity than traditional
fuels, other authorities told us there's at least one smart reason to keep the
other fuels handy. Winds can die down, keeping turbines from spinning.

At the Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates oil and gas producers, Lauren
Hamner, spokeswoman for Commissioner Christi Craddick, said it's worth
remembering that a coal-fired plant is capable of running longer at all hours
than a breeze-dependent wind turbine - so power capacity, she said, should be
folded into any comparison.

Our ruling

Obama, in Dallas, said, "Right now, here in Texas, wind power is already cheaper
than dirty fossil fuels."

Wind-generated electricity is offered for sale in Texas at lower prices than
power fired by coal or natural gas. Unsaid: Wind power, unlike electricity
fueled by oil or gas, isn't always available.

We rate Obama's claim True.

Contact W. Gardner Selby at 512-445-3644.

Twitter: @gardnerselby

@politifacttexas

BARACK OBAMA
  Statement: "Right now, here in Texas, wind power is already cheaper than
dirty fossil fuels."


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Retail sales boost Texas' service sector

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 496 words


Texas retail sales rebounded in April after two consecutive months of declines,
helping accelerate the growth of the state's entire service sector, according to
a report released Tuesday by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state revenue index, a key measure of activity at private service-providing
firms, rose to a reading of 10.6 in April from 6.4 the previous month, according
to the Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey.

The greater, positive figure indicates that the sector grew at a faster rate
than it did in March. The report came a day after the Dallas Fed reported that
output from Texas factories expanded in April.

The return of greater retail demand helped boost the ongoing expansion, which in
April reached its highest point this year. The state sales index, which measures
retail activity, swung to a reading of 7.0 in April from -3.1 in March,
according to the Texas Retail Outlook Survey, a subsection of the broader
report.

The solid month of sales helped curb the rate of staff cutbacks at Texas
retailers, the report said. April's measure of employment ticked up to near-zero
reading, indicating steady payrolls, while previous cutbacks in hours eased this
month.

Across the entire service sector, the survey's measure of employment expanded
for the 74th consecutive month, accelerating in April from a slow pace of growth
in March, the report said.

Private service-providing companies account for about two-thirds of all nonfarm
jobs in the state, according to data from the Texas Workforce Commission. The
same companies account for about 60 percent of the state's economic output,
according to the Dallas Fed.

The rising rate of growth in retail and other service-providing firms did little
to improve managers' cautious opinion of the economy and their companies'
prospects. Retailers, in particular, expressed a pessimistic view of current
business conditions, although they indicated that they felt better about future
prospects.

Their skepticism matched a decline in consumer confidence nationwide. The
Consumer Confidence Index dipped to 94.2 in April from 96.1 the previous month,
according to the Conference Board.

Across the broader Texas service sector, managers were a bit more positive but
still noted lukewarm expectations for general business activity, both current
and six months out. They felt better about their own firms' prospects, according
to the report.

In anonymous comments compiled in the report, managers pointed to the
presidential election and the rippling effect of low oil and gas prices - and
the layoffs they have prompted - as reasons for concern.

"While our business outlook remains solid, I am concerned that as we move closer
to the elections, all the vitriol among the candidates will erode confidence and
hamper the economy," a manager at a real estate firm said.

"I am also very concerned about international economies, their debt issues and
the potential for spillover to the U.S. economy."

Contact Dan Zehr

at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 30, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Kissinger: No regrets on Vietnam

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 783 words


Though President Richard Nixon began a gradual withdrawal of American forces
from Vietnam soon after taking office in 1969, he and Henry Kissinger - Nixon's
national security adviser and later secretary of state - were determined to
prosecute a lost war without losing American "credibility." More than 21,000
Americans and perhaps as many as 1.5 million Vietnamese would die while Nixon
and Kissinger kept up appearances to reassure allies and warn off enemies.

Kissinger, 92, was at the LBJ Presidential Library on Tuesday night as part of
the library's three-day Vietnam War Summit, which ended Thursday. He described
the fall of South Vietnam in 1975 following the collapse of the 1973 peace
agreement he had negotiated with communist North Vietnam as "one of the saddest
moments of my life." And he described what he thought were a few lessons learned
from the war. One of them: Don't go to war unless you can describe an end you
are willing to sustain and unless you are willing in the extreme to sustain it
alone.

Kissinger admitted "tactical mistakes" were made in Vietnam but he said he had
no regrets about the war. Asked by the LBJ Library's Mark Updegrove how he
thought history would judge him, Kissinger shrugged and said his extensive
record was in the hand of others to judge and that history's judgment wasn't an
obsession for him. "I tried to do the best I could, and that's all I can say,"
he said.

Myopia and hubris marked America's involvement in Vietnam. History's judgment
probably won't rest on whether Kissinger tried to do the best he could. It
likely will rest on whether he ever acknowledged that what he thought was right
might have been terribly wrong. Tuesday, he gave no indication he has ever or
will ever consider such a thing.

- Jody Seaborn

Trump's friendly to gays,

and that's bad news for Cruz

A New York Times story published in this week's American-Statesman has given me
hope that the Republican Party will move to the left on gay marriage and LGBT
rights - if not voluntarily because it's the right thing to do, then by
necessity to prevent alienating new voters Donald Trump is bringing to the GOP.
Those voters care less about social issues and more about jobs.

The story is bad news for Ted Cruz, who like Trump is seeking the Republican
presidential nomination along with John Kasich. The latter pair have no pathway
to win the 1,237 delegates needed to secure the nomination. With 992 delegates,
Trump does. But he could lose if the nomination goes beyond a first ballot at a
contested convention. Those circumstances boost Cruz's chances to win.

But on gay rights, Cruz, who fervently opposes gay marriage, is being upstaged
by Trump. By contrast, Trump has strategically positioned himself in support of
gay rights. That is made clear in The Times story in which writer Maggie
Haberman details Trump's long support of gay rights issues.

Trump's direct and implied support of gay rights has created a strong
expectation for change in the GOP. That momentum is multiplied by pressure
coming from big corporations that have blocked the enactment of legislation in
Georgia and some other states for so-called religious liberty laws, which allow
businesses to refuse service to LGBT people.

The group Texas Competes has organized to fight such discriminatory efforts in
Texas. Republican conservatives who control the Legislature have made no secret
of their opposition to gay marriage and legislation that would permit state
agencies and public universities to offer domestic partnership benefits to their
employees.

Such benefits, offered by the city of Austin, the Austin school district and
many private companies, provide health coverage and other benefits to an
employee's same-sex or opposite-sex partner. Texas Competes makes a solid case
for creating a business climate that welcomes LGBT people and counts over 700
corporations and organizations as members, including Google, Microsoft, Texas
Instruments, Dell, Marriott, Hilton, Whole Foods and Samsung.

Trump, a billionaire businessman, recognized the benefit of equal treatment
years ago, according to Haberman's report. By contrast, Cruz is clinging to a
religious conservative view that defines marriage as a sacrament between one man
and one woman. But given the shifting ground in the GOP on gay rights and
Trump's influence in such matters, one has to wonder how long before the
conservative views of Cruz and other like-minded Republicans will be overtaken
by more moderate and welcoming views on gay rights.

- Alberta Phillips

These blog entries were edited for space. For the full versions and for more
perspectives from the American-Statesman's editorial board, go to
viewpoints.blog.statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 28, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Schools want in on nuke upkeep

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 454 words


Longhorns and Aggies might not be playing football against each other anymore,
but they're on the same page when it comes to the nation's nuclear weapons
complex: They want in together.

In a twist, the University of Texas would get one vote while Texas A&M would get
two on a multimember governing board to be formed if a consortium that includes
the two university systems wins a contract to operate Sandia National
Laboratories.

Sandia, based in Albuquerque, N.M., maintains weapons through "surveillance and
the exchange of weapon components that have limited life," and it also conducts
research involving climate change, cybersecurity, energy and high-performance
computing, according to its website. It is currently operated by Lockheed Martin
Corp.

UT System regents voted Monday to join the consortium with the Texas A&M
University System, the University of New Mexico, the Boeing Co. and Battelle
Memorial Institute in bidding for the contract. The approval, which came in a
unanimous vote, was expected inasmuch as officials had announced the consortium
last month.

If the consortium wins the bid, UT and A&M faculty members and students would be
able to participate in cutting-edge research as well as workforce training and
independent peer review of Sandia's work.

UT System officials said that Deputy Chancellor David Daniel would be appointed
to serve on the governing board of the organization that the consortium would
create to run Sandia, which has a $2.9 billion annual budget and more than
10,000 employees. A&M System Chancellor John Sharp has named two people to serve
on the board: M. Katherine Banks, vice chancellor and dean of engineering, and
Marvin Adams, a professor of nuclear engineering.

The disparity apparently stems from the A&M System's formative role in the
consortium, the idea for which arose at a November 2012 dinner hosted by Sharp
at his residence.

"We are working closely with A&M in partnership," Daniel said. "We really
appreciate that relationship with them."

Daniel declined to say how much money, if any, the UT System is spending on the
bid. "It's competition-sensitive information," he said.

A&M System spokesman Laylan Copelin also declined to discuss spending, citing
"competitive reasons."

Kelley Shannon, executive director of the Freedom of Information Foundation of
Texas, said: "This falls into a pattern we are seeing with many public agencies
trying to keep information off limits for so-called competitive reasons. When
public money and public universities are involved, the people have a right to
know how those funds are being spent, and as much light as possible should be
shined on those transactions."

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 1, 2016 Friday
                                 State Edition

Things look up for Texas oil

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 542 words


Business activity in the Texas oil and gas industry bounced back in the second
quarter after a sharp decline at the start of the year, raising hopes that
modestly higher commodity prices would hold and the sector would continue to
recover, according to a new report this week from the Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas.

The statewide index of business activity among exploration, production and
support services firms swung sharply to a reading of 13.8 in the second quarter
from -42.1 the prior three months, according to the Dallas Fed Energy Survey.

The greater, positive figure suggested that activity expanded during the period,
holding steady and rising at more firms than suffered declines.

The quarterly report, just launched by the Dallas Fed, was designed to provide a
timelier gauge of the state's energy industry and how it's faring.

For the most part, the report said, business conditions improved in the second
quarter, albeit modestly. While overall activity levels expanded, most measures
on the index continued to show contractions, albeit more modest drops.

"Although it is nice to see a better quarter than the first quarter, which
hopefully represents the bottom, it is certainly not enough to presume we are
out of the woods and can reset our spending behaviors," an oil and gas support
services firm noted in anonymous comments compiled in the report.

Firms continued to cut back on capital spending, employment and wages and
benefits, but in each case the contraction eased since the first quarter, the
report said.

Company outlooks also improved, with expectations for business six months out
swinging from deep pessimism to a real if cautious sense of optimism.

"We are cautiously optimistic that the recent increase in pricing is going to be
permanent in nature," said a manager at an exploration and production firm. "But
we are not changing activity in response to the recent change until we see the
longer-term pricing averages and outlooks improve."

The price of West Texas intermediate crude oil for August delivery fell to
$48.40, a drop of 2.9 percent, in trading Thursday.

In a set of supplemental questions asked by Dallas Fed researchers, more than 70
percent of firms in the Texas oil and gas sector said they expect global oil
supply and demand to come back into balance by this time next year.

Some 44 percent of respondents said growing global demand would be the most
important factor in correcting the oversupply that has driven prices lower
across the past two years.

Another 27 percent said lower U.S. production would be the primary factor.

In comments compiled by the Dallas Fed, managers in the oil and gas industry
reported continued struggles, but often noted hope that the floor on commodity
prices had increased for the long term. On average, the survey participants said
they expected year-end oil prices to be almost $55 per barrel.

"Although I do believe commodity prices will be higher a year from now, I don't
think they will be materially higher," said a manager at the same services firm
quoted above.

"But stability at greater than $50 per barrel, even if we would prefer a much
higher price, at least allows us to be able to plan our business more
effectively," the manager said.

Contact Dan Zehr at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 2, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Dinosaur doomsday What really happened?

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1287 words


Scientists think that 66 million years ago, a giant asteroid struck Earth near
what is now the Gulf of Mexico, devastating the planet and wiping out the
dominant form of life, the dinosaurs.

But what happened next?

University of Texas geophysics professor Sean Gulick spent significant chunks of
few months on a makeshift rig 15 miles from the Mexican coast trying to answer
that tricky question. Scientists have several strong hypotheses about the "dino
doomsday" crater but surprisingly little hard evidence to prove specifics.

The energy released by the strike doesn't fully explain the dinosaurs' demise.
It remains unclear which forms of life survived near the crater. Even the
crater's shape isn't fully explained by the laws of physics as we understand
them.

Gulick is co-leader of a team of 33 scientists from 12 countries that has
gathered samples they hope will help test various theories using geology. From
atop a rig resting on 250-foot-tall pillars, the crew drilled through the
seafloor and down into the original crater.

"We've got dinosaurs and space," he said. "Who doesn't love that?"

Gulick and co-lead researcher Joanna Morgan, a geophysics professor at Imperial
College London, hope the material that Expedition 364 collected will contribute
to more than just understanding how the dinosaurs died off. They hope it yields
clues about what Earth could endure if an asteroid strikes - and clues that help
in the search for life on other worlds.

Gulick describes the focus of the expedition with a single word: iridium.

The hard, brittle, silvery-white metal is common in asteroids. On Earth, it's
extremely rare, save for within a deep layer of clay above rocks that date back
to the end of the Cretaceous period, when dinosaurs lived. Scientists think a
meteor struck the Earth around that time hard enough to spread pieces of its
iridium around the globe.

Strikes the Earth

at 76,000 mph

In the late 1980s, scientists began hypothesizing that the crater where the
asteroid struck, which is now beneath millions of years of accumulated sediment,
is in the Chicxulub (pronounced CHEEK-shoo-loob) region of Mexico and a portion
of the Gulf. This is now the prevailing theory, which led Gulick and the
expedition's other scientists to the Yucat(degrees)n Peninsula.

One mystery they are trying to help unravel is why the crater is shaped as it
is. Many people think of craters as a large bowl in the ground. But that is only
the smallest kind, Gulick said. The really big ones have a ring of mountains
surrounding the middle.

These formations are explained partly by the combination of size and speed with
which an asteroid hits. The asteroids come in so fast â " 76,000 mph â " and
strike with such force that they essentially liquefy the rock and hurl it
outward.

"These impacts," Gulick said, "produce pressures that nothing in our experience
does."

In the case of the Chicxulub crater, the asteroid struck with the force of
roughly 100 million atomic bombs, causing a 62-mile-wide swath of rock to
"splash out" in a wave and then fall back in on itself. Morgan, the team
co-leader, told The Guardian that an expanding plume of red-hot vapor could have
vaporized everything in a circle reaching as far as Miami and Mexico City. That,
she said, was probably followed by hurricane-force winds and a cloud of sediment
that blocked out the sun.

The end result was a crater 125 miles across and nearly a mile deep.

Our understanding of physics cannot fully explain why that happened, Gulick
said. One objective of the expedition is to find samples that, he hopes, will
yield clues. Gulick, whose favorite dinosaur is the triceratops along with the
marine reptile the plesiosaur, describes the other reasons for the expedition in
terms of "the negative" and "the positive."

â  The negative'

Writer Gregg Easterbrook argues in a 2008 issue of The Atlantic magazine that
mankind has been lucky. An asteroid strike is unlikely any time soon but
possible, he contends. Strikes that happened relatively recently, in geological
terms, hit over the ocean, rather than land.

"Near-Earth (comets and asteroids) are more numerous than was once thought,
and... their orbits may not be as stable as has been assumed," Easterbrook
wrote.

Astronomers have identified 13,500 such "near-Earth objects" but generally guess
there are double that number. Every 100 years or so, a small one hurtles into
Earth's atmosphere and explodes. They generally do little harm, but if one did
explode over a town, Gulick said, "it could do major damage."

Every 100 million years or so, an asteroid on the scale of the one that killed
off the dinosaurs tends to strike.

"Probabilistically speaking, it's something we're not likely to see," Gulick
said. But if that likelihood is weighed against the catastrophic damage one
could do, "it becomes something worth paying attention to." Understanding the
physics at work during a strike could help with whatever steps people could take
in preparing for one, he said.

That understanding could also help determine what people would be dealing with
after an asteroid strike. The energy released from the Chicxulub strike, though
devastating, cannot fully explain why 75 percent of life on Earth went extinct.
The prevailing theory is that dust and sulfates from the crater rose into the
atmosphere, blocking out the sun and thus hampering photosynthesis, causing a
collapse of the food chain. Another "kill mechanism" could have been the sulfur
and carbon dioxide released falling back into the oceans, acidifying them.

If a sizable near-Earth object ever did begin bearing down on the planet, Gulick
said, knowing that a massive cloud of carbon could soon rise into the sky could
be crucial.

â  The positive'

Gulick is quick to move on from the doomsday part, though.

The expedition has had a blog, a Facebook page, a Reddit page and Twitter handle
(#dinodoomsday) tracking its progress. Gulick did occasional online chats about
the $10 million endeavor, which is funded by the International Ocean Discovery
Program and the International Continental Scientific Drilling Program. Crew
members, including UT geophysics professor Gail Christeson and postdoctoral
paleontologist Chris Lowery, rented houses along the coast. Gulick flew between
the coast and his teaching duties in Austin.

The expedition rented the Myrtle, a 100-foot-long lift boat that extended its
three thick pillars downward into the sea to perch on the crater's inner peak
ring. From that rig, the team hung the kind of drill used for offshore oil
exploration. The crew drilled down nearly a mile, taking a sample every 10 feet.
Half the samples will be kept at Texas A&M University. The last day of drilling
was May 25.

The composition of the samples might reveal whether notable amounts of carbon
were released by the strike. Pairing that knowledge with other information could
help in assessing global climate change today, Gulick said.

But the tone of Gulick, who speaks in swift declarative sentences, takes on an
additional note of enthusiasm when discussing another implication of the
research.

Microorganisms moved into the rocks of the peak ring after the strike, according
to samples so far. Labs in other parts of the world will sequence the DNA of
those organisms and add that to the geological record.

How long did it take those organisms to inhabit the peak ring? How did they
survive? What are they like?

On other planets, knowing what kinds of organisms can thrive around a crater -
the dominant feature on the surface of planets such as Mercury and Mars - could
help future interplanetary explorers search for life.

That is why the expedition includes an astrobiologist.

"Yes," Gulick said, "that is a real job."

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 3, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

TOP LOCAL BUSINESS STORIES OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 763 words


OIL REBOUND

Dallas Fed: Texas oil and gas industry improved, but struggles remain: Business
activity in the Texas oil and gas industry bounced back in the second quarter
after a sharp decline at the start of the year, raising hopes that modestly
higher commodity prices would hold and the sector would continue to recover,
according to a new report this week from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The statewide index of business activity among exploration, production and
support services firms swung sharply to a reading of 13.8 in the second quarter
from -42.1 the prior three months, according to the Dallas Fed Energy Survey.

The greater, positive figure suggested that activity expanded during the period,
holding steady and rising at more firms than suffered declines.

The quarterly report from the Dallas Fed is designed to provide a timelier gauge
of the state's energy industry and how it's faring.

For the most part, the report said, business conditions improved in the second
quarter, albeit modestly. While overall activity levels expanded, most measures
on the index continued to show contractions, albeit more modest drops.

"Although it is nice to see a better quarter than the first quarter, which
hopefully represents the bottom, it is certainly not enough to presume we are
out of the woods and can reset our spending behaviors," an oil and gas support
services firm noted in anonymous comments compiled in the report.

Firms continued to cut back on capital spending, employment and wages and
benefits, but in each case the contraction eased since the first quarter, the
report said.

Company outlooks also improved, with expectations for business six months out
swinging from deep pessimism to a real if cautious sense of optimism.

"We are cautiously optimistic that the recent increase in pricing is going to be
permanent in nature," said a manager at an exploration and production firm. "But
we are not changing activity in response to the recent change until we see the
longer-term pricing averages and outlooks improve."

TALKING TECH

Austin tech sector launches policy, lobbying group: Austin-area tech companies
are launching a policy and lobbying effort aimed at keeping them off the losing
end of votes at City Hall.

The Austin Technology Council said last week that it is creating a policy
coalition comprised of local entrepreneurs and representatives of larger tech
firms such as Google. That coalition will direct the tech council's lobbying
efforts.

"Tech, as an industry in this town, does not have a good relationship with our
elected officials," said Barbary Brunner, CEO of the Austin Technology Council.
"It's not because we've purposely built a combative relationship, but because we
haven't bothered to build one."

Brunner said the goal isn't to pass a list of legislative priorities, but to
build relationships with the City Council members and educate them on the role
of the tech industry in Austin.

Though lobbying often goes hand-in-hand with political endorsements and campaign
spending, Brunner said the policy coalition has no plans to endorse candidates
or donate to campaigns.

"Certainly not in this election cycle," Brunner said. She said they will be
watching how the council votes as a "barometer" on the success of their outreach
efforts.

Though individual companies have hired their own lobbyists at times to fight for
or against various proposals under consideration by the Austin City Council,
there has never been an organized effort by the tech industry to lobby local
officials.

"This is a very different constituency that has rarely been involved at City
Hall," said Trey Salinas, a spokesman for a group of large energy users that
often lobbies on Austin Energy issues. That group includes tech firms. "I would
think the council would be receptive."

The tech community has had a strained relationship with the Austin City Council
in the last year. Some tech entrepreneurs and startup founders were critical of
the City Council's votes to regulate ride-hailing firms and short-term rentals.
Some in the tech community said they feared the council's decisions would harm
Austin's reputation as a tech hub.

The Austin Technology Council has 280 member companies that represent a
workforce of more than 60,000. Some of its better-known members include Google,
HomeAway and Samsung. It started as the Austin Software Council in 1992, but
changed its name in 2002.

This year marks the first time the tech council has gotten involved in local
politics. Earlier this year, it endorsed Mayor Steve Adler's $720 million
transportation bond proposal.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 4, 2016 Monday
                                 Final Edition

New book offers in-depth examination of landscapes and ecosystems in Texas

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 556 words


Texas coal mining, fire ants, light pollution, monarch butterflies, Hill Country
springs, dams in the Big Bend: No topic appears to be too small or big for
inclusion in "The Texas Landscape Project."

Seemingly Victorian in its ambitions, the magisterial 500-page tome on the
nature and people of Texas recalls encyclopedias of yesteryear - but it's up to
date, with dozens of photos and maps including "Illegal Releases of Exotic Fish,
1880 to 2013" or "Natural Disaster Areas, June 2011."

In a way the book, which will be presented by authors David Todd and Jonathan
Ogren at BookPeople on Thursday, is a sequel to "The Texas Legacy Project:
Stories of Courage and Conservation," also co-authored by Todd.

That book, an oral history of the state's 20th century environmental struggles,
was about Texas' shift from a rural state to an urban one as the civil rights
movement stirs and industrialization booms.

"The Texas Landscape Project," published by Texas A&M University Press, is more
data-driven, full of meticulously cited empirical observations. A chapter about
the growth of Texas highways and migration into the state, for example, includes
this factoid: "U-Haul now reports that many Texas towns are found near the top
of its list of US one-way truck rental destinations, including Houston (#1), San
Antonio (#5), Austin (#6), and Dallas (#12)."

The book revels in the arcane: the spread of the Chinese tallow tree in an East
Texas preserve, for instance, or the growth of second hand-smoke protections
across the state.

But these are meant to illuminate greater truths about Texas. The section on
imported fire ants - "a certified member of the world of unwelcome pests," write
the authors - delves into their spread across the country and the state, the
difficulties involved in getting rid of invasive species and the impressive
resilience of the species.

A whole section is dedicated to "Upsets," or unplanned pollution, often from
refineries or manufacturing plants, and the consequences of climate change are
also featured - but the tone tends to be gently explanatory.

"We try not to be Pollyanna-ish," Todd said. "These are deep-seated problems,
but I don't want to be hysterical about it."

There are stories, too, with happy endings: the recovery of bison and of brown
pelicans, for instance.

"If every story is despair it's hard to have hope and faith," Todd said.

The scion of a ranching family long associated with conservation matters, and a
lawyer by training, Todd, who lives in Travis Heights, has spearheaded efforts
to clear invasive plants from Stacy Park and Blunn Creek to restore ecological
diversity.

He founded the Conservation History Association of Texas and has served on the
boards of a handful of environmental groups.

His partner on the project, Ogren, is a conservation and environmental planner,
cartographer and a University of Texas lecturer.

"The book has a broad spectrum of appeal," Ogren said, meaning it will serve as
a handy reference for teachers, students, policymakers and anyone else who wants
to know about the history and complexities of Texas ecosystems.

"These are all dynamic systems we all care about," Ogren said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

If you go
  The authors will talk about "The Texas Landscape Project" at BookPeople, 603
N. Lamar Blvd., at 7 p.m. Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 18, 2016 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Very different concerts from Stapleton, Hank Williams Jr.

BYLINE: Jake Harris American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPOR; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 502 words


Hank Williams Jr. might not have known who Chis Stapleton was before adding him
to his current tour this summer, but the Austin crowd at the Circuit of the
Americas Saturday night certainly knew the name of the Grammy-award-winning
singer.

At the beginning of the show, the crowd's roar for Chris Stapleton was much
louder than it was for Williams, but that's probably because most of the people
who only wanted to see Stapleton left midway through the show.

Watching the two different performances Saturday night at the Austin 360
Amphitheater felt like experiencing two completely opposite ends of the country
music spectrum, each with its different and desired effects. Stapleton proved
why he is the hot ticket item in country music at the moment with cuts from his
award-winning "Traveller" album, and the 67-year-old Junior showed he still
knows how to put on a show.

After a surprise appearance from Wade Bowen to start things off in the rain,
Stapleton took the stage and launched straight into "Nobody To Blame."

Stapleton got an assist from the weather. The constant drizzling rain during
Stapeton's set, combined with the earthy, lived-in sounds of "Outlaw State of
Mind" and "Was It 26," created an intimate setting in the 14,000-capacity
amphitheater. When it came time to perform "You Are My Sunshine" under dim stage
lighting with his wife Morgane, it felt like sitting around a haunted campfire.

Stapleton ended his set with three of his most popular songs to date, allowing
the audience to sing along. The hushed reverence the audience reserved for most
of Stapeton's songs gave way to enthusiastic singing for "Traveller," "Fire
Away" and closer "Tennessee Whiskey," which set the stage for the party antics
of Bocephus a few minutes later.

As Stapleton closed down his show, the rain halted, which signaled a bigger sea
change than just a drier climate. Even though this whole affair took place after
dark, the difference in the crowd for Hank Jr. was like night and day.

Taking the stage to a mash-up of Hank Williams and Hank Williams Jr. musical
name-drops from everyone from Alan Jackson to Kid Rock, Bocephus started his set
off with a cover of Waylon Jennings' version of "Are You Ready for the Country."

Where Stapleton's set felt like a meditative, slow-burning candle, Williams'
show felt like a dynamite blast, bursting with energy and stage banter. They
might not have known all the songs, but everybody in the audience was ready to
party. Stapleton let his music do most of the talking for him, but Williams
spoke freely to the crowd, regaling them with stories of his father's musical
heritage, often launching into cover songs from that era.

For Williams, the biggest family tradition is performing, and he certainly
carried that tradition proudly. And while at first it seemed odd to have him and
Stapleton on the same bill, by the end of the night, it became clear that
subverting expectations was another part of the Williams Family Tradition as
well.

Contact Jake Harris at 512-445-3584.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 26, 2016 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

Austin director Jeff Nichols' 'Loving' will open Austin Film Fest

BYLINE: Joe Gross American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T33

LENGTH: 776 words


Austin-based filmmaker Jeff Nichols' latest film, "Loving," will open the Austin
Film Festival in October.

Nichols, whose "Midnight Special" has become one of the year's best and
least-seen sci-fi movies, premiered "Loving" at Cannes in May. "Loving" is a
look at the struggle of Richard and Mildred Loving (Joel Edgerton and Ruth
Negga), whose civil rights case, "Loving v. Virginia," made Supreme Court
history.

AFF also plans to have "Everybody Loves Raymond" creator/AFF frequent flyer Phil
Rosenthal host this year's Film & Food Fundraising Party, the annual kickoff to
the Film Fest benefiting AFF's Young Filmmakers Program.

The complete list of programming at the 23rd annual AFF, including short films,
competition titles and conference panels, will be announced in mid-September,
but here is the second wave of films announced:

"Loving"

Opening night film

Texas premiere

Writer/Director: Jeff Nichols

Cast: Ruth Negga, Joel Edgerton, Michael Shannon, Nick Kroll

Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga star in the true story of Richard and Mildred
Loving, who waged a decade-long legal battle that led to the overturning of the
state of Virginia's law prohibiting interracial marriage.

"The Big Spoon"

World premiere

Writers: Mallory Culbert, Carlyn Hudson

Director: Carlyn Hudson

Cast: Zach Knighton, Nick Stevenson

Long-term couple Mallory and Ben plan to enjoy a romantic weekend alone in
Mallory's house, but their plans are ruined when Elle, Mallory's flighty
roommate, shows up with a surprise lover. As tensions rise, each couple is
forced to question the strength of their relationship.

"The Harvest Run"

World premiere

Writers/Directors: Steven Balvanz, Aaron McAdams

The Beckleys, a third generation farming family, gear up for the annual Harvest
Run â " a demanding seven-month journey that is essential to producing America's
annual yield of wheat and corn. Faced with the insurmountable hardships of the
American economy and climate change, the year's run proves more challenging than
ever.

"Holding Patterns"

World premiere

Writers/Director: Jake Goldberger

Cast: Freddie Highmore, Odeya Rush, Haley Joel Osment, Christopher Meloni

Mid-twenties, unmotiva-ted, and still living at home with his mother and
step-father, Charlie Brenner is given a surprising boost of confidence when he
meets Amber, a local barista. As they become closer, the line between friendship
and intimacy is blurred, and the situation forces them to examine where they are
in their respective lives. Charlie's situation is further complicated by the
sudden appearance of his estranged father.

"Lion"

Texas premiere

Writer: Luke Davies

Director: Garth Davis

Cast: Dev Patel, Nicole Kidman, Rooney Mara

Adapted from the nonfiction book "A Long Way Home," the film follows the
challenges a young Indian boy faces after taking a wrong train, being separated
from his family and being adopted by Australians. Twenty-five years later, armed
only with sparse information and Google Earth, he sets out to find his lost
family.

"The Man Who Was Thursday"

North American premiere

Writer/Director: Balazs Juszt

In a mind-bending metaphysical thriller, after his parish is disgraced, Father
Smith is called to Rome for spiritual rehabilitation. Upon Smith's arrival, his
spiritual mentor, Charles, tasks him with a mission to go underground to
discover the mysterious leader of an archaist group of renegades.

"No Retreat"

World premiere

Writers: J.D. Singer, Nicholas Zafonte

Director: Nicholas Zafonte

Fifteen years after graduating college, two college friends reconnect at a
weekend writers' retreat. As they struggle to attempt one last shot at a
creative lifestyle, the drama of old regrets, insecurity and unfinished romantic
business takes its toll.

"Suburban Cowboy"

World premiere

Writer: Ryan Colucci

Directors: Ryan Colucci, Dragan Roganovic

In this gritty story based on real events, a Long Island drug dealer find
himself in over his head once one of his soldiers robs a dealer with a
connection to ruthless Serbian gangsters. Now responsible for the debt, he is
forced to take drastic measures.

Drafthouse releases "Raiders!" on DVD and Blu-ray

Drafthouse Films has released Tim Skousen and Jeremy Coon's "Raiders!: The Story
of the Greatest Fan Film Ever Made" - the documentary about four friends who
made a shot-for-shot remake of "Raiders of the Lost Ark" over seven years - in a
region-free Blu-ray/DVD combo pack. Extras include: dual audio commentaries with
directors Skousen and Coon and subjects Chris Strompolos and Eric Zala, deleted
scenes from the documentary, outtakes from the adaptation, a Q&A from the 2003
premiere of the adaptation at the Alamo Drafthouse and more.

Contact Joe Gross at 512-912-5926.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 18, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Temporary fixes can aid school funding

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INST; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 896 words


When it comes to fixing the state's school financing system, we oftentimes have
urged lawmakers to overhaul it rather than just applying a Band-Aid. The biggest
problem is that the "state-funded" education system relies too heavily on local
property taxes, which now make up 48 percent of total public education funding.

By contrast, the state's share has shrunk to 41.4 percent for this school year.
The remainder, 10.6 percent comes from the federal government. Local taxpayers â
" particularly in districts such as Austin, Eanes, Lake Travis, Georgetown and
Marble Falls - are taking a financial beating.

Making matters worse is that much of that local revenue is not staying in local
districts to serve local students but being "recaptured" by the state to pay for
public education in other districts. That method, while legal as a tool to steer
more money to poorer districts, enables the state to shirk its responsibility
and evade accountability.

After all, it's local superintendents and school trustees who are in the hot
seat of explaining to their voters why their schools are underfunded even though
districts are taking in more money annually as a result of rising property
values.

To that point, we welcome the directive from Texas House Speaker Joe Straus, who
has called on two interim committees to study and make recommendations regarding
the state's school financing system, including examining "the use of local
property taxes to fund public education" and its impact on Texas taxpayers.

We have our doubts, however, that such efforts will lead to an overhaul. But
something must be done to generate relief for hundreds of school districts that
now are shouldering much of the state's burden in financing Texas' $42 billion
public education system, which serves about 5 million students.

Consider that in 1993, when the state first starting using recapture to help
balance inequities between high-wealth and low-wealth school districts, just 35
districts were classified as property-rich. And Austin was not one of them. That
has ballooned to 440 so-called property-rich districts, and Austin, with a
student population that is 60 percent poor, has become the single-largest payer
of recapture in Texas. In 2015, Austin accounted for 12.2 percent of the total
$1.49 billion collected in recapture by the state.

Given the political climate at the Legislature and the lack of a mandate from
the Texas Supreme Court requiring the state to bear its fair share of school
funding, our view is that a Band-Aid is a far more realistic fix than a total
overhaul. And for Central Texas school districts, a Band-Aid is better than no
aid.

In discussing those issues with area school district superintendents - Paul
Cruz, Austin; Tom Leonard, Eanes; Fred Brent, Georgetown; Brad Lancaster, Lake
Travis; and Chris Allen, Marble Falls - they and their budget chiefs recommended
several changes that could improve the system without overhauling it entirely.
We concurred with the following:

* Index school funding to inflation so that the state absorbs more of the costs
of funding basic education programs.

Doing that would help all districts, including property-rich ones, to keep pace
with rising costs of doing business, including increased maintenance costs,
expenses for goods and services and cost of living adjustments for employees.

* Tie property value increases to an increase in the basic allotment the state
contributes to the Foundation School Program.

If the state puts more in its primary funding method that could reduce recapture
payments for Austin and other property-rich districts and start reversing the
current trend of relying heavily on recapture payments to equalize education
funding. Doing nothing will push more districts into a recapture predicament.
This school year, for instance, the Houston district with a majority of
low-income students moved into the category of property-rich.

* Revamp outdated formulas for certain costs, such as the cost of education
index and the transportation allotment the state pays to property-poor
districts.

The idea is that costs are going up, such as salaries for teachers and other
employees, so the index should be adjusted to reflect rising costs. Also,
property-rich districts, including Austin, Eanes, Georgetown, Marble Falls and
Lake Travis, which don't receive transportation allotments from the state,
should be allowed to use such allotments as a credit against their recapture
payments. That would allow many Central Texas property-rich districts to keep
more of their local tax dollars, without harming property-poor districts.

We would urge Straus and other lawmakers to listen to their local elected
officials and superintendents to understand the pain the current system is
inflicting on taxpayers, schools, students and teachers. Leonard told us that
Eanes' taxpayers already are surrendering 59 percent of their property taxes
designated for operations. Similarly, Austin's chief financial officer, Nicole
Conley, said the district is giving up to the state nearly 40 percent of its
local taxes.

The recapture system never was intended to be used as a primary tool for
financing public education nor ensnare so many districts in its web. But it has.

The school financing system is in need of an overhaul. But lacking the political
will or courage for that, the Legislature at least should apply a Band-Aid.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               84 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Loss adds to leadership flux in city, county

BYLINE: Philip Jankowski American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 816 words


The announcement that Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo is heading to Houston has
placed Austin in a state of flux, with two of its most visible leaders - Acevedo
and former City Manager Marc Ott - leaving in a span of three months.

It also comes just as Travis County prepares to seat both a new district
attorney and a new sheriff, creating an extraordinary amount of transition in
local government and law enforcement. The changes to come have some worried
about the uncertainty being created, while others are looking at them as an
opportunity to shape a new era.

"I think this is an incredible opportunity for a new 10-1 council with voices
from all over the city with disparate ideas and thoughts to engage the larger
community and really put the 10-1 stamp on government moving forward," Mayor
Steve Adler said.

That stamp's impression is what worried local activist Meme Styles on Thursday.
The founder of the police accountability group Measure Austin said that, given
the current political climate nationally, anxiety over Acevedo's sudden
departure was unavoidable.

"Honestly, I kind of feel in the same way with the new (Trump) administration,"
Styles said. "My thoughts mimic that of insecurity and uncertainty, but I'm
still optimistic when it comes to the underserved working together and working
collaboratively."

Some have estimated that it could take a year or more to select a new police
chief. Filling that position could be complicated by the ongoing search for a
permanent city manager.

Interim City Manager Elaine Hart said that, no matter what, she would want the
new police chief to be selected by a permanent city manager.

"I would recommend that to the mayor and City Council," Hart said. "This is a
very key public position to the city and my commitment when named as the interim
(manager) to the city is that, on those kinds of decisions, I would hold off
until a permanent city manager is selected."

Acevedo's chief of staff, Brian Manley, has emerged as the likely interim police
chief, with several local leaders naming him specifically as the best choice for
a smooth transition.

Hart said she would pick an interim chief in the coming days and possibly as
early as Friday. Austin police union President Ken Casaday said that Manley is
the top candidate.

Local activist and Austin Justice Coalition co-founder Chas Moore said he would
welcome Manley as the interim chief and said that he would be in favor of Manley
assuming the job permanently since it would continue a relationship forged
recently between police and advocacy groups focused on police reform.

"I would be naïve to say that I wasn't concerned about Acevedo leaving, but I am
also hopeful enough that we can keep doing like we have been doing with the
Police Department," Moore said. "I am willing to go out there and push for him
to be the chief just because he has been there for 20-plus years."

Though a national search will be conducted by a private firm, Council Member
Leslie Pool said the winner might already be here.

"We have a deep bench of talent," Pool said, noting that Acevedo's departure to
a larger city shows that "Austin is a good proving ground that launches people
to bigger job opportunities."

Unlike Houston, which kept its search for a new chief shrouded in secrecy, Hart
said that Austin's search for a new chief will be out in the open.

It will emulate the 2007 process that led to Acevedo's hiring, with input from
advocacy groups and public forums for residents to weigh in.

Rumors of Acevedo being considered as Houston chief had been around for months
but recently grew in volume. Despite that, it appears that Acevedo didn't give
Adler or the City Council a chance to match Houston's offer. In previous years,
the council has reacted to Acevedo's considerations for other posts with pay
raises.

"From my perspective, this has come very quickly," Adler said. "I think that
this was an opportunity he felt he just needed to take."

Acevedo will helm a department more than twice the size of the Austin police
force, in the fourth-most populous city in the country. It also has the
potential to launch Acevedo - Texas' most savvy politician, according to Casaday
- to a national stage.

The outgoing chief's popularity soared during his 9½ years in Austin. Adler
called him a "celebrity" and a "rock star" at City Hall on Thursday.

However, whoever inherits Acevedo's job will face a department with low morale
among the rank-and-file officers, according to a recent survey conducted by the
police union. The new chief will also have to guide the department through the
reopening of a DNA lab that was shuttered after its practices were called into
question.

Casaday said he hopes the new chief would take a new approach toward discipline.

"Just someone who is fair and thought out in their discipline, that uses their
brain instead of their heart," he said.

Contact Philip Jankowski

at 512-445-3702.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 10, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

San Marcos gay bar emerges as LGBT hub

BYLINE: Anna Herod American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 839 words


SAN MARCOS - With an air of celebration, Stonewall Warehouse opened its doors as
San Marcos' first-ever gay bar in late 2014, the same year the city was painted
with the colors of the rainbow for its very first pride parade.

For many, the bar is a symbol of social progress in Hays County, previously a
severely underserved area in terms of LGBT-specific gathering places, said
Stonewall General Manager Chris Rue. But after an attack on a local drag
performer last month and amid concerns of what a Trump administration might
represent for LGBT rights, Stonewall is also becoming the cornerstone of a
budding support and safety network for the local LGBT community.

Popular Stonewall drag queen and San Marcos native Chitah Daniels Kennedy
remembers a pre-Stonewall San Marcos where local LGBT people hopped from bar to
bar, yearning for a common gathering place meant specifically for them.

"There was really, for several years, nothing for our community," Kennedy said.
"And not to have that, you know, it's like you're not recognized. You're almost
invisible. The community is there but you have no home base."

The bar opened in December 2014. Rue said Stonewall takes pride in being one of
the only bars in town that has an age limit as low as 18 years old because he
feels it's important for young people to feel welcome at a safe, fun place.

"I look at this also through the eyes of a student in that I, too, used to be 18
and closeted, and I know what it's like not to have a safe or welcoming place I
can go," Rue said.

He said couples from more conservative cities such as New Braunfels, Kyle,
Wimberley and Lockhart also frequent Stonewall on a regular basis.

Stonewall's purpose transcends that of a bar, he said, because as the local LGBT
home base, it serves as a community center of support during both good and bad
times.

"We're more than just some place to come and dance," Rue said. "When those super
highs are there, people want to gravitate and celebrate at Stonewall because
it's their place to come together. And then when tragedy happens, they want to
come and say, â  Hey, listen. This is a safe place that we can come and grieve
and cry together and talk about our own issues together.'"

He said that nationally, the LGBT community is still grieving the lives lost in
Florida earlier this year when an Orlando gay club became the target of the
deadliest mass shooting in modern American history.

In addition, Rue said, Stonewall's community is still trying to cope with a new
sense of heightened danger after Texas State University student and drag
performer Alejandro Camina was assaulted Nov. 14 after leaving the club. Camina
said his assailant targeted him for wearing heels and called him an anti-gay
slur while beating him.

"Orlando took us down lower than we thought we could ever go," Rue said. "And a
week after the presidential election... we have one of our performers and
friends, Alex, being attacked on the street and beaten up."

The day after Camina was assaulted, Kennedy, who serves as a mentor to more than
a dozen up-and-coming drag performers including Camina, and Rue worked together
to host the first of what they decided would become monthly community meetings
at Stonewall to discuss safety issues.

Kennedy said the first meeting provided an opportunity for the Stonewall
community to organize after President-elect Donald Trump's Nov. 8 victory, as
some fear members of the Trump administration - including officials such as Vice
President-elect Mike Pence, who has supported anti-LGBT legislation in the past
- might try to dismantle LGBT rights.

Kennedy believes people like Camina's assailant and the group of self-identified
Trump supporters who posted racist fliers on the Texas State campus after the
election have been directly emboldened by Trump. Kennedy noted that in today's
political climate, marginalized communities are feeling more vulnerable with
each day that passes.

"I'm from here, so to not feel safe walking down LBJ half a block to my car
really pisses me off," Kennedy said. "I've been doing that in drag and out of
drag for a long time now, and I haven't ever felt threatened on the street here,
and it really upsets me to feel that way. I don't want to feel like I have to
change into my jeans and sneakers when I leave the club, and I'm not going to."

Despite the present and future challenges the local LGBT community faces,
Kennedy said Stonewall has done nothing but strengthen and unite them since the
bar opened its doors two years ago.

"A lot of the kids have left home, they don't have their families here or
they're just coming out or maybe their families aren't accepting," Kennedy said
of Stonewall's younger crowd. "So it's important to have that support system,
not only among their peers, but to also have some older people who have been
through similar things... who can tell them it's going to be OK. To make them
laugh, to give them this outlet to be fabulous, to be confident. None of it
would be possible without Stonewall."

Contact Anna Herod

at 512-445-3931.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          December 14, 2016 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Trump to tap Perry as energy nominee

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1096 words


Former Gov. Rick Perry is President-elect Donald Trump's choice for secretary of
energy, joining the administration of a man he once warned would doom the
Republican Party to lead a department he once called for eliminating, or would
have if he could have remembered its name.

Perry's nomination for a place in the Trump Cabinet hasn't yet been formally
announced.

"Stay tuned," Jason Miller, spokesman for the presidential transition team, told
reporters Tuesday.

Tuesday's big announcement from the transition team was the nomination of
another Texan, Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson of Irving, to be Trump's secretary
of state. With Tillerson and Perry's addition to the administration, the next
Cabinet goes from one bereft of Texans to one with a decidedly Texas accent.

The secretary of state roams the globe on behalf of the administration, while
the secretary of energy leads a department that is charged with advancing the
national, economic and energy security of the United States; promoting
scientific and technological innovation; and overseeing the environmental
cleanup of the nation's nuclear weapons complexes.

Miller described Perry as "very skilled, very talented."

"We're big fans of Gov. Perry's. We think he did a fantastic job with the state
of Texas," Miller said. "We can talk about Texas' economic revival and a lot of
that had to do with the energy sector and that growth that the state saw during
Gov. Perry's watch."

The choice of Perry for a place in the Trump Cabinet is remarkable from every
vantage point.

Perry, during his second presidential campaign, was among Trump's most
vociferous critics, describing Trump in July 2015 as a "cancer on conservatism"
and a "barking carnival act" who was "appealing to the worst instincts in the
human condition."

And it was Perry, in his first presidential campaign, who at a Republican
presidential debate in November 2011, declared, "It's three agencies of
government when I get there that are gone: commerce, education, and the uh...
what's the third one, there? Let's see. The third one. I can't.... Oops."

It was an indelibly embarrassing moment that served as a death knell for his
once-promising presidential campaign, and, it turned out that the third agency
he wanted to eliminate but whose name eluded him was the very Energy Department
that the man who he had warned would lead the GOP the way of the Whig Party has
now asked him to lead.

Asked about the prospect that the president-elect might be naming an energy
secretary who thought the department ought to be eliminated, the Republican
National Committee's Sean Spicer, who also serves as a spokesman for the
Transition Committee, said Cabinet secretaries are chosen to implement the
president-elect's agenda.

"It's not a vice versa thing where we're buying into their agenda," Spicer said.
"They're buying into the president-elect's vision and his desire to see real
change brought to Washington."

Backing Trump

Perry was the first man to drop out of the crowded Republican field last year,
and he subsequently endorsed U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz for president. But, when Cruz
bowed out of the race after Trump beat him in the Indiana primary in May, Perry
threw himself behind Trump's candidacy with his trademark enthusiasm and made it
clear he would be delighted to serve in the New Yorker's administration in
whatever capacity Trump - who had suggested during the campaign that Perry
should have to take an IQ test to qualify for the debates - would find useful.

Perry campaigned for Trump and, in a page from the Trump reality TV playbook,
Perry also did a brief stint on "Dancing With the Stars," in which his sheer
ebullience compensated for his lack of experience or skills as a dancer, making
a winning impression before his early exit from the show.

Perry had also been talked about as a potential secretary of defense,
agriculture or veterans affairs.

"Rick Perry's Texas led the nation in job creation, wind energy, natural gas and
oil production and electric generation," said Ray Sullivan, former chief of
staff to Perry when he was governor and who also was the spokesman for Perry's
first presidential campaign.

"Perry's balanced regulatory policies reduced toxic air pollutants in Texas,
while encouraging job creation," Sullivan said.

"Overall, Rick Perry's experience reforming big government agencies, encouraging
job creation, championing a diverse and reliable energy portfolio, and serving
as an officer in the U.S. military are all stellar qualifications for a U.S.
energy secretary," Sullivan said.

Industry ties

Perry also serves on the board of Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners, a
pipeline company led by Kelcy Warren, who was the finance chairman of his second
presidential campaign. The company has faced stiff opposition to its Dakota
Access Pipeline project from environmentalists and the Standing Rock Sioux tribe
in North Dakota.

Friends of the Earth Climate and Energy Director Benjamin Schreiber described
that affiliation as enough to disqualify Perry.

"Gov. Perry also has serious conflicts of interest that should disqualify him
from the job," Schreiber said in a statement. "Perry is on the payroll of the
company that attacked indigenous people in an effort to forcibly construct the
Dakota Access Pipeline. Like his new boss, Gov. Perry will surely mine his
position for as much personal gain as he can find."

The current energy secretary is Ernest Moniz, a nuclear physicist.

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

RICK PERRY: ENERGY SECRETARY


Rex Tillerson: Secretary of State


Perry's energy industry ties
  Perry became a general partner at Energy Transfer Partners in February 2015,
the month after he left office.
  "The Board selected Mr. Perry to serve as a director because of his vast
experience as an executive in the highest office of state government," says the
 publicly traded company's 2015 annual filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.
  He was paid $236,820 in 2015, according to the report.
  In 2011, Energy Transfer Partners CEO Kelcy Warren gave $250,000 to the Make
Us Great Again super PAC that tried to help Gov. Rick Perry become president.
  In the latest election cycle, Energy Transfer Partners gave just over $1
million to the Opportunity and Freedom super PAC that supported Perry,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks money in
politics.
  On the state level, Perry long counted the energy industry as a dependable
source of campaign contributions, with high-money donors frequently tied to
oil, gas and nuclear waste.
  - Asher Price, American-Statesman staff


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 State Edition

Interior Secretary Jewell says little about Trump's pick to succeed her

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 345 words


On the morning President-elect Donald Trump named Republican U.S. Rep. Ryan
Zinke of Montana to be her successor, U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell said
in Austin that she couldn't yet assess how he will handle the job.

"We haven't worked close enough together where I could weigh in on that," Jewell
said at the American YouthWorks offices in South Austin. "I will be reaching out
to him to congratulate him and offer my services."

But she praised Zinke for supporting the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which
assists state and local governments in purchasing lands for public use and is
fiercely defended by conservationists.

"He's been supportive of something we've pushed hard for, which is permanent
reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which has helped
protect many, many lands for public use from local cities to national parks,"
she said.

Jewell, a former CEO of retailer REI, said the fact that Zinke comes from a
Western state will be "helpful" for him in leading the Department of the
Interior, which oversees federally owned land and includes the National Park
Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

"He's from the state of Montana. It's a state that has a number of good-sized
tribal communities, and so that's a big part of what Interior does," she said.

After it was reported earlier this week that Trump was considering Zinke for
interior secretary, environmentalists criticized the choice, noting his mixed
record on public land management issues. He has criticized the Obama
administration's efforts to fight climate change, which include assessing
projects on federal lands for their impact on global warming. The League of
Conservation Voters has given him a 3 percent rating for his voting record in
Congress.

Jewell was in Austin to unveil $350,000 in grant money raised from corporate
donors that will go to employing young people and veterans to work on
conservation projects. The Texas Conservation Corps will receive $39,000 for
work at Big Bend National Park.

Contact Sean Collins Walsh

at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @seancwalsh

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
