
                               1 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 15, 2000, Tuesday

Clue: You're getting warmer

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 475 words


'If Texas were a country. . . ." That's a popular introductory phrase for
amazing economic statistics about a big, booming and braggadocio-prone state.

But here's a fact that's hardly a brag: If Texas were a country, it would be the
world's seventh biggest source of the gases that worsen global warming.

The state is also extremely vulnerable to the harm that the "greenhouse effect"
causes : drought, flood, rising sea-levels, vanishing beaches and endangered
water supplies.

That's why an international environmental group wants Gov. George W. Bush to use
the authority the Legislature gave him in 1993 and draft a state plan for coping
with global warming.

The group also has a few suggestions for the governor.  "Texas Global Warming
Solutions," a report contending that job-creation and environmental progress are
compatible, is being released this week by the World Wildlife Fund.

The report says this electricity-gobbling state needs to shift from reliance on
carbon-based energy sources and get more power from clean, renewable energy
sources such as the sun and wind. The change would require construction and
building retrofits that could create up to 84,000 jobs by 2020, says Jennifer
Morgan of the fund's climate change campaign.

Her group focused on Texas and Florida (where another Gov. Bush is in charge) in
part because these two big coastal states are particularly vulnerable to
becoming smaller if climate changes cause sea levels to rise significantly.
Texas is also one of the world's biggest contributors to that change, says
Morgan. The environmentalist, based in Washington, D.C., plans to visit Austin
today to release the report in conjunction with two statewide groups.

She figures Texans already understand a thing or two about "extreme weather."
And they'll be seeing more of it as the world warms up: floods, drought, heat
waves, eroding beaches, algae blooms in the bays, coastal marshlands in decline
are a few of the "fingerprints" of global warming, she says.

Texas cities such as Austin already are under the gun to reduce health damage
from emissions of cars, industry and power plants. The urgency of that situation
is underlined by dramatic effects of climate change.

Texas, source of such a significant share of the carbon dioxide that is remaking
the world, should pay close attention to the study. And Texans should urge Gov.
Bush to put global warming high on the state's priority list.

After all, if Texas were a country, wouldn't it rather be known for being
resourceful, adaptable and a leader in creating a better world than as a
reckless producer of stuff that's smothering the planet?

(FROM BOX)

To learn more

* Information about global warming: www.panda.org/climate

* Information on Austin Energy's alternative power program:
www.austinenergy.com/greenchoice

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               2 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 18, 2000, Tuesday

Report: Earth may warm by 9 degrees

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 351 words


An early draft of an intently awaited report from the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change shows that human beings have "discernibly" influenced the
planet's climate, and the Earth's surface is likely to warm at least 2 degrees
and as much as 9 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the 21st century. The new
preliminary analysis released Monday by the international collaboration of
several hundred scientists, sponsored by the United Nations and the World
Meteorological Organization, contained virtually no surprises about the prospect
of continued global warming. It came to the same major conclusions in 1995, when
it stated that "the balance of evidence suggests a discernible human influence
on global climate."

Airport security company charged

WASHINGTON -- Fourteen people hired in the past few years to search carry-on
bags at Philadelphia International Airport had been convicted of felonies
including aggravated assault, robbery, theft and firearms violations, the
government said Monday in filing charges against a company that provides
security there. Argenbright Holdings Limited, the corporate parent of
Argenbright Security Inc., which is the largest provider of U.S.  airport
security personnel, pleaded guilty to two felonies and agreed to pay $1.2
million in fines and costs. Three former managers for the company were also
charged with felonies. Airlines, which are responsible for security at the
airports, are seeking to have the Federal Aviation Administration regulate
security companies directly.

Blacks win federal discriminationin race suit

WASHINGTON -- A judge for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has
ordered the Agriculture Department to promote two black managers who were denied
advancement because of their race. The men will receive promotions, four to five
years of back pay and $10,000 each for damages, the commission said Monday. The
commission in December dismissed a class-action claim by more than 300 black
Agriculture Department managers who said they were denied promotions because of
their race.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colonel pleads guilty: U.S. Army Col. James Hiett and his wife, Laurie,
leave federal court Monday in Brooklyn, where the former commander of U.S.
anti-drug efforts in Colombia pleaded guilty to a federal charge.  He admitted
that he knew his wife was laundering drug money but failed to turn her in.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               4 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 8, 2000, Monday

Scientists ready to try hurricane predictions; Technology helps

BYLINE: Bruce Taylor Seeman

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 901 words


WASHINGTON -- Wednesday is an important date on this year's weather calendar.
It's the day federal climatologists break away from their maps and computers to
forecast the coming hurricane season.

The announcement won't predict the most dangerous months or pinpoint cities at
risk. It will offer only a rough estimate o f the number of expected storms.

But beneath those sketchy details is an emerging truth, forecasters say: When a
hurricane roils the Atlantic, the seeds of destruction can be traced to water
temperatures in the Pacific, rains in the tropics and winds swirling around the
globe.

"Last year is when we nailed it down: the links between tropical rainfall and
the global impacts on hurricane activity," said Gerald Bell, a National Weather
Service meteorologist.

Until last year, the government didn't release seasonal hurricane forecasts.
That role had been assumed by William Gray, a respected Colorado State
University meteorologist whose predictions in the past 16 years have been an
early guide for residents or travelers along the coast.

But the weather service is wading in with confidence. By analyzing global
patterns of atmospheric winds and pressure, climatologists can now show more
reliably than in the past whether hurricane-influencing conditions will persist,
Bell said.

Technology is vital to the work. Satellites provide increasingly detailed
information. Advanced computers allow sophisticated analysis of weather
archives. With these tools, weather service meteorologists have drafted the
beginnings of a global weather portrait.

At the heart of their analysis is understanding rainfall in the tropics,
particularly the influence of the cyclical variations in Pacific Ocean
temperatures known as La Nia and El Nio on that rainfall.

Only in recent years, through historical analysis of weather data, have
scientists learned how El Nio and La Nia affect such distant weather as snowfall
in the Midwest.

Much of their knowledge they credit to Gray, who has long used history in his
hurricane forecasts.

The Atlantic spawns an average of 5.8 hurricanes each season. First in winter,
then again in spring, Gray predicts whether the coming season will be active,
inactive or about average.

He starts by checking current climate dynamics such as stratospheric winds at
altitudes of six miles and higher, Atlantic and Pacific ocean temperatures,
temperature and pressure gradients in West Africa, and African rainfall.

Then he compares those measures with data accumulated from 1950 to 1990.  With
those comparisons, his team predicts the number of tropical storms, plus how
many of those will become hurricanes and severe hur- ricanes.

"It takes him four to seven days to crunch the numbers," said Dave Weymiller, a
Colorado State spokesman.

Gray predicted nine hurricanes for 1999 -- one more than actually occurred.

His record over the years has been spotty. He has hit the actual number of
hurricanes in three years: 1986, 1991 and 1992. He was f arthest from the mark
in 1995, predicting only six hurricanes when there were actually 11.

Gray already has released his predictions for 2000. He envisions an active year,
with seven hurricanes, three in the most violent categories .

Meanwhile, weather service scientists, emboldened by Gray's efforts, began to
suspect that larger connections were at work for many major climate patterns.

Through a high-powered computer analysis of historical weather data, they
connected tropical rain patterns with global atmospheric winds and pressure.
Those patterns have a strong bearing on the weather conditions that spawn an
Atlantic hurricane: a thunderstorm off West Africa that moves over warm waters
without being interrupted by high-altitude crosswinds.

"The changes in winds over the Atlantic are not just confined to the Atlantic,"
Bell said. "They're associated with changes around three-quarters of the globe.
It's all connected, part of larger global wind patterns."

Last year brought the government's first official attempt at a full hurricane
season prediction. The 1999 forecast called for greater-than-average activity
with three or more major storms.

Like Gray's prediction, the weather service's 1999 forecast was accurate.

The season proved to be a doozy, with a dozen tropical storms, eight that
developed into hurricanes. Five of those were major storms -- defined as
Category 3 , 4 or 5 hurricanes.

"We're at ground zero on this," Bell said. "But the hope is, we'll have the
models to say, 'In this particular region, we'll have this number of
hurricanes.' "

Interest in having such forecasts is high.

"We use Dr. Gray all the time," said Loretta Worters, a spokeswoman for the
Insurance Information Institute. "He's been wrong in the past, but he's usually
a good indicator of what the season will be like. We try to get the message
out."

Mary Margaret Walker, a spokeswoman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
said seasonal predictions aren't yet specific enough to help disaster planners
position relief workers or supplies but still have value.

"It gives the public an idea what to expect; it gives us an idea what to
expect," she said. "And it's a chance to urge people in vulnerable areas to
takes steps to protect their families and homes."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerald Bell, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, helped
uncover the links between water temperatures in the Pacific, rains in the
tropics and winds swirling around the globe in the creation of hurricanes.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               5 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 21, 2000, Friday

Ocean oscillations could play havoc with weather

BYLINE: William K. Stevens

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 527 words


Changes in the Pacific Ocean are making it more likely that winter weather in
much of the United States will exhibit unusual warmth alternating with sharp
cold, scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., reported
Wednesday.

The researchers said the pattern, prevalent this winter and last, might
predominate for 20 or 30 years. The finding was based on calculations of the
movement and temperature of ocean surface waters -- and the varying amounts of
heat they bear -- based on measurements made by instruments on the
Topex/Poseidon Earth satellite.

The data reflect a natural oscillation in ocean conditions, not a sign of global
climate change.  The development isn't tied directly to El Nio-La Nia weather
patterns, the year-to-year variations in ocean temperatures that set off
atmospheric chain reactions in many parts of the world, including North America.

But if the satellite images do indeed signal the beginning of a new climatic
regime in the Pacific, there will be "fewer and weaker El Nios and more La
Nias," said Bill Patzert, a research oceanographer at the Pasadena laboratory.

In the natural weather phenomenon known as La Nia, sea-surface temperatures in
the eastern tropical Pacific are cooler than normal. This sets off a series of
atmospheric events that affect weather patterns around the globe, especially in
North America in the winter.

El Nio is marked by abnormally warm sea-surface temperatures in the tropical
Pacific, which touch off a different set of winter weather, often including
heavy rains across the southern tier of the United States.

But there is also a larger natural oscillation going on in the Pacific involving
a flip-flop in sea-temperature patterns on a scale of decades. When the ocean
flips from one of these states to another, Patzert said, "it resets the stage
for the climate system; it provides a new background on which smaller events
like El Nio and La Nia can occur."

In one of these alternating states of what is called the Pacific Decadal
Oscillation, sea-surface temperatures are warmer in the eastern equatorial
Pacific but cooler throughout much of the rest of the Pacific basin. That
pattern predominated from the mid-1970s through most of the 1990s. It was also a
period of more frequent and stronger editions of El Nio.

For the past two years, the opposite pattern has appeared: cooler water in the
eastern tropical Pacific but warmer elsewhere. That pattern last predominated
from the mid-1940s to the mid-1970s.

While Patzert and other scientists said they believed that a flip from one phase
of the oscillation to another has occurred, they also said it was too soon to
tell whether it represented a true shift from one multidecadal regime to the
other.

The shift is only 2 years old, and whether it will last for a full 20 or 30
years remains to be seen.

If a longer-term shift has occurred and La Nia materializes more frequently as a
result, this winter's highly variable pattern of weather probably would become
more familiar.

The Climate Prediction Center at Camp Springs, Md., has forecast La Nia to
persist into spring, then fade.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this satellite image taken the week of Jan. 8, the cool surface
waters symptomatic of La Nia are represented by darker colors. North America is
at upper right.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               6 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 7, 2000, Thursday

Local warming, global warming -- it's the same thing

BYLINE: Gary Chapman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 787 words


I don't need to tell you, it's been hot as hell's hinges in Central Texas
lately. For the first time, I've heard people here wonder aloud whether they can
stay in Austin if future Texas summers are going to be as hot as the one we're
having this year.

It's time to check in with Bruce Sterling.

Sterling, Austin's most famous science fiction novelist and one of the country's
most entertaining public speakers, has taken up global warming as his personal
cause over the past two years. In 1998, he started an Internet mailing list on
the subject, called "Viridian Notes," which now has about 1,200 subscribers
worldwide . Sterling has been passing around a growing compendium of
information, resources, Web links, commentary and news about global climate
change.

"This is a harbinger, big time. It's finally coming," he said, when we talked
about the local heat earlier this week. "This is just the beginning. The 20th
century is nothing compared to what lies ahead of us.  It's getting scary now.
It's even scarier to watch people denying it."

There is controversy among weather watchers over whether the heat plaguing many
parts of the country is the product of global climate change or a transient
phenomenon, such as La Nia in the Pacific Ocean.

But when we see temperatures like we've been living with, combined with record
heat in California (the Bay area hit 114 in July), historic wildfires all over
the West, a scorching heat wave in southern Europe (110 in Zagreb in June) and
power grids straining to keep up with demand, it's enough to make you wonder.
Then there was that large stretch of ocean found at the North Pole recently,
which had previously been all ice.

"Tell me what a global weather pattern is," says Sterling. "All local weather is
part of global weather. Finding alternative explanations is part of a standard
of proof that is irrelevant. No council of elders is going to show up and say,
'OK, we've overdone it.'. . . If it had been provable, we wouldn't have marched
this way. Was there anyone ever around to tell you that Labor Day 2000 would be
the hottest day in Austin history?

He adds, "You're dead of local heat stroke, not global heat stroke. Of course,
there are forces of denial now."

Sterling said that as a science-fiction writer, "It's my business to stay ahead
of trends. This is big, it's tearing loose here. It's getting worse faster than
I expected." He wrote a novel about dangerous weather patterns in Texas in 1994,
the book "Heavy Weather." "It scares me about how accurate that book looks now,"
he said.

The United States has been dilatory and dithering when it comes to doing
something about global warming. Discouragingly, it's become a partisan issue.
"What should be a thoughtful debate about what's the best way to approach the
problem has instead turned into a crazy discussion over whether or not the
science is real," M. Granger Morgan, a professor of engineering and public
policy at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, told IEEE Spectrum magazine
this month. The U.S. Congress has so far refused to sign the Kyoto treaty on
global warming, a treaty that looks dead now without U.S. participation. Other
nations are way ahead of us in addressing global climate change.

Sterling compares the global warming issue to smoking. "We've got a smoking
problem, a planetary smoking problem. We've been jamming black stuff into our
chimneys, burning it up and puffing it and blowing all this carbon dioxide into
the atmosphere. And there's the same kind of denial about this smoking problem
as there was about tobacco."

The solution is a "post-carbon" economy. Sterling says that one great benefit of
the Internet is that it has shown the economy can be revolutionized without
coercion or great upheaval. "The Internet removes the logjam of the installed
industrial base," he said. "If we can do e-commerce, we can do renewable
energy."

As it happens, the Texas Renewable Energy Roundup will be in Fredericksburg from
Sept. 29 through Oct. 1 (http://www.RenewableEnergy

Roundup.com/). The event will feature workshops on solar, wind and biomass
energy, green building and organic farming. These topics are important to
everyone now, not just just hippies and hobbyists.

"The solution is not to outlaw carbon dioxide," says Sterling. "That's not going
to go away. The solution is to re-engineer the industrial base." That's going to
be the biggest challenge for human civilization for the foreseeable future. We'd
better get started.

Chapman is director of The 21st Century Project at the LBJ School. He can be
contacted at gary.chapman@mail.utexas.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               9 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 14, 2000, Friday

Global warming indeed is occurring; Scientists find rising

BYLINE: Joby Warrick

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 777 words


A worldwide rise in temperatures at Earth's surface is undoubtedly real and
appears to have accelerated in recent decades, an independent scientific panel
concluded in a report released Thursday.

The panel estimated the increase in temperatures over the past century between
0.7 and 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit -- a 30 percent increase from earlier projections
that reflects record-shattering high temperatures in the late 1990s.

Partly deflating a key argument used by skeptics of global warming, the report
dismissed as insignificant a glaring contradiction between two sets of
measurements that have tracked temperature change over recent decades. Although
land-based weather stations have shown a rise in temperatures, satellites that
record temperatures in Earth's upper atmosphere have shown little change in 20
years.

"The difference between the surface and upper-air trends in no way invalidates
the conclusion that the Earth's temperature is rising," said John Wallace, a
professor of atmospheric sciences at the University of Washington and chairman
of the panel.

However, Wallace said, the disparity between the two sets of measurements points
up weaknesses in scientists' ability to predict warming. Most climate
-forecasting models have predicted corresponding increases in temperature on
land and in the air.

"There really is a difference between temperatures at the two levels that we
don't fully understand," Wallace said at a news conference in San Francisco,
where the results were released at the annual meeting of the American
Meteorological Society.

The 11-member panel, which was organized by the National Academy of Sciences'
National Research Council, included the two scientists responsible for tracking
satellite temperature measurements.

Roy Spencer, of NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, and John Christy, of the
University of Alabama in Huntsville, had been among a vocal minority of
atmospheric scientists who argued that Earth's warming -- if it were occurring
at all -- was likely mild. While concurring with the panel's conclusions,
Christy said predicting climate trends remains fraught with peril.

"It is still not clear whether this is a representative sample that will tell us
how the greenhouse effect will be played out in the future," he said.

The report did not explain the reason for the warming. Many scientists believe
the century's warming is at least partly the result of man-made pollution --
higher levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that trap the sun's
heat like an insulating blanket. Further warming could disrupt agriculture and
cause sea levels to rise, swamping coastal cities, scientists say.

The chief task of the National Research Council panel was to attempt to
reconcile the differences between the observed temperature changes on land and
in the troposphere, the layer of the atmosphere that extends six to nine miles
above Earth. For years, the lack of notable warming in the 21-year satellite
record provided potent ammunition to global warming skeptics, who viewed the
land-based temperature measurements as less than reliable.

In recent months, small computing errors were detected in satellite readings,
which, when corrected, showed a slight warming trend in the upper atmosphere.

Still, a disparity remains.

Although the difference still cannot be fully explained, the panel found several
factors that could have slowed the rate of warming high above Earth. Possible
explanations include atmospheric cooling from volcanic eruptions in the 1990s
and the depletion of Earth's ozone layer.

Also, the 20-year satellite record is too short to be reliable in analyzing
long-term trends, the report said.

The council's study was immediately hailed by environmental groups that have
called for reduction in greenhouse gases to slow the warming trend.

"It totally deflates the argument of the so-called skeptics that had used the
apparent difference between ground-based and satellite data to argue that we
really didn't know whether the world is warming or not," said Michael
Oppenheimer, an atmospheric scientist with the Environmental Defense Fund.

But Arthur Robinson, president and professor of chemistry at the Oregon
Institute of Science and Medicine, called the report a political document and
evidence that the "National Academy board has pretty much been taken over by
enviros." He contended that any global warming was part of a natural trend.

"One must not lose track of the fact that the Earth's temperature has been
warming now for 300 years, not just 50 years. And there was no coal or gas 300
years ago," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               10 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 5, 2000, Saturday

Study connects El Nio with diarrhea increase

BYLINE: Emma Ross

SECTION: News; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 443 words


LONDON -- After linking El Nio with illnesses such as malaria, cholera and
dengue fever, scientists now have connected the climatic phenomenon with an
increase in childhood diarrhea.

The research, led by the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, also suggests
for the first time that gradual temperature increases related to global warming
could foster outbreaks of diarrhea in children living in developing nations.

Diarrhea kills as many as 3 million children under the age of 5 worldwide every
year and sickens millions more, mostly in developing countries.

It normally is more prevalent during the warmer seasons, but, until now, experts
didn't know whether a change in temperature could play a role.

The study of 57,331 children in Lima, Peru, found that an increase in diarrhea
cases between 1993 and 1997 was linked to even small rises in temperature,
regardless of whether it was summer or winter. In fact, the effect was greater
in winter, even though the weather was cooler.

Overall, the study, published in the most recent issue of The Lancet medical
journal, found that for every 1 degree centigrade (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit)
hotter than normal it became, 8 percent more children arrived at a local clinic
for treatment of diarrhea.

The findings were similar for the 1997-1998 El Nio period.

The number of children brought to the clinic that winter was double what would
have been expected for that time of year had El Nio not occurred, the study
found.

El Nio, which creates unusual weather patterns around the world by warming
involves the equatorial waters in the Pacific , raised winter temperatures in
Lima by about 7 degrees Fahrenheit (about 4 degrees centigrade).

A similar increase in temperatures brought on by El Nio in the summer was still
connected to more diarrhea than usual, but the effect wasn't as strong,
accounting for a 50 percent rise in diarrhea cases, the researchers found.

"The potential effect of global warming on disease is controversial," said
William Checkley of Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins, who led the study. "This
study suggests there may be something to it for diarrhea."

It's plausible the findings could apply in countries other than Peru, said Dr.
Tony McMichael, an epidemiology professor at the London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine who studies the effects of climate on disease.

"A large proportion of infectious disease agents are very sensitive to slight
changes in climate," said McMichael, who wasn't part of the study. "This would
give us an indication of how diarrhea agents react to changes in temperature in
general, whether in water or in food."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               13 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 14, 2000, Saturday

Tobacco pushers, on a global level

BYLINE: Mary Alice Davis

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 599 words


The varied voices in a new documentary on tobacco addiction take the audience on
a global tour, even without the visual images.

Addressing unseen interviewers, speakers describe international promotion of
smoking in the accents of Czechoslovakia, Vietnam, India, Russia, Malaysia and
-- no doubt about it -- Central Texas.

U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, the Austin native who has represented Travis County in
Congress since 1994, takes a central role in "Making a Killing," a recently
released film designed to spur viewer action.  Recurring amid interviews filmed
around the world, Doggett's Texas-tinged tones stand out. So does his outrage.

The film is subtitled "Philip Morris, Kraft and Global Tobacco Addiction." The
Marlboro man wears a black hat and plays the heavy. The story line dwells on his
creepy come-ons to kids abroad.

The filmmakers describe how the heavy's corporate parent, Philip Morris,
promotes its warm-and-fuzzy image at home through homey promotions of its food
products. Macaroni and cheese, Jell-O and cookies spell warmth and comfort,
right?

They also spell "plausible deniability," Doggett observes. Political candidates
can claim their campaigns don't take tobacco money, they take mac-and-cheese
money.

Doggett keeps the fight against tobacco pushers near the top of his
congressional agenda. From his position on the House Ways and Means Committee,
he rails against export subsidies that cost U.S. taxpayers millions of dollars
and spread fatal disease. Used as directed, cigarettes kill their users, he
says. The Democratic former Texas Supreme Court justice reserves particular fury
for targeting of young smokers.

"If a company that operates out of Richmond, Va., is addicting kids in Austin,
Texas, that's wrong," Doggett says in the film. "But if they're addicting kids
halfway around the world, that's equally wrong, and I'm outraged by it."

The documentary was produced by Infact, a group that rallies opposition to
corporate acts it considers damaging. The group won an Academy Award in 1991 for
"Deadly Deception: General Electric Nuclear Weapons and Our Environment." It
also organized an international boycott of Nestle to protest manufactured infant
formula.

Smoking kills more than 4 million people each year, the World Health
Organization estimates. Tobacco use is surging in developing countries, and the
health organization expects the death toll to rise to 10 million a year by 2030.
Treatment of smoking-related diseases sucks up the meager public health
resources of poor countries.

The global health organization accuses Philip Morris and other tobacco companies
of waging a clandestine war against its efforts to curtail smoking and of
generating phony research that diminishes dangers of smoking.

Doggett hasn't met with much luck in his efforts to curb tax subsidies of U.S.
tobacco exports. The subsidies total about $100 million a year, he says. They
constitute a moral wrong that Congress should quash, he argues.

The Infact documentary is opening in major international cities, including
Houston, this month. Doggett participated in the Washington, D.C.  premiere,
along with filmmakers Kelly Anderson and Tami Gold.

News reports of the premiere did not mention what snacks were served at the
celebratory event, but it seems safe to guess that macaroni and cheese from a
box was not on the menu. Infact is urging a boycott of Kraft products.

Davis is an American-Statesman editorial writer. You may contact her at
mdavis@statesman.com or 445-3635.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Making a Killing' was produced by Infact, which opposes international
corporate acts it considers damaging.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               14 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 3, 2000, Sunday

It might be hot, but it could be worse; Austin could tie heat record,

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 623 words


Hottest Austin summer you remember? Well, in total triple-digit highs, it's been
the hottest one since 1998, according to the National Weather Service.

Austin has recorded 35 such days this year and is expected to add another one
today -- more than three times the annual average of 10. There were 37 days in
1998 when the temperature hit 100 degrees or higher.

The 100 degree or higher tally for 2000 at Camp Mabry in West Austin -- at 102
years, the city's oldest temperature database -- is closing in on two more large
tallies: the 37 days of 1998 and the 40 days of 1963.

Forecasters say the 1998 and 1963 tallies are ripe for topping, since
triple-digit days are expected through Thursday. If that happens, this would be
the hottest summer since 1925.

KVUE chief meteorologist Mark Murray thinks the 1963 total should be Austin's
record. But the National Weather Service gives that honor to the 69 days
recorded in 1925.

Murray's disagreement hinges on several flaws he discovered in the Austin
climate database's temperature record for the 1920s ; he considers the records
from 1923 to 1926 unreliable.

Everyone in the weather business concedes that climate databases are flawed. But
mistakes seldom are discovered and corrected.

Murray recently found one in Austin's triple-digit-day records and persuaded the
National Weather Service to change it.

He showed Larry Peabody, a meteorologist at the weather service's forecast
center in New Braunfels, who is a keeper of the Austin database, an apparent
coincidence that Peabody agreed was too amazing to be a coincidence.

Murray found that the daily temperature records for July and August of 1923 were
identical.

"That just doesn't happen," Peabody said.

"Someone, somewhere, just copied one month's records to the next," Murray said.

The discovery eliminated what was thought to be Austin's record for triple-digit
days: 71 in 1923.

Murray then went after the 1925 record of 69 days.  He argues that little is
known about the management of Austin's official thermometer in the mid-1920s.

About all that anyone remembers is that from 1923 to 1926, the thermometer was
maintained at the University of Texas, where it was moved around the campus
several times. The U.S. Weather Bureau (forerunner of the National Weather
Service) took over the thermometer when the bureau came to town in 1927.

Back then, daily high and low temperatures were tallied with pen and ink after
observation of the mercury level in the thermometer. The highs and lows now are
automatically recorded by electronic sensors wired to a computer.

Murray used the San Antonio records of 1925 to challenge Austin's. In the past
30 years, he said, the average July highs for Austin and San Antonio rarely have
differed by more than 1 or 2 degrees. The biggest difference he found was 2.1
degrees in 1977.

"But, for some odd reason," Murray said, "Austin's average high for July of 1925
was four degrees warmer than San Antonio. In the world of statistics, that
sticks out like a sore thumb."

Bob Rose, chief meteorologist at the Lower Colorado River Authority, agreed. But
Peabody demurred.

"He may have a valid point," Peabody said of Murray. "But I can't arbitrarily
change the numbers. The 1925 data, as far as I'm concerned, is accurate."

Murray is sticking to the 40 days of 1963. He tells KVUE viewers that is
Austin's record. In addition to the flaw he sees in the 1925 data, he just
thinks 69 triple-digit days is too unsettling.

"No reason to make Austin sound hotter than we already are," he said.

You may contact Dick Stanley at dstanley@statesman.com or 445-3629.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: When the mercury rises, folks in Austin know they must take extra care
when working or playing outdoors. Such was the case Saturday when the
temperature soared to 107 degrees.  First, one must stay hydrated.  Above,
referees Calvin Townes, left, and Tony Hall kept plenty of water on hand for a
football game at Yellow Jacket field in East Austin.  Second, one must stay
cool. Below, Lauren Delacruz found that ice did the trick for her. // Mark
Murray: Meteorologist found that data from July and August 1923 were the same,
annulling that year's record. // With the temperature inside higher than the
temperature outside Saturday -- he doesn't have air conditioning -- Hugh
Alexander , 76, sought shade under a tree and a cool mist at his East Austin
home.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               15 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 2, 2000, Sunday

Science made significant gains during 1999; Astronomy, genetics and

BYLINE: Richard L. Hill

SECTION: News; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 2263 words


1999 ushered out a century of extraordinary progress in every field of science,
from gaining an understanding of atoms and genes to learning more about the
solar system and distant galaxies.

The next 100 years pose serious challenges to scientists, including a growing
population and climate change.

In 1999, Earth's population reached 6 billion, double the number of people who
inhabited the planet in 1960. Poverty deprives nearly 1 billion people of the
most basic needs, including food, clean water, shelter and medical care. Every
20 minutes, the world adds 3,500 human lives but loses one or more species of
animal or plant life. Balancing the requirements of a growing population with
the necessity of conserving Earth's natural assets is a formidable task.

Just as the 20th century began with the worst natural disaster in U.S. history
-- a hurricane in 1900 that killed 8,000 people in Galveston -- it ended with
devastating earthquakes that took more than 17,000 lives in Turkey and 2,300
lives in Taiwan. Floods and mud slides also killed thousands of people last
month in Venezuela. Perhaps the next few decades will produce innovative ways of
predicting and curbing the effect of devastating quakes and extreme climate
events.

But just as people in 1899 would have been astonished if they had known what the
new century would bring, the 21st century's achievements can be expected to be
just as mind-boggling. The advances of the past year give tantalizing hints of
what is to come.

Here's a look back at a few of 1999's significant scientific events and
discoveries, and a preview of what to expect in 2000:

Planets and beyond

Although the devastating loss of two costly spacecraft -- the Mars Polar Lander
and the Mars Climate Orbiter -- dampened enthusiasm for exploring Earth's
neighbor, the nation's space program had important successes.

The Chandra X-ray Observatory, released into orbit by shuttle astronauts in
July, has been sending a steady stream of astounding images, providing insights
into exploding stars, black holes, distant quasars and galaxies.

Last month, astronauts replaced six gyroscopes and other instruments on its
older cousin, the Hubble Space Telescope, which will celebrate its 10th
anniversary in April. Expect the instrument to continue to provide phenomenal
insights into our solar system and the cosmos.

Work will continue on piecing together the International Space Station. Six
space shuttle flights are planned in 2000 to assemble station components, with a
three-man crew scheduled to set up shop there in March. Assembly of the $21
billion station is expected to be complete in 2004.

Several spacecraft are collecting information about other planets in the solar
system. The 3-year-old Mars Global Surveyor continues to orbit the red planet,
completing the first detailed surface maps. Meanwhile, the Galileo spacecraft
flew by Jupiter's moon, Io, providing images of more than 100 active volcanoes
and massive lava flows.

Four of the year's most significant findings in astronomy concerned planets
outside the solar system. Astronomers announced in April that they had found the
first solar system beyond our own, detecting three large planets around Upsilon
Andromeda, a star 44 light-years away.

In November, separate groups of astronomers announced evidence of the first
known planet orbiting a pair of stars, the first distant planet observed passing
in front of its star and six new planets orbiting nearby stars.

Gene journeys

In one of the year's most notable achievements, an international research team
passed a major scientific milestone by unraveling for the first time the genetic
pattern of a human chromosome.

The team of American, British and Japanese scientists announced in December that
they had deciphered the DNA sequence of most of chromosome 22. They determined
more than 33 million bases -- the chemical building blocks of DNA -- of the
chromosome and identified at least 545 genes. By March, the scientists expect to
have a working draft of the entire book of human chromosomes, a feat that will
provide the tools necessary to understand the basic elements of life and to
thwart many genetic diseases.

In another achievement that may one day give scientists the ability to boost
human intelligence, researchers reported they have genetically modified mice to
have improved learning and memory. Researchers at Princeton University found
that adding a single gene to mice significantly boosted the animals' ability to
solve maze tasks, learn from objects and sounds in their environment, and retain
that knowledge.

The work with the strain of mice, named Doogie, reveals a common biochemical
mechanism at the root of nearly all learning.

Work with genetically modified plants also continued. The ritual of mowing lawns
may soon be relegated to history with the discovery of a new "dwarf" gene that
limits plant stem growth. The gene, called BAS-1, can potentially serve as a
"volume knob" that would allow growers to set the height of grass, trees and
other plants.

Expect additional advances in genetic alterations to increase plant yields and
help plants resist pests and drought. Also expect critics to question the
technology's safety.

Probing particles

Physicists gained new insights in a wide variety of subjects, from light to
subatomic particles.

A Harvard physicist and her collaborators accomplished one of the year's most
notable achievements by slowing the speed of light to a leisurely 38 mph.
Nothing in the universe moves faster than light, which normally goes through a
vacuum at about 670 million mph.

"We have really created an optical medium with crazy, bizarre properties," said
Lene Vestergaard Hau, whose team achieved the feat in slowness by shooting a
laser through extremely cold sodium atoms, which worked like optical molasses to
slow the light. Although slow-speed light is just a laboratory plaything now,
Hau thinks practical applications are not too far away. She envisions improved
communications technology, television displays and night-vision devices. Another
research team discovered two new artificial elements that are the heaviest ever
seen. The elements, 116 and 118, were produced in a cyclotron, or atom smasher,
at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif.

Scientists, including Walter D. Loveland of Oregon State University, created the
elements by bombarding targets of lead with an intense beam of high-energy
krypton ions. The discovery is a step toward the "island of stability," a
situation long sought by nuclear scientists in which super heavy elements might
be created to last long enough to study instead of instantly decaying.

The elements existed only about a ten-thousandth of a second, but "from our
point of view, that's long-lived -- long enough to be measured," Loveland said.

Physicists at Cornell University shed new light on chemical bonding by combining
a single molecule with a single atom to form a new molecule. Physics professor
Wilson Ho and graduate researcher Hyojune Lee used a specially designed scanning
tunneling microscope to pick up single molecules of carbon monoxide and graft
them onto an iron atom to form molecules of iron carbonyl.

The work demonstrates a technique for single molecule formation and learning
more about chemical bonds. Lee noted that the technology could have applications
in nanofabrication, the creation of materials and devices at the atomic or
molecular level.

Past lives

Scientists learned more about our ancient relatives this year.

An extinct species of human, Neanderthals, received a lot of attention. A team
of French and U.S. archaeologists found evidence from a cave site in
southeastern France that Neanderthals practiced cannibalism.

Another study found that Neanderthals and modern humans may have coexisted in
Central Europe for thousands of years, possibly mating. Bones found in the
Vindija cave site in Croatia yielded the youngest radiocarbon dates ever, 28,000
to 29,000 years, for Neanderthal remains, said Fred Smith, an anthropologist at
Northern Illinois University. Smith said it was the strongest evidence yet that
the primitive Neanderthals lived at the same time and in the same place as
modern humans.

On the other side of the world in Argentina, archaeologists unearthed the frozen
remains of two girls and a boy at the top of a volcano in the Andes. Incan
priests are thought to have sacrificed the children to their gods five centuries
ago. The mummies are in such good condition that the organs are intact. Studies
of the preserved body tissues, using DNA techniques and other recent advances,
could increase the understanding of a civilization that had no written language.

As many as 10,000 mummies in a remote Egyptian desert oasis may shed light on
the period 2,000 years ago when Rome ruled the land of the pharaohs. Research
teams excavated 105 mummies, some covered in a thin layer of gold.

Egypt also may have been the area where the first alphabet originated. A
traveler in the 1900s B.C. stopped at a rock and inscribed his name, his title
and probably a short prayer for safe passage. The discovery of the traveler's
ancient calling card, and another similar to it, indicates that the first
alphabet is centuries older than previously thought. Until now, scholars thought
the alphabet was invented in the 1700s B.C. in the Levant region, what is now
Syria, Lebanon and Israel.

Analysis of the bones of a 15 million-year-old skeleton unearthed in Kenya
indicates they belonged to a previously unknown animal type that might be a sort
of great-uncle to our oldest direct relative. The partial skeleton came from an
animal about "the equivalent of a large modern male baboon," said one of its
discoverers, Steve Ward of Northeastern Ohio University's College of Medicine
and Kent State University. It weighed about 60 pounds and stood 4 to 5 feet
inches with a long, flexible spine and strong, grasping hands.

Ancient creatures

Several dinosaur discoveries this year led paleontologists to rethink their
notions about the critters.

The jaws of two of the oldest dinosaurs were unearthed by scientists in
Madagascar. The fossils are from 225 million to 230 million years ago, the
middle to late Triassic Period. These dinosaurs -- which appear to be older than
Herrerasaurus and Eoraptor, the current record-holders for dinosaur seniority --
were prosauropods, plant-eaters with small heads and long necks that could walk
on two or four legs.

A primitive long-necked dinosaur that weighed about 20 tons and grew to a length
of 70 feet is the newest species to be plucked from the Sahara. The new
dinosaur, Jobaria tiguidensis, lived about 135 million years ago. It was found
in the Republic of Niger by a team led by Paul Sereno of the University of
Chicago.

John Ruben and his colleagues at Oregon State University drew international
attention when they reported that birds probably did not evolve from any known
group of dinosaurs. Illuminating a 113 million-year-old fossil of a baby
meat-eating dinosaur with ultraviolet light, they found evidence that its
breathing apparatus was more similar to modern crocodiles than birds.

Their finding reignited the debate as to whether birds evolved from dinosaurs.

Researchers in Argentina also discovered a dinosaur nesting ground that was
strewn with thousands of eggs, dozens of which still have unhatched dinosaur
embryos inside. In addition to tiny embryonic bones, many of the eggs contain
patches of delicate fossilized skin, providing the first glimpse of the soft
tissue covering baby dinosaurs. The nesting site of giant plant-eating dinosaurs
called sauropods is about 70 million to 90 million years old.

TOP SCIENTIFIC EVENTS IN 1999

Describing 1999 as "a banner year for science," the editors of Science magazine
made these oicks:

1

Stem cells:

Progress towards controlling human stem cells, which can grow into all the
body's types of cells. May lead to treatments for a variety of diseases.

2

Genomes:

Entire genetic codes were deciphered, new technologies developed and progress on
the human genome project accelerated.

3

Fermion condensate:

Creation in the lab of a bizarre ultra-cold gas that may one day yield clues to
the basic nature of matter. It may also lead to new atmoic clocks and laser.

4

Ribosome structure:

First maps of the molecular structure of ribosomes, the tiny organs whwhere a
cell makes proteins according to the instructions on its DNA chain.

5

New planets:

A flood of new reports of planets orbiting around nearby stars brought the total
known to almost 30.

6

Memory:

Discoveries on how memories form. Researchers watched as the chemical process
took lpace on tiny "spines" on nerve cells.

7

Flat universe:

Researchers confirmed that space was stretched flat in the first instants after
the Big Bang.

8

Photonic crystals:

Devices that contrl light the way semiconductors control a flow of electrons.
New devices using photonic circuits are expected to be fast and
energy-efficient.

9

First life on Earth:

Chemists analyzing fosils in Australia discovered that complex forms of life
evolved on Earth 2.7 billion years ago -- 1 billion years earlier than had been
previously believed.

10

Gamma ray bursts:

Some of these intense cosmic explosions were found to be related to the collapse
of massive stars, or "supernovae"

Note: After No. 2, discoveries were not ranked order of importance.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kalpana Chawla, a NASA astronaut, works in the crew quarters that will
be installed in the International Space Station. Six space shuttle flights are
planned in 2000 to assemble station components.; A mouse stands on an object
used in a learning and memory test. Scientists have genetically engineered
smarter mice, possibly pointing the way to making smarter people.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               16 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 31, 2000, Monday

15 minutes with Bill Griffeth

SECTION: Tech Monday; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 492 words


Bill Griffeth After 18 years covering business and financial news on television,
CNBC's Bill Griffeth knows his stuff. He uses no cue cards on his "Power Lunch"
show, does his own research, and hey -- his show even has its own ice-cream
flavor in Austin.

Monday, Griffeth spotlighted eight Austin companies on the two-hour "Power
Lunch" during its live broadcast from Auditorium Shores. Griffeth chatted with
TechMonday's Heather Cocks after the show:

TECHMONDAY: Wall Street has cooled a tad toward dot-coms that aren't making
money. Is there a big backlash ahead?

GRIFFETH: We're starting to see it now. Amazon.com is a good example, a
prototype of Internet companies that have shown growth potential but have chosen
not to turn a profit right now. Pervasive Software was profitable and chose to
let that go as it introduced a new product, (saying it's) more important to put
revenues back in the company and gain market share. Wall Street can only be
patient on these issues for so long . . . patience is starting to wear thin.

TECHMONDAY: Does it get easier to spot the ones with real staying power?

GRIFFETH: No. That's what it's all about -- looking for companies that have real
ideas, or technology that's found an application and demand. But will technology
change so much that it passes them by, or can they change enough with it to
remain fresh? Think about the companies that are changing their business model
every year to keep up with changes in technology. The "buy and hold" strategy is
fine for big corporations that have been around a long time, but smaller
companies can go through three or four different business cycles in a year
because of (rapid) changes in technology.

TECHMONDAY: You ask that guests define their companies in "plain English." Does
it ever get easier to understand new technology?

GRIFFETH: When I was starting out, I was afraid to ask that because I figured
I'd be the only guy in the crowd that didn't know. Now I know it, but we're all
in this together and people are investing in companies without understanding the
technology. So I'm there asking questions I think shareholders would ask. I'm
there as a proxy, saying, "OK, what is that? How do you explain it?" But I'm
there to ask the tough questions as well, not just the softballs. Things like
how they manage the problems and does it change your strategy when Wall Street
speaks. They don't always want to talk, but they should, and must.

TECHMONDAY: You got mobbed after the show. Can you believe business shows have a
kind of celebrity status?

GRIFFETH: Peter Lynch once said that he'd know a top was coming in the stock
market when mutual-fund managers got as popular as rock stars. That's happening.
Maybe not to that level, but people are attached to people they watch on
television. They're saving money for retirement and college, and have a vested
interest in the program. (Laughs) It's to be expected, I guess.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Griffeth

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               17 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 4, 2000, Monday

'Good old days' are now for workers

BYLINE: Marilyn Geewax, American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1342 words


WASHINGTON -- For the American labor force, a century of hard work has paid off.

On Labor Day 1900, the typical American worker was a man accustomed to toiling
10 hours a day, six days a week on a farm or in a factory. Injury and illness
were constant threats. Frequent baths, fun vacations and full lunch buckets were
virtually un-

known.

"I don't think many people would want to go back to those good old days," said
Carl Van Horn, a labor expert at Rutgers University. "Working conditions are so
much better today."

Workers of 1900 may have been tired, hot and dirty, but they were often
optimistic. New technologies such as electric lights, telephones and automobiles
were appearing, stirring hopes that work would be easier and life more
enjoyable.

A century later, those hopes have become our reality. On Labor Day 2000,
American workers are healthier, safer and better paid than at any time in
history. One of the few things they have in common with their counterparts 100
years ago is a sense of confidence that technology will continue to improve
their working conditions.

In 1900, government statistics show, the most common job for American men was
farm laborer. For women, it was domestic servant. Even children -- one-sixth of
them under 16 were working -- held strenuous jobs, commonly working in coal
mines and textile mills.

Without such items as tractors, washing machines and power tools, jobs were
physically demanding and dangerous.

"The workplace was quite unsafe," said Roy Rosenzweig, a history professor at
George Mason University. In the late 1800s, about 35,000 workers were killed
each year in industrial accidents, Rosenzweig said.  Many employers found "it
was cheaper to let people die than to improve safety," he said.

Jobs involving railroads or coal mines were especially lethal. On May 1, 1900,
in Scofield, Utah, more than 200 miners were killed when coal dust ignited and
created a huge fireball.

Today, despite having a much larger work force, only about 6,000 people die each
year on the job.

About 60 percent of all employees now work in stores or offices, enjoying the
benefits of central heat and air conditioning. Even factory workers generally
have indoor plumbing, plenty of light and a controlled climate .

No vacation, few holidays

In 1900, vacations were virtually unknown except in a few white-collar
professions. Leisure for common workers came only on Sundays, Christmas, July
Fourth and perhaps Labor Day, a legal holiday in most states at that time.
Retirement was rare, even for the relatively few people who lived to age 65.

Today, full-time employees typically work five days a week, get paid vacations
and look forward to more than a decade of retirement past 65.  Benefits
unimaginable in 1900 are routine for many workers in 2000: medical insurance,
life insurance, subsidized retirement savings, stock options and even subsidies
for child care, education and travel.

Compensation also has improved. Although the average work week in 1900 was 59
hours, family incomes averaged just $375 a year. A typical worker in 1900 had to
toil about two hours to purchase a dozen eggs, compared to five minutes' work at
today's average hourly wage of $13.71.

Van Horn of Rutgers said part of the credit for the improvements in workers'
lives goes to changes in public policies. Child labor laws, Social Security,
occupational safety regulations, wage-and-hour laws and employer-backed pensions
and insurance vastly improved the lot of workers.  Union efforts to win a
40-hour workweek and paid vacations helped, too.

But technological change was the key to higher living and working standards. In
1900, more than four out of five workers performed manual labor.

T he development of heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes and cranes,
increased productivity and reduced the number of workers needed for physical
labor, said Steve Hipple, a Bureau of Labor Statistics economist.

"The big shift in labor in the past century has been away from mining,
manufacturing and construction," Hipple said.

Only 15 percent of workers are now employed in manufacturing, and agricultural
workers make up just 2.5 percent of today's labor force.

Women go to work

Technology has contributed to another big change, Hipple said: "the mass influx
of women into the work force."

In 1900, only about 18 percent of the labor force was female.

In the early part of the century, "factory work pulled young women off the
farm," said Paula Rayman, a Harvard University labor economist. But after they
married, women generally returned to the home to raise children, she said.

The numbers of female workers remained relatively low until the 1960s, when
inflation and rising housing costs spurred more women to seek work in the office
buildings, restaurants, hotels and malls rising up around them, Rayman said.

In the 1990s, the advent of computers accelerated the shift of work's burdens
from legs and backs to fingertips and brains.

Today, with most jobs being in offices and stores, about 62 million women are
among the 133.5 million Americans working --, or 47 percent of the work force.

Another wave of innovation is now generating turn-of-the-century optimism. With
new technologies boosting productivity, consumer confidence is at historic
highs, and labor experts say working conditions might soon get even better.

"People are going to need more education" to keep pace with the changes, said
Van Horn, the Rutgers labor expert said. But for those who get the right
training, the workplace soon could have all the comforts of home. In fact, it
will be in their homes.

"When wireless connections start to work (well), that will change our ideas
about whether people have to work in certain buildings," such as offices or
factories, he said. "Houses will be redesigned so that our work space will be in
the home."

In the new century, a major shift for women might be toward self-employment,
Rayman said.

"The biggest issue we are hearing about now from young women is: Can you work
and still have a life?" she said. Seeking more schedule flexibility, many women
will be looking for ways to work from home or to run their own businesses, she
predicted.

Van Horn said it won't be only women looking for more scheduling freedom.  New
technologies could soon free 21st century workers from hectic commutes, bringing
more leisure time, he predicted.

Although it's difficult to forecast the future of work, he said, only one thing
seems certain: "You're going to have much more flexibility about where you can
work."

You may contact Marilyn Geewax at marilyng@coxnews.com.

(from box)

Over the past century

How work has changed

In 1900

* Most common jobs: Farm laborer, domestic servant

* Average work week: 59 hours

* Average annual salary: $375* Unemployment rate: 5 %

* Average life expectancy: 47.3 years

* Average household size: 4.7 people

* Percentage of women working outside home: 18.3%

Fastest-growing occupations

1900 to 1920

(Percentage increase in number of jobs)

1) Finance and/or real estate worker: 173%

2) Transportation worker: 99.5%

3) Factory worker: 82%

4) Teacher: 80%

5) Coal miner: 70%

In 2000

* Most common jobs: Office worker, sales worker

* Average work week: 43.2 hours

* Average annual salary: $23,505

* Unemployment rate: 4 %

* Average life expectancy: 76.5 years

* Average household size: 2.6 people

* Percentage of women working outside home: 63%

Fastest-growing occupations

1998 to 2008

(Expected percentage increase in number of jobs)

1) Computer engineer: 108%

2) Computer support specialist: 102%

3) Systems analyst: 94%

4) Database administrator: 77%

5) Desktop publishing specialist: 73%

Sources: American Chronicle, Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Census, Federal
Reserve Bank

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               18 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 22, 2000, Monday

Corporate responsibility a welcome change

BYLINE: Geneva Overholser

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 835 words


Are some folks lately forgetting Milton Friedman's maxim -- that the "one and
only social responsibility of business (is) to increase profits"?

My favorite morning radio news show just informed me that 3M Co. will stop
making many of its Scotchgard stain-repellent products because chemical
compounds used in them are not biodegradable and have been found in the
environment and in humans. The company has not been able to find a replacement
for the compounds. "But the best decision we can make now is to stop adding (it)
to the environment," said 3M's head of research and development. "This is a
corporate responsibility issue."

I'm still reeling from Ford Motor Co.'s acknowledgment that SUVs cause safety
and environmental problems. Chairman William C. Ford Jr. said SUVs contribute
more to global warming than cars, emit more smog-causing pollutants and are
dangerous to other motorists. Ford will go on making them, he said in a
"corporate citizenship report," but it will seek to make them safer and to look
for alternatives.

Meanwhile, on my desk sits last week's Newsweek, with an interview with Ed
Shultz, CEO of Smith & Wesson. He says the gun industry must deal with the feds
-- as his company has haltingly begun to do -- to require training and
background checks for its customers and new safety features on all its handguns.
"You can't just say, 'I made it, I shipped it, it's out of my hands,' " Shultz
said. "That just doesn't fly with a reasonable public."

A company ends production of a household-name product -- before a risk to human
health has been established. An automaker says his best-selling products are
harmful. A gunmaker says he must assume responsibility for safety. These aren't,
of course, the first business people with a conscience. But in this era of
megacorporations distanced from consumers and relentlessly in quest of higher
profits, consciences haven't been the most visible attributes of CEOs.

Yet companies do seem lately to be taking the lead in responding to a number of
different social concerns. Think of the five big pharmaceutical companies that
announced recently they would cut the cost of AIDS drugs to poor countries in
Africa and elsewhere as part of a United Nations initiative. Bristol-Myers
Squibb, Glaxo Wellcome, Merck & Co., F.  Hoffman-LaRoche and Boehringer
Ingelheim are planning reductions of as much as 85 percent.

General Motors and Monsanto have pledged voluntary actions to reduce the risk of
global warming. Shell Oil is cutting carbon emissions by 10 percent. United
Technologies is cutting its energy use by 25 percent over a decade.

Demands for social responsibility from businesses cut across ideological lines.
It was Bill Bennett and Charlton Heston who led the campaign to get Time Warner
to put some distance between itself and controversial rap artists. And often, as
in the case of Ford, the great-grandson of Ford's founder, social responsibility
emanates from the powerful convictions of one person.

Last summer, when Hewlett-Packard elevated Carly Fiorina to CEO, an interesting
fact emerged: More than a quarter of H-P's managers are women.  How did H-P come
to be so egalitarian? Lewis E. Platt, the chairman, had started his rise in
business giving nary a thought to women and the workplace.

Then his wife died, and Platt became a single parent. Having learned the hard
way what so many women face, Platt built flexibility into the company, and never
quit pointing out the disadvantages many female colleagues work under.

Sometimes the change is forced, but the outcome can still be good.  Denny's was
sued in 1993 by African American customers who had been refused service. When
the suits were settled, the restaurant chain set about changing its culture --
so effectively that the Council on Economic Priorities just awarded Denny's its
Corporate Conscience Award for diversity.

If social responsibility really takes hold, it won't be because business
executives choose it over profits. Look further into the sentiments of those
recent newsmakers, and you find a solid core of pragmatism.

Gunmaker Ed Shultz said companies can't just go on making guns the same way
forever. "You know, Westinghouse was a great company. But today it's called CBS,
and it doesn't make light bulbs any more. You have to change." Ford worries
automakers could end up with reputations like big tobacco's: "The court of
public opinion sometimes decides before you're ready for them to decide, and I
want to make sure we're ready."

Corporate decisions, guided by a perception that a well-informed public will
demand better from businesses than they're getting: That's a kind of corporate
social responsibility even Friedman might buy. Better yet, it's one that could
stick.

Overholser, former editor of the Des Moines Register, is a syndicated columnist
based in Washington, D.C. You may contact her at overholserg@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               19 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 16, 2000, Sunday

A sign of change: wooing minorities; In new climate, candidates

BYLINE: Jodi Enda

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1588 words


WASHINGTON -- The politics of race has changed so profoundly that, for the first
time in at least three decades, white presidential candidates have placed issues
critical to African Americans at the centers of their campaigns.

Unlike most white candidates in the past, both Democratic candidates -- Vice
President Al Gore and former Sen. Bill Bradley -- speak about racial issues to
white and black audiences alike, and seem to have abandoned the age-old fear
that wooing black voters risks alienating middle-class white voters.

Republican candidates also are sensitive to a shift in race relations, and have
forsaken an earlier practice of using code words to evoke racial prejudices
among white voters. The party's front-runner, Texas Gov. George W. Bush, has
made a special effort to reach out to minorities.

Bush, who received as high as 49 percent of the Hispanic vote and 27 percent of
the African American vote in his 1998 gubernatorial bid, often talks about
bringing minority groups into the Republican fold. He speaks Spanish on the
stump, runs ads in Spanish-language media and has made two of his major policy
addresses before mostly minority groups.

"It's a sea change," said Christopher Edley, a Harvard law professor who has
advised two Democratic presidents and tracked racial issues and politics for
years.

"Through some alignment of the stars you have both Democratic candidates
campaigning as progressives on race," said Edley, who advises the Gore campaign.
"You have a Republican front-runner who appears at least embarrassed by the
national Republican record on race. And you have a public climate in which, for
the first time in decades, there is room to view race as the moral issue that it
is rather than a special interest."

In part, the new politics of race reflects the growing importance of African
American votes, especially to the Democrats and particularly in the South, where
black voters go to the polls in such large numbers that they effectively could
pick the Democratic nominee. But the new climate also reflects the nation's
booming economy and declining fears about crime, drugs, welfare and other issues
that in the past served as code words for race.

Civil rights leaders credit President Clinton, who in some years has been more
popular among African Americans than any black political leader, with creating
an atmosphere in which candidates can address racial issues without risking
significant white votes. Clinton's race initiative, his support for affirmative
action and his appointments of African Americans to Cabinet posts and federal
judgeships endeared him to black voters but did not cost him a great deal of
support from white voters.

Clinton's presidency also has underscored the growing political importance of
African Americans. They were his staunchest defenders when his presidency was
imperiled , and their votes in the 1998 elections helped Democrats pick up an
unexpected five seats in the House and win some Senate and governors' races.

As a result, Bradley and Gore are competing for black votes far more vigorously
than Clinton did with little concern of fallout, observers say.

"The last time I saw the minority community this excited was in 1976," during
Jimmy Carter's first presidential campaign, said Iowa Rep. Wayne Ford, the only
minority lawmaker in the state that conducts the nation's first caucuses. "It's
in the black churches; it's in the neighborhoods."

The outreach is not limited to African Americans. Both Democrats are actively
pursuing Latino voters -- spurred in part by Bush's success in that community --
as well as Asian Americans, Native Americans and gay men and women. But in the
early primary days of spring, it is African Americans who could play a critical
role.

Bradley and Gore have tried to demonstrate their affinity for African Americans
by speaking to them where they live, work and worship. Each emphasizes his
longstanding support for civil rights, each advocates continuing affirmative
action, each suggests ways to close the "opportunity gap" that limits African
Americans' ability to succeed.

"Gore and Bradley are very similar, particularly when it comes to minority
issues," said Jane Meadows, of Atlanta, who recently attended a Gore rally but
said she was leaning toward Bradley. "They recognize that we have a long way to
go -- education, economic opportunity, housing. Even though there's been some
gains, there's immense room for improvement."

Gore and Bradley also have violated an earlier taboo by preaching the need for
racial reconciliation -- a central tenet of both their campaigns -- to all-white
audiences. No presidential candidate in the past 30 years has spoken as
frequently and as consistently about race as either of those two, said more than
a dozen political and civil rights experts.

"There's a lot more tolerance in America," said Ron Lester, a pollster who works
primarily for black candidates. In part because of the strong economy, he said,
"People are much more concerned with prosperity than with racial issues."

Leading the charge

One of the more notorious examples of using race to pit voters against one
another came in the form of Willie Horton. In 1988, then-Vice President George
Bush attacked Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis, the Massachusetts governor,
for granting a furlough to Horton, a convicted murderer, who then tortured a man
and raped his fiancee. Bush never pointed out that Horton was black, his victims
white. He didn't have to. The Republican party plastered Horton's face on its TV
ads.

Bush wasn't the first person to raise the issue of the furloughed convict when
running against Dukakis.  Gore did it in the Democratic primaries. But Gore
didn't mention Horton by name, and the issue did not resonate -- except in the
Bush campaign.

For the first time since the Democratic campaigns of Vice President Hubert H.
Humphrey and Sen. Robert F. Kennedy in 1968, black leaders and voters say they
have a choice of two candidates who are sincere not only in their support for
racial equality but in their intentions to help more African Americans and other
minorities enter the mainstream of American life.

"The interesting thing about Gore and Bradley is that they have in fact been
very outspoken, very active. They have not done what many have come to resent,
take the black voter for granted," said Barbara Arnwine, executive director of
the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. "It's very interesting to see
the debate they're having on school vouchers, what programs government should be
sponsoring to improve education (and) health insurance, about America's need to
recommit itself to civil rights, acknowledging discrimination.

"All of this is not the normal tenor of a presidential campaign."

Not even Clinton's campaigns.  Although he courted African Americans with talk
of racial healing, Clinton took care to assure white suburbanites that he was
not merely the candidate of black people.

While Clinton reached out to the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Rainbow Coalition, he also
provoked a confrontation with Jackson by criticizing rap singer Sister Souljah
for seeming to suggest that black people should kill white people rather than
one another.

"He essentially took the advice of those who told him that he had to run away
from issues of civil rights," said Ron Walters, a University of Maryland
political scientist who studies race relations. "And he had to put Jesse Jackson
in his place." Clinton "knew how to talk out of both sides of his mouth," said
Roger Wilkins, a history professor at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., a
former Jackson adviser, an assistant attorney general under President Lyndon
Johnson and a Bradley supporter. "He was essentially saying to white people,
'Don't be alarmed or put off by my outreach to black people. I know how to
handle it.' "

'Going to be a contest'

At least for now, Gore is leading among African Americans, who are more familiar
with him than with Bradley and who prefer the vice president precisely because
he is close to Clinton.

"I can't think of a better person to continue his legacy," said Stanley King, an
engineering consultant who recently attended the kickoff of "African-Americans
for Gore" in Atlanta.

But Gore is being careful neither to ignore this critical constituency nor to
give the kinds of mixed signals Clinton sent. He has to worry about not only
Bradley, but also Bush .

"Certainly, George Bush has made an effort to reach out to minorities in ways
that we haven't often seen in the past. I think it's going to be a contest,"
said Hugh Price, president of the National Urban League. "There's no entitlement
to anyone's vote."

The power of the black vote

Black voters, especially in the South, have made a critical difference to
Democratic wins

A case study

Georgia gubernatorial election, 1998

The Vote

Democratic candidate Roy Barnes won with 52 percent of the vote

* Half of the 941,076 votes he received were from blacks

* Barnes ggot 90 percent of the black vote

* Blacks make up 29 percent of all Georgia voters

Upcoming primaries in the South

March 7: Georgia

March 9: South Carolina*

March 14: Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Texas

* Democrats only; Republican primary in South Carolina is Feb 19.

Sources: Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, The Almanac of
American Politics

Barnes' share 52% Black Votes

Republican 44%

Other 3%

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               22 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 9, 2000, Sunday

Increasingly, think tanks set government's agenda

BYLINE: Tom Brazaitis

SECTION: News; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1236 words


WASHINGTON -- Stuart Butler, a wiry native of England with an infectious smile,
is so skinny his suspenders slip off his shoulders when he gestures to make a
point. But don't be fooled by his size.

Butler is a man of big ideas.

From a sixth-floor office with a view of the Capitol, Butler runs the domestic
operations division of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative organization
dedicated to altering the ways of government. It is one of more than 100 think
tanks in Washington that together form a kind of "fifth estate" of government.

Financed by big business and major foundations, think tanks are pragmatic
advocates whose work promotes the agendas of their backers. They conceive and
promote policies that shape the lives of everyday Americans: welfare reform,
Social Security privatization, medical savings accounts, to name a few.

"Today's think tanks are tightly run teams focused on changing the country,"
said Butler, 52, a registered Democrat.

Think tanks such as Heritage were once considered "diplomatic graveyards" where
old senators and diplomats went to think and write in retirement. Now they are
"setting the tenor for the major debates in Washington and around the country,"
said Geoffrey Underwood, founder and president of Think Tanks Network, which
publishes a weekly report on their work.

Think tanks conduct research, hold seminars, issue news releases, and publish
books and reports aimed at influencing policy. Their experts testify on Capitol
Hill, provide ideas for White House aspirants, write articles for the op-ed
pages of newspapers and appear as commentators on TV.

Like Heritage, many of the institutions got their start in the late 1970s.
Corporations and other special interests began providing startup money for new
think tanks -- most of them with a pro-business, conservative orientation -- as
an efficient way to change the climate of opinion on issues.

Today, more than 300 independent think tanks operate in the United States, not
including 625 university-affiliated research organizations and 250 others with
close ties to organizations or causes. Most are nonprofit, tax-exempt political
idea factories where donations can be as big as a donor's checkbook and are
seldom publicized. Technology companies give to think tanks that promote open
access to the Internet, and Wall Street firms donate to think tanks that espouse
private investment of retirement funds.

Liberal think tanks are outnumbered 2-to-1 by conservative think tanks and amass
less money.

Sam Husseini, communications director for the Institute for Public Accuracy, a
liberal watchdog group that monitors think tanks, said the proliferation of
corporate-financed think tanks has given wealthy business interests a back door
in to get attention for their positions.

"It's much more effective for a corporation to fund a think tank that says
things that are conducive to their point of view, rather than having their own
spokesperson say it, because it comes off as the opinion of an impartial third
party," Husseini said.

Rep. Thomas Tancredo, a California Republican, says the influence of think tanks
is pervasive, starting with seminars for new representatives put on by Heritage
and the Brookings Institution. Tancredo, once president of the Independent
Institute, a Colorado think tank, said he relied during his own campaign on a
Heritage Foundation book, "Issues '98: The Candidate's Briefing Book," written
by the think tank's experts as a resource for conservative candidates. Topics
ranged from "how to get federal spending under control" to "understanding the
limits of globalism."

Since he took office, his staff has stayed in close contact with Heritage and
The Cato Institute, another leading conservative think tank. Heritage sponsors a
weekly luncheon meeting for 40 Republican representatives who call themselves
the Conservative Action Team, Tancredo said.

Heritage gave guidance to Ronald Reagan during his successful 1980 presidential
campaign and presented the new administration with a guide for governing titled
"Mandate for Leadership," which contained 2,000 recommendations. By the end of
Reagan's first year in office, Heritage counted 1,270, or 60 percent, of those
recommendations as either implemented or initiated.

Think tank successes

The idea of empowerment zones, a federal financial incentive program aimed at
rebuilding inner cities, came from a think tank proposal -- Butler's.

He joined the newly founded Heritage in 1979. In his first paper for them,
Butler proposed adapting the British concept of "little Hong Kongs" -- where
government regulations, taxes and other obstacles are eased -- to spur
investment in the deteriorating neighborhoods of U.S. cities.

Jack Kemp, a Republican Congress member from New York who later became secretary
of Housing and Urban Development, adopted the concept after reading Butler's
paper. Kemp and Rep. Robert Garcia, D-N.Y., sponsored legislation, and Reagan
included enterprise zones in his first budget in 1981. Finally, in 1994, 15
years after Butler put the idea on the table, Congress passed and President
Clinton signed legislation creating urban and rural empowerment zones -- an
extension of the enterprise zone concept.

Clinton's election in 1992 generally closed the White House doors to Heritage,
but its influence surged when Republicans took control of the House of
Representatives in 1994, ending 40 years of Democratic control.

Like Butler's idea for enterprise zones, many notions brainstormed by think
tanks have changed the way ordinary people live their lives.

Brookings played a part in creating the federal government's civil service
system and Social Security program. Its research persuaded President Nixon to
impose wage and price controls during the Vietnam War.

The New York-based Manhattan Institute promoted scholar George Kelling's "fixing
broken windows theory," which led to police reforms in New York, Philadelphia,
New Orleans and other cities. It holds that small infractions, such as graffiti,
lead to widespread public disorder if left unattended.

Working toward 'eureka'

Heritage starts each year with a list of priorities agreed on by its top
officers.  Its scholars then conduct research and release their findings, timed
to have maximum impact on government policy.

Butler said the "eureka moments" at Heritage come only after extensive
brainstorming and polishing of ideas. Significant policy change is a process
that consumes years from the inception of an idea to the signing of a law, he
says.

"At Heritage, we're not a group of independent scholars," Butler says. "We have
regular meetings involving people from different departments to talk about
issues, and a lot of creative juices flow from that. I take an inkling of an
idea and share it with somebody else. Then a paper is done and I edit it. It
comes out in that person's name, but there are a lot of people's ideas in it."

Jeffrey Eisenach, president of the Progress and Freedom Foundation, a think tank
that focuses on telecommunication taxes, sees today's think tanks as engines of
change in a digital economy, just as Brookings was a prime mover at the dawn of
an industrial age.

"If the world never changed and if thinking about public policy never changed,
then we wouldn't need think tanks," Eisenach said. "The status quo doesn't need
a think tank."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stuart Butler works on domestic policy recommendations for the Heritage
Foundation, a conservative think tank. 'Today's think tanks are tightly run
teams focused on changing the country,' Butler says.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               23 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 25, 2000, Friday

In this town, you make the sprawl

BYLINE: Michael Barnes

SECTION: Technopolis; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1021 words


The most popular electronic games these days sharpen reflexes, promote computer
skills and release the inner barbarian in millions of (mostly) boys from ages
five to 50.

One exception among the gaming victors -- SimCity from Maxis Systems, now in its
third upgrade -- requires exacting patience, promotes understanding of complex
forces and releases the inner mayor in thousands of aspiring architects,
activists, planners and urban empire builders.

SimCity 3000, less than a year old and the most sophisticated version, has
captured the fancy of real Austin designers and planners. And it is even saving
lives in an impoverished border community.

"There is no comparison between 3000 and 2000," said Jason Andrus, an intern
architect at O'Connell Robertson & Ass. and admitted SimCity junkie. "Everything
from the graphics to the increase in options for all aspects of city design to
the budget control are better. It has enough realism to suck me in and keep me
entertained for hours."

All three versions of the game -- classic, 2000 and 3000 -- are based on the
same principles. The player starts with a grid, then adds zoning, utility lines,
streets, schools, fire stations, police stations, ports, airports and other
municipal amenities, while balancing a budget and overseeing the commercial
climate of each new city. Just as in any real metropolis, however, the player
cannot actually control the growth of population, industry and trade, which
respond to the combined forces of space, time, material and human energy.

The only informal rules: Make the right decisions and do no harm.

The second edition, which arrived in 1994, added color to topographical maps
that could be altered with seemingly infinite flexibility.

The player could now operate underground systems and better mass transit, create
ordinances, track budgets and put certain functions on auto-drive. It also
duplicated real trends, by allowing the player to add technologies only when the
game's date matched historical availability.

Critics, however, said SimCity 2000 favored single-use zoning over mixed-use
development, the Holy Grail of new urbanism, and emphasized gimmicks, like
natural disasters and futuristic bubble communities.

It was advanced enough that City of Austin architect Nathan Schneider, who helps
oversee the municipal side of Smart Growth, and colleagues played the game when
rethinking Austin's land development a few years back.

"Lesson: If you don't plan for development and its related impacts you will be
faced with consequences that you cannot address adequately," Schneider said.
"Then you will have limited options, no time and always be acting in a crisis
mode."

Cool school tool

SimCity 3000 is already taking hold in architecture schools and offices, as well
as in everyday game rooms, though the redesign has attracted its share of
criticism.

"The newest version has some amazing improvements and some things I don't like,"
said Paul Thompson, an intern architect at Graeber, Simmons and Cowan
Architects. "It allows you to get down to a very close level and watch people
walking on the streets and cars driving by, which adds to the realism. But they
have also made the interface simpler and more non-technical than it used to be,
which makes it easier for most players, but also makes it feel kind of more like
a cartoon."

"All of the basic stuff that cities deal with is there," Andrus said. "But
whenever I experiment with radical changes, the results defy realism. It seems
to be based around the most efficient and simple ways to lay a city out and
manage it. I usually do very well with 'donuts' and other dull layouts that
represent blunderous planning, similar to Plano.

"I am currently experimenting with laying out a city based on Austin's layout
and Austin's history of development and I am interested to see how the game
responds," he said.

Real-world applications

As of yet, SimCity has entertained and educated Austinites, but makes no
demonstrable changes on the real world. Not so in El Cenizo, a colonia in the
Rio Grande Valley, where schoolchildren used the related game, SimTown, to
change to their environments for good.

"They took notebooks and pencils and walked up and down the two streets,
counting the number of residential, commercial and public structures and noting
other physical characteristics such as trash, vegetation, paving," said Austin's
Mary Burns, a technical program associate with the Southwest Educational
Development Laboratory. "They then 'recreated' these two main streets as a
prototype of their community using SimTown."

When the children played the game, their virtual El Cenizo kept burning down
because players had not created water bodies in their communities. This emulated
reality, since El Cenizo, like many colonias, has little water, no public
infrastructure or fire station. So the children wrote up their findings and
presented the information to the city council and las promotoras (a group of
mostly female local leaders).

"The community was stunned and immediately began talking about a campaign to
increase awareness about the risk of fire," Burns said. "In my years of teaching
(nine) and planning (five), it was one of the most galvanizing experiences I've
ever witnessed."

Now, as entertaining as it is, when was the last time that Wing Commander saved
lives of border children?

You may contact Michael Barnes at mbarnes@statesman.com or 445-3647.

SimCity 3000

Electronic Arts

(www.ea.com)

Windows 95/98:

Pentium 166

32 MB RAM

150 MB free hard disk space

4x CD-ROM drive

2 MB video card

DirectX compatible sound card

$44.99

Macintosh:

200 MHz PowerPC or G3

System 7.5.6 or later (system 8.1 or higher for G3)

32 MB RAM (64 MB recommended)

128 MB virtual memory

260 MB hard disk space for installation

100 MB hard disk space for virtual memory

4x CD-ROM drive

QuickTime 3.0 (included)

$39.99

The Sims

Electronic Arts

(www.ea.com)

System requirements:

Windows 95/98

166 MHz Pentium processor

32 MB RAM

200 MB hard drive space

$39.99

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Andrus is an intern architect and an avid SimCity player. SimCity
helps people like Andrus learn design and urban planning in an entertaining
venue. ; 'I am currently experimenting with laying out a city based on Austin's
layout and Austin's history of development and I am interested to see how the
game responds.' -- Jason Andrus, intern architect

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               24 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 18, 2000, Sunday

Recent rains haven't doused drought; But wet weather helped boost

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 600 words


Despite the gentle, soaking rains and milder daytime temperatures of the past
few weeks, the Central Texas drought is still very much with us. And weather
watchers say it will take another, bigger episode of prolonged, widespread rain
to get us completely out of it.

But their outlook generally is hopeful, with federal climate researchers
predicting a return to normal precipitation for Central Texas from July through
October and above-normal precipitation during the winter.

La Nia, the eastern Pacific weather maker blamed for the drought, finally is
fading away, said Bob Rose, chief meteorologist for the Lower Colorado River
Authority.  The National Climate Data Center also is counting on the development
of rain-producing low-pressure areas and storms in the tropics "to play a bigger
role for us through the summer and into the fall," Rose said.

Indeed, the soaking rains of early June were the result of tropical moisture
flowing into Central Texas from a failed tropical depression (an area of low
pressure) in the southern Gulf of Mexico.

But the effects of those rains on Central Texas' three primary drought indices
-- the capacities of the Edwards Aquifer and Lake Travis and the general level
of soil moisture -- were mixed.

The rains gave the aquifer a healthy boost, raising its northern end 5 to 12
feet at four monitoring wells and increasing the flow of Barton Springs from 40
to 80 cubic feet per second, said Stovy Bowlin, director of the Barton
Springs/Edwards Aquifer Conservation District. The aquifer's northern end
supplies water to people and businesses in southern Travis and northern Hays
counties.

But the high flow of the springs quickly subsided, and the monitoring wells
still have 16 to 40 feet to go to take the northern end completely out of
drought, Bowlin said. He added that a 5 percent mandatory cutback on pumping
remains in effect.

The aquifer's southern end -- the water supply for San Antonio and, partially,
for San Marcos -- also benefited. It rose 11 feet, bringing it back to its
normal monthly average for this time of year, said Gregory Ellis, general
manager of the Edwards Aquifer Authority. But the improvement wasn't enough to
ease water restrictions already in place.

"We still have lots of homeowners out there who want to have nice green lawns,"
Ellis said. The restrictions limit lawn watering in San Antonio to one day a
week.

The rains also produced little runoff for Lake Travis -- Austin's water supply.
It remains more than 17 feet below normal for this time of year.  Lake Buchanan,
west of Lake Travis, did get good runoff, however, and releases from it during
the next few weeks into Lake Travis should keep Lake Travis from falling much
further.

The most encouraging result from the rains was increased soil moisture , which
the Texas Water Development Board now rates adequate in Travis, Hays, Caldwell
and Bastrop counties but mildly dry in Williamson County.

"Overall, it was a very beneficial rain," said Ronnie Leps, agricultural
extension agent for Williamson County. The moisture should help the corn and
sorghum harvests beginning in July, he said.

The increased soil moisture also should improve the chances for more rain by
stimulating more frequent cloud formation as the moisture evaporates, Rose said.

The immediate outlook, however, is not for more rain.

"We foresee a dry pattern this week," Rose said, "unless something pops up from
the tropics."

You may contact Dick Stanley at dstanley@statesman.com or 445-3629.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               27 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

A warmer world

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 458 words


It's hot. Nothing new there. After all, it's summertime in Central Texas.  Heat
-- even sweltering heat -- is not uncommon this time of year.

But what makes these triple-digit days so unusual -- perhaps even unprecedented
-- is the combination of intense heat and drought for so long. So far this year,
Central Texas has had 37 days above 100 degrees and one day of significant rain
since July 31.

That combination raises the G-question: Are a prolonged drought and soaring
temperatures due to global warming?

The simple answer according to Texas scientists is maybe. The uncertainty should
prompt us to be more efficient, cutting back our use of fossil fuels (oil and
coal), driving cars that are energy efficient and slowing down -- if not halting
-- deforestation of rain forests.

Thomas Crowley, professor of oceanography for Texas A&M University, said changes
in Texas temperatures alone cannot be attributed to global warming.  The state
braved several periods of prolonged droughts and heat waves, including the Dust
Bowl of the 1930s.

But when taken with warming temperatures elsewhere around the world, the picture
looks different.

He noted that a Canadian crew this weekend completed a voyage through the fabled
Northwest Passage, traversing all of Canada's Arctic without encountering pack
ice.

That voyage is the latest evidence that the Arctic is melting in the summer more
extensively than usual, Crowley said.

"We would expect events like this to occur with a greater frequency and
intensity as global warming increases," Crowley said of Texas' prolonged drought
and soaring temperatures.

Whenever questions of global warming arise, scientists and scholars on both
sides of the issue bombard the public with computer models, equations and charts
proving or disproving global warming trends. Global warming -- the warming of
the Earth by greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere -- is real. The
controversy arises because some scientists believe it is a natural phenomenon
and therefore, nothing to worry about. Others say it is largely self-inflicted
by our thriftless use of fossil fuels, which cause the greenhouse effect.

Unfortunately, global warming is entangled in politics. Fossil fuels are the
major energy source for the United States and other countries. Oil and coal are
driving globalization and the new world economy. And there is no magic bullet --
no one replacement source of energy that is as cheap or readily produced as
fossil fuels. Nonetheless, we can -- and should -- make changes that will slow
global warming. And governments should encourage researchers to develop
alternative fuels that do less damage to the Earth's atmosphere.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ida Otems helps 3-year-old granddaughter Jade Robinson keep cool
Saturday with a wet cloth. Central Texas has had record-breaking heat.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               28 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 10, 2000, Monday

What next for Netscape?

BYLINE: Heather Cocks American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 2678 words


MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- A tongue-in-cheek shrine commands a second-story wall
at Netscape Communications Corp.: collages of cut-out photos, articles, cartoons
and e-mail jokes ripping Microsoft Corp. founder Bill Gates.

Deep in the heart of the Netscape engineering department, where software writers
create the Navigator browser, the anti-tribute is a motivational tool of sorts.
The enemy's in sight, but he's stripped of his imposing aura.

Hardly subtle, the display symbolizes a future Netscape hopes is imminent. All
year, its engineers have quietly honed a new weapon pointed right at Microsoft
-- a Web browser created with visions of humbling the software giant's dominant
Internet Explorer program.

The next generation of computer software will be written for use on the Web,
making the Web browser battle between Netscape and Microsoft the Internet
world's equivalent of Windows vs.  Macintosh.

Netscape's upcoming offering, version 6.0, is designed to be a sleeker, faster
program that can run on a personal computer or a smaller Internet-enabled
device. A warm reception from consumers and corporate partners alike could, in
theory, turn the tide -- or at least win an important skirmish -- in the
long-running browser wars.

"Of course we think about the competitive landscape," said Chris Nalls, product
manager for Netscape 6.0. "We're very much heads-down, focusing on getting this
product out because we think it's compelling."

To stop the free fall, it needs to be.

Four years ago, 80 percent of Web surfers used Netscape's product, which was
virtually alone in a hot market. But after pricing problems and a reputation for
unreliability, combined with hot competition from Microsoft, Netscape is now
flirting with rock bottom. A bare 13.9 percent of global Web denizens used
Netscape's product as of June 18, according to research company WebSideStory.

Conversely, a whopping 86 percent slice of the populace surfs with the Microsoft
browser. Even Netscape's parent company, America Online Inc., years ago chose
Internet Explorer as its default browser so that the AOL software might come
pre-installed on computers running the omnipresent Windows operating system.

Analysts say Microsoft, which declined to comment for this story, is so far
ahead that there's no longer much point in challenging it.

"Netscape's been losing market share faster than some animals can bleed," said
Ken Smiley, senior analyst at California-based Giga Information Group.
"Everything's so much in favor of I.E. that it doesn't make sense to devote
time, dollars and effort into making something no one uses."

Netscape agreed -- sort of.

Rise and fall

From its 1994 debut until about 1996, Netscape dominated the Web-browser market
and began charging $50 for unchallenged software.

Microsoft changed things when it launched the then-fresh Windows 95 operating
system, which came with an early version of Internet Explorer that symbolized
the company's commitment to the Web. The Redmond, Wash.-based company pumped
millions into its browser to put it head-to-head with Netscape.

Until 1998, the two companies leapfrogged each other in the race to release
better versions of their browsers -- and Netscape's customer base dwindled. A
University of Illinois study showed that from early 1996 through mid-1998,
Netscape's 70 percent share of the market eroded to a 50-50 split with
Microsoft.

Then Netscape dropped out of sight.

In late 1998, poring through six years' worth of scripted code, the company's
software team threw up its hands and threw out the Navigator program. Instead of
retooling something tethered to a legacy losing steam, Netscape decided to start
from scratch.

The software writers spent 18 months creating a smoother, more potent engine to
power the redesigned software. They toiled under an aluminum soda-can replica of
the Golden Gate Bridge, suspended with paper clips and spanning the office, and
by the orange-and-green neon lights peeking through a translucent cylindrical
"Warp Core" built of empty Aquafina bottles -- both products of work-numbed
minds seeking release.

Netscape 6.0 is now available in a beta version, an early preview that's still
being tweaked and tested but which can be downloaded via the Internet. The
company promises two more betas before the final product's scheduled release
late this year.

"The bullet you chew is the amount of time it takes to get the product out, and
it's never fast enough for anybody," Nalls said. "But it was absolutely the
right decision to take the hit, redesign and have something glorious when we're
done."

And ultimately, the timing may be optimal.

The federal antitrust lawsuit against Microsoft centered on competitive methods
the U.S. government claims roughly elbowed Netscape out of the market -- methods
such as distributing Internet Explorer for free with Windows and inking deals
similar to the AOL pact that once tied that Internet service to Explorer.
Federal Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson dubbed Microsoft a monopoly and on May 7
ordered that the company be split.

The lawsuit unleashed a torrent of anti-Microsoft sentiment that could translate
into a resurgence for Netscape if its latest version meets early hype.

"If Netscape could come back, that would be great," said Bobby George, a lead
software engineer at Austin's Question.com Inc. "We use I.E.  because it's one
of those tools that you just have to use, but I still like to pull for Netscape
because everyone hates Gates."

Fostering innovation

In Netscape's opinion, the guts of its browser are its true glory.

The engine that powers it all, christened Gecko after a tiny and spry breed of
lizard, is small enough to run on Internet appliances. Gecko has attracted
attention from companies such as Intel Corp., Gateway Inc. and mobile-phone
maker Nokia.

"We're moving beyond the PC," Nalls said. "We're seeing this start now, with
second and third Internet-access devices in the home. These new platforms are
very interesting to us."

For that reason, the real buzz -- at least in Netscape's eyes -- is what version
6.0 means to software developers.

The new Netscape is what's called an open-source program. Developers can access
its core code for free and use it to their advantage, creating new looks and
color schemes for the browser itself or making a specially branded tab for the
new "My Sidebar" window. Companies and consumer users alike can distribute those
designs to global users, with Netscape's blessing.

"We could hate your guts and you could still make a tab for the browser, or a
new program for it," said John Nagle, who handles marketing for Netscape 6.0.
"This is more open to innovation."

Smiley said availability could make it easier to win the fight for dominance in
the Internet-appliance market.

"If a developer wanted to build some kind of handheld pad or an appliance and
needs to get to the market fast, that kind of openness will be attractive,"
Smiley said. "There's fierce competition, but there's no winner, so Netscape
could get some real traction."

To attract a programmer writing Web-based software, browsers must be compatible
with an ever-expanding list of popular computer languages, such as JavaScript
and XML. Around 1996, some Web pages could not load on Netscape's product
because the browser did not comprehend Java program code.

"We're quick to go with whatever has the best features," said George of
Question.com, which bases most of its programs on Internet Explorer. "Both
products went back and forth through the cycle of who's going to invent the best
thing first, and Netscape started falling behind."

Netscape built the new program around newly established industry-wide standards
for designing Web pages -- a raft of languages that can shorten the time it
takes to download certain pages and which allow for changes to a Web site that
can be processed without having to reload it from the server.

Microsoft is also making its browser more compatible with these standards,
established by the World Wide Web Consortium. Netscape expects to be the first
to meet those standards completely, but Smiley said its sudden compatibility
isn't dramatic enough to outweigh Microsoft, which all along was quicker to
embrace new languages as they popped up.

"No one's asking for that stuff any more," Smiley said. "They want stability,
they want it to work and they want customer service. That will be the test."

The name game

Consumers will notice that Netscape 6.0 bears the footprints of its parent
company, America Online, which bought the company in early 1999.

The e-mail inbox on Netscape 6.0 is entwined with AOL's popular Instant
Messenger, denoting with a special icon any message arriving from someone who's
also logged onto the chat service.

Users with AOL accounts can also check that mail through Netscape's inbox.

But those new features match step-for-step the changes Microsoft is making to
its browser. Internet Explorer 5.5, due in September as part of the Windows
Millennium Edition, similarly marries the Outlook Express e-mail with
Microsoft's MSN real-time message program and the company's free Hotm ail e-mail
accounts.

And that package comes out before Netscape 6.0 -- thus, there's a crafty
marketing trick.

"Naming it '6.0' is fluff," Smiley said. "They did it to put the version number
ahead of Microsoft. There never was or will be a Netscape 5."

The most striking changes are cosmetic, like the new dark-blue color scheme,
different icons and a retractable "My Sidebar" feature that can stay on screen
as people surf, tracking stocks and news and storing the most recent search
results for quick access.

The bare-bones browser is also a smaller file -- just 5.5 megabytes, occupying
half the space inhabited by earlier versions and less than the 7.8 megabytes
required for Internet Explorer, according to analyst Smiley.

But even that might not matter in the war on the consumer front.

"Netscape was too late in its strategy," Smiley said. "With new high-speed
Internet connections and faster computers, the smaller file is a difference of
just a few seconds, which is meaningless."

Navigator's sinking ship:

The portion of people using the Netscape browser has plummeted in the past 18
months, according to StatMarket.com, a site run by market researcher
WebSideStory.

Date: Feb. 1999 Microsoft: 64.6%, Netscape: 33.4%

Date: June 2000 Microsoft: 86.1% Netscape: 13.9%

You may contact Heather Cocks at hcocks@statesman.com or 912-5955.

(caption to the Illustration)

1.  The top, colored a deep blue, has four big buttons - forward, back, reload
and stop - instead of 10, along with simple arrow icons.

2.  Businesses - or users with programming experience - can customize the look
and feel of the browsers, even adding their own brand for employees.  The code
for Netscape's browser is available for free, letting designers create new looks
and new My sidebar tabe and swap them at will.

3.  Search results are gathered and slotted into a tab on My Sidebar.  If people
click through one result, browse for 5 minutes and decide they need to try
another route, they can check the tab for other links instead of hitting the
"back" button.

4.  America Online's Instant

Messenger program is built into the browser.  A "Buddy List" tab in the sidebar
lets users keep track of which friends or co-workers are currently logged on,
and if e-mail arrives from an instant Messenger member, a special icon denotes
whether or not they're signed on.

5.  My Sidebar is a retractable screen - one click, and its hides; another click
brings it back and keeps it in view as people surf the Web.  Users can pick
which tabs they want featured, such as stocks, sports, news and entertainment,
and the sidebar is automatically updated in real time with new items.

6.  The e-mail box, accessed by clicking on the enveloe icon, keeps an automatic
address book with the contact information of anyone who sends a message to the
user.  If a message gets delected by accident, the address still stays on the
Collected Addressed list.

7.  Specia menus are smaller, tucked across the top and bottom of the screen to
eat up less screen space.  The America On-line influence is evident - most of
the menus contain links to general-interest topics, much like the options the
internet-access services gives its customers.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               30 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 23, 2000, Saturday

Clinton taps into stockpile of U.S. oil; Bush says decision to

BYLINE: Scott Shepard American-Statesman Washington Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1053 words


WASHINGTON -- President Clinton authorized a limited release of oil from the
government's emergency stockpile Friday amid growing concern of a winter home
heating crisis.

The decision immediately heated up one thing -- the political dialogue between
presidential rivals Vice President Al Gore and Texas Gov. George W.  Bush, who
has charged that the decision was politically motivated.

With oil prices rising and heating oil inventories shrinking, the president
directed the release of 30 million barrels of oil from the 571 million-barrel
stockpile near the Texas-Louisiana border.

Although many economists say they can see the political value of Clinton's plan
to release 30 million barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, they're none
too confident that the experiment will do anything to significantly dent prices
and help consumers.

"This is not political," Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said Friday in
announcing Clinton's action. "The president wants to help the American people
get home heating oil and have enough heat in their homes."

Republicans thought otherwise.

Bush claimed the administration had authorized tapping the reserve solely to
help Gore escape voters' anger for high energy prices.

"Ten months ago the president and vice president thought it was a bad idea to
release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve," Bush said at a campaign stop
in Tampa, Fla. "Now that we are 46 days away from the election, they changed
their minds. I agree with them that it was a bad idea in the past, and I still
think it's a bad idea today."

U.S. Rep. Joe Barton, R-Ennis , chairman of the House Commerce subcommittee on
energy and power, called the release "bad public policy, plain and simple." The
Strategic Petroleum Reserve was intended for "states of national emergency, not
at the whim of political debates or economic f luctuations."

Barton said he will work to stop the release.

Tony Garza, Texas Railroad Commission member, criticized the decision as a
political move that "will do little to moderate prices, and only highlights the
administration's nearly eight years of negligence" of energy policy. Garza, a
Republican, was appointed by Bush to the commission, which regulates the
production of petroleum and natural gas in Texas.

Stephen Hess, a Brookings Institution political analyst, said that "if the
decision helps bring down the price of oil, I don't think the American people
will care very much that it was a crass political move. On the other hand, if it
doesn't do any good, what people will remember was that Gore played politics
with something important to them."

Last February, Gore opposed tapping the oil reserves. But on Thursday, he said
"the situation has changed" over the past eight months.  Oil-producing countries
"have not followed through" on pledges to increase production, a step that would
have eased prices, he said.

The president's decision came less than 24 hours after Gore made a public plea
for such action and on the same day that he was campaigning in Pennsylvania,
accusing Bush, a former oil company executive, of being an "apologist" for big
oil interests.

Throughout the country, rising gasoline prices are becoming an issue in the
presidential campaign after months of undirected grumbling by consumers. And in
the Northeast and Midwest, key regions in the presidential contest, the
escalating cost of winter heating oil adds another dimension to the issue.

Nationwide, home heating oil inventories are 19 percent lower than a year ago,
Richardson said, and in New England they are 65 percent lower.  Additionally,
wholesale home heating oil prices have risen 38 percent to $1.04 a gallon over
the past year.

"We need to make sure that American families are warm this winter," Richardson
said.

It is unclear what the relatively modest release of 1 million barrels a day over
the next 30 days would have on the price of oil.

Some economists say the influx could cut oil prices by about 15 cents a gallon
in the short term.

"Prices will fall, but the effect will be temporary," said Ali Rodriguez,
president of OPEC and Venezuela's oil minister.

The market needs sweet crude to ease shortages of products such as gasoline, and
the strategic reserve consists mainly of solid crude.

Elliot Quint, senior vice president of Global Companies LLC of Waltham, Mass.,
one of the biggest heating oil wholesalers in the Northeast, told The Boston
Globe that some of the impact has already been felt because oil prices have
fallen in the past few days in anticipation of the announcement.

But it will probably be well after Election Day before consumers learn whether
the move has a significant impact on their home heating oil bills.  That is
because the price of home heating oil depends on many market conditions,
including foreign supply and local weather.

The state comptroller's office did not immediately know how Clinton's decision
would affect oil production tax revenues in Texas. Those revenues nearly doubled
between 1999 and 2000 -- from $210 million to $415 million -- when the limited
global oil supplies pushed up the price of oil.

The reserves were created after the Arab oil embargoes of the early 1970s. The
underground salt dome reservoirs are in Bayou Choctaw, near Baton Rouge, La.;
West Hackberry, near Lake Charles, La.; Big Hill, near Beaumont; and B ryan
Mound, near Freeport.

Oil was last released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in 1991, under orders
from President Bush when the United States led a U.N. coalition to repel Iraqi
military forces from Kuwait.

However, oil in the reserve has been used several other times in temporary swap
arrangements to help specific refiners with brief supply or pipeline problems.
Most recently, Conoco and Citgo borrowed 1 million barrels in July when a
shipping channel was blocked, and the two refineries later restocked the reserve
with 1.03 million barrels.

American-Statesman Washington Staff writer Jena Heath contributed to this
report, which also includes contributions from American-Statesman staff writers
Bruce Hight and Gary Susswein. You may contact Scott Shepard at
scotts@coxnews.com or (202) 331-0900.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said Friday's oil release was not
about politics. 'The president wants to help the American people get home
heating oil and have enough heat in their homes,' he said. ; President Clinton:
Released oil a day after Gore pleaded for such action.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               31 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 6, 2000, Thursday

Winter calls for cozy touches; Even after the holidays, your home can

BYLINE: Martha Stewart

SECTION: XL; Pg. E12

LENGTH: 1433 words


Painting a wood floor is a wonderful way to revitalize a room.  Less expensive
than carpeting, but serves many of the same purposes: it can enhance a small
space, alter the personality of a room and disguise less-than-perfect
floorboards.

A solid color is sleek and always elegant, but once you master the basic
techniques, you can make stripes, a gingham check or another pattern. I t's a
good idea to start with something simple, perhaps in an out-of-the-way room or
hallway. Use only floor paint, which is specifically formulated to take the wear
and tear.  Empty the room of furniture, then sand the floor lightly to remove
any old wax and to rough up the finish. Rent an electric sander or a floor
polisher with a steel-wool pad.  Vacuum thoroughly after sanding, using a
crevice tool to clean dirt and dust from tight spaces.

Review the manufacturer's instructions for the paint that you are using . Plan
your strategy before you begin working to avoid mistakes and to keep from
painting yourself into a corner -- literally.

Most of the work can be done with a roller on an extension pole, but you will
have to start on your hands and knees: Use a brush to paint the perimeter of the
floor, the area around any built-in furnishings, and the gaps between floor
boards. Then switch to the roller, working in the direction of the wood grain
and starting and stopping at the edges of the boards to avoid overlapping paint
marks.

(Includes color slide of a winter valance-and-curtain combination. CREDIT: PHOTO
BY FERNANDO BENGOECHEA)

By MARTHA STEWART

(Distributed by New York Times Special Features)

COLUMN:

With the rush of the holidays behind you and a stretch of quiet winter days
ahead, now is the perfect time to reassess your home surroundings.

In chilly climates, you can bring out your favorite warm blankets and flannel
sheets, and cover floorboards with wool rugs. But even in mild climates, a few
simple changes will give your home a fresh look for the season.

Here are some easy sewing projects to help with your winter decorating. Start by
visiting fabric stores for inspiration -- a single pattern or color might be
enough to start you on your way.

Curtains and valances

While summer decorating calls for sheer, billowy curtains or even bare windows,
winter requires something cozier. A heavy fabric is practical for the extra
insulation it provides in cold weather. And curtains made with a rich, sumptuous
cloth add a look of warmth to a room.

A simple curtain can be hung from a tension rod mounted in the window frame.
Plush, patterned, or lustrous materials such as brocade, damask and velvet make
luxurious full-length curtains. If you use silk, be sure to line the curtain to
protect it from the deteriorating effects of the sun.

Hem the edges of the fabric, and sew a deep hem in the bottom. At the top, sew a
roomy channel for the tension rod (or add fabric or ribbon tabs instead to hang
the curtain from a decorative rod). You can mount a simple valance over the
curtain. Suspend it from fabric loops over hooks or knobs at the top of the
window.

To install a more formal, boxy valance: Attach a plywood board horizontally,
like a shelf, to the wall over the window, supporting it with L-brackets. Then
use tacks or staples to attach valance fabric to the board.

Pillows and throws

A new look doesn't require a major investment. Look for possibilities in what
you already have at home. A beautiful old wool blanket, for example, may be a
bit tattered, but you can probably salvage enough good material for a pillow or
throw. Of course, new fabric can also be used for the following ideas.

Here's one way to make a pillow: Cut two same-size squares of fabric. Sew pieces
together on three sides, right sides facing. Turn pillowcase right-side out, and
press. Stitch around the three sides again, 3/8 inch (or more for a wider
border) in from seams, creating a flange edge. Insert a pillow or loose batting
into the case.

Fold in the rough edges of the fourth side, and stitch closed by hand. Add a
3/8-inch hem to match the others. To finish the pillow, you can sew a blanket
stitch all around the flange edge (see instructions below), using a lightweight
yarn in a color that complements the fabric.

A cozy throw, draped over the back of a sofa or spread across the foot of the
bed, is another versatile accessory. Making your own is simple.

Cut fabric to the desired size, then finish the edges with a blanket stitch.
Begin by turning and lightly pressing all edges under 3/4 inch, then 3/4 inch
again. Pin or baste the edges in place. Hold one edge toward you with the right
side up (the wrong side has the rolled and pinned hem).

Using a tapestry needle and worsted-weight cotton yarn, start at the left-hand
corner, drawing the yarn out through the fold from inside the hem. Insert the
needle down into the fabric, 1/2 inch to the right and 3/4 inch in from the
edge.

Before you pull the yarn taut, bring the needle toward you, and pass it through
the yarn loop so the stitch forms a right angle, not a diagonal. Continue
stitching, working from left to right, so that the stitches encase the folded
hem and are spaced 1/2 inch apart. At each corner, make one stitch on a
diagonal.

Place mats

Dressing up the table can add new personality to the dining room or kitchen.
Making place mats out of felt is an easy project, and a great way to get the
kids involved. Pure wool felt is a wonderful fabric to work with -- it's gentle
to the touch and extremely durable. Since it won't unravel, you don't have to
worry about hemming.

Choose a few complementary colors of felt. Cut out rounds or rectangles, using
pinking shears to make a decorative edge. Then cut out polka dots, flowers,
letters or leaf shapes, and let the kids attach them with fabric glue, creating
their own personalized designs.

Send questions of general interest for this column to Martha Stewart, care of
The New York Times Syndication Sales Corp., 122 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y.
10168. Questions may also be sent by e-mail to mstewart@marthastewart.com.
Please include your name and daytime phone number.

QUESTION: Are crab apples edible and, if so, how should I prepare them? -- Angie
Minnici, Pittsburgh

MARTHA STEWART: Those lucky enough to have crab-apple trees not only enjoy
beautiful early-spring blooms but an abundance of fruit each fall. Smaller,
harder and considerably tarter than other apples, crab apples are edible, though
they are not good snacking apples. Their texture and flavor make them excellent
for preserves, chutneys, jams and jellies.

Check your favorite cookbooks for crab-apple preserve recipes. You may want to
experiment with different combinations of fruit and even herbs to complement the
tart apples.

The following jelly recipe pairs the fruit with rosemary -- an unexpected
combination that yields delicious results. If you're not familiar with safe
canning practices, brush up on them before you get started. The United States
Department of Agriculture maintains a comprehensive guide to home canning on the
Internet, at www.foodsafety.org/canhome.htm.

CRAB APPLE ROSEMARY JELLY

(Makes 2 to 2 1/2 pints) 5 cups ripe crab apples, stems and seeds removed

2 cups water

Sugar to measure

Sprigs of fresh rosemary

1. Cut the apples into chunks. Add water and simmer until soft.

2. Strain the juice through 3 layers of cheesecloth or through a jelly bag.

3. For each cup of juice, add 3/4 cup sugar. Bring the syrup to a boil and cook
quickly until a temperature of 220 degrees Fahrenheit is reached on a canning or
candy thermometer. While the syrup boils, swirl a large sprig of rosemary
through the liquid.

4. Remove from heat, skim, and pour into hot, sterilized half-pint jars. Add one
sprig of rosemary to each jar and seal.

(Prep time: about 20 minutes. Cook time: about 30 minutes.) -0-

Questions should be addressed to Martha Stewart, care of The New York Times
Syndication Sales Corp., 122 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10168. Questions may
also be sent to Stewart by electronic mail. Her address is:
mstewart@marthastewart.com. The (at) represents the symbol on your keyboard.
Please include your name and daytime telephone number. Questions of general
interest will be answered in this column; Martha Stewart regrets that
unpublished letters cannot be answered individually. For more information on the
topics covered in the askMartha column, visit www.marthastewart.com.

-0-

Copyright 1999 Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia LLC. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Winter project: A painted floor

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               32 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 11, 2000, Tuesday

LETTERS

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 976 words


Food, folks and fun

I want to thank the American-Statesman for highlighting the Culinary Arts
program at ACC ("Cooking up our future chefs," Dec. 29). Not only was the unique
leadership style of Chef Hay captured, but the overall vibe of the school and
its frenetic pace was as well.

I am proud to be a student of this new and exciting program and hope that the
article will spread the word about culinary arts in Austin.

SUSAN MATHIS

Austin

susan.mathis@co.travis.tx.us

Benefits of tort reform

Five years ago, critics of tort reform claimed there would be no positive impact
from passing laws intended to bring balance and fairness back to the Texas civil
justice system.

Tort reformers argued that there would be savings, both in real dollars and in a
restoration of faith in the legal system.

The results are in, and the critics were wrong. Citizens' respect for the law
has begun to return, our economic climate is better and a documented $22 billion
in insurance savings has been realized.

Critics are finally acknowledging the insurance savings, but are claiming the
savings are closer to $1 billion rather than $29 billion. They are again
mistaken. The real savings from tort reform include regulated insurance savings,
non-regulated insurance savings, fewer extorted settlements, fewer inflated
settlements, less wasted time for frivolous lawsuits, and the list goes on.

It is also inaccurate to claim that it is now harder to sue because of new tort
laws. The law changes have nothing to do with hindering legitimate cases from
getting to court.

Five years ago, Texas was known as the lawsuit capital of the world. But
bipartisan efforts in our Legislature brought reforms of our civil-justice laws
that continue to benefit Texas consumers.

DICK WEEKLEY

President Texans for Lawsuit Reform

Houston

Protection questions

Re: "Hays residents fight proposal for camp for troubled youths," Dec. 20.

Who will help and protect me when several of these youths become bored with the
limited excitement and thrills of quiet country living and wander onto my nearby
Hays County ranch, threatening me? Now I am at risk. Tell the village that
produced these troubled youths to raise them.

PENNY DEAR

Austin

Seeking Bush's stance

Re: "Pill likely to alter abortion debate," Dec. 28.

Mifepristone, which was first marketed in France in 1988, would enable earlier
and safer abortions without surgery or anesthesia. It has been tested and
approved in 11 countries. President Bush placed mifepristone on the FDA's list
of drugs banned for import, an order reversed by President Clinton in 1993.
Final FDA approval will come early in the new year.

This is an important issue, and George W. Bush needs to make his position on it
perfectly clear. Would he try to ban mifepristone? Will he appoint Supreme Court
justices who will reverse Roe vs. Wade?

His answer that he won't use a litmus test on abortion in appointing justices
doesn't guarantee anything.

Two Supreme Court justices will be up for appointment under the next president,
and their votes could make abortion illegal.

When Bush says "every child born and unborn must be protected by law and
welcomed to life," would this interpretation change current law? The voters have
a right to know and don't want any surprises later.

LYNN MCKINNEY KEE

Austin

Can't see the forest ...

My home's privacy was destroyed recently by a home builder. In clearing a lot
for a new home, a line of evergreens on the fence line was cut down. An appeal
to a superintendent saved a few wispy plants, but the damage was already done.

What shortsightedness! A new home two lots down was built with a screen of
native plants left intact. A landscape architect in your paper recently singled
out the pointless destruction of existing plants. Apparently developers don't
pay attention.  Plants grow so slowly here. It will take years to regain the
privacy that was destroyed in minutes.

For a "green" city, Austin has a lot to learn!

JUDY OCHOA

Cedar Park

Schools aren't equal

Re: Jan 2 article "Pentagon schools acing U.S. test" and the Jan. 4 editorial
"Armed for success."

One key element missing from both sources is that Pentagon schools have
something no civilian school district has -- at least one parent is working,
earning a salary in a very highly structured environment. That environment
requires a level of responsibility for that worker's (and their family's)
behavior far beyond any standard in any local area. Misbehavior is punished, and
hopefully corrected, quickly. Miscreants who continue to have behavior problems
are fired, and their children subsequently removed from the school system.

The Pentagon-run schools are picky about who will be their students by being
picky who will be the parents.  No public school district has that luxury.

BILL STRAWN

Austin

wdstrawn@aol.com

More important things

Re: "Bring on Minnesota," Jan. 3.

After seeing yet another front page telling me that the most important news
story in the world is the status of the NFL playoffs, I have a suggestion: How
about placing sports in the sports section?

There must be more pressing items of national and global interest as opposed to
placing team updates on the front page that are only repeated in the sports
section.

FRANK URIAS

Austin

Beginning of the end

In the Dec. 31 article "When Austin went wrong," there was one important date
you missed. I don't know the exact date, but it was when the Austin City Council
started paying itself a salary. It's been downhill ever since.

The Jan. 1 issue was one of the best ever!

ROGER JOSEPH

Austin

RJoseph763@aol.com

Correction

The Jan. 8 letter to the editor 'Molly vs. Marvin' incorrectly spelled the name
of the letter writer. The writer was William D. Benham.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brian Hay, who oversees the Culinary Arts program at Austin Community
College, adds pepper to some stir fry as Cheryl Drummond prepares to mix the
ingredients., Gov. George W. Bush

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               33 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 16, 2000, Sunday

Advice from the front: Face the fire; SBA administrator took risks to

BYLINE: Vivian Marino

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 680 words


NEW YORK -- Two decades ago, Aida Alvarez was an accomplished journalist,
winning awards for her broadcast coverage of guerrilla activities in El
Salvador.

But she was growing restless. "I wanted to do something different," she
recalled. "(But) for a long time, I didn't have the guts to do it."

Then it dawned on her during a television assignment in the countryside of El
Salvador in the early 1980s, against the backdrop of distant gunfire.:

"I was putting my physical life on the line for a story, and I'm uneasy about
changing careers? The worst that can happen is that I go back to where I was."

So Alvarez moved on to jobs in public service, investment banking and financial
regulation. And now she among the ranks of the most powerful women in America,
serving as administrator to the U.S. Small Business Administration. She is the
first Hispanic woman, and the first person of Puerto Rican heritage, to serve in
the Cabinet.

It is from her own personal experience, as well as in her current capacity, that
she advises today's fledgling and would-be entrepreneurs.

"Be prepared to take a risk, recognizing that failure is just one of the steps
along the way to success -- of course you don't start out with the idea of
failure," she said during a recent interview. "It really is about letting go of
your fears.

"If you have a plan, the money will come. There's plenty of money to finance
businesses."

The SBA, in fact, is the nation's largest financial backer of small business
loans. It's also the top adviser to entrepreneurs -- last year alone it offered
management and technical assistance to more than a million small business
owners. It expects to be even busier as more baby boomers decide to go out on
their own, including many working mothers starting businesses from their homes.

As head of the SBA, Alvarez directs the delivery of numerous financial and
business development programs for entrepreneurs, including a $45 billion
portfolio of direct and guaranteed business and disaster loans.

In fiscal year 1999, SBA's major programs, which include the 7(a) general loans
and 504 Certified Development Company loans, guaranteed a record $12.5 billion
to small businesses, up from the previous record $10.8 billion in fiscal year
1998.

Alvarez notes a favorable change in the lending climate for small businesses. In
1953, when the SBA was established, few banks would take a chance on lending to
small businesses, but today lenders want a piece of the small business market.

"The large business market is saturated," she said.

Other factors are helping to improve the climate for small businesses: advances
in technology and the Internet, which allow someone working out of the family
kitchen to gain access to a global marketplace, locate the least expensive goods
and services and keep track of the competition.

"High technology used to reduce jobs, but it's creating jobs and businesses
today," Alvarez said. "You can't be competitive if you don't use technology. To
succeed in business you need a good product or idea and a good business plan.
You also need to utilize the latest business technology."

Dropping by the midtown Manhattan boardroom of SBA lender Banco Popular, the
50-year-old Alvarez talked about a wide range of issues affecting today's small
business owner.

She spoke animatedly about what she has achieved since being sworn in on March
7, 1997, and what she hopes to achieve next year.

Among her accomplishments: continued streamlining of staff within the SBA, a
larger loan portfolio for small businesses and the first sale of business loans
to the private sector. Among her goals for this year and beyond: simplify the
loan process by working toward "paperless" transactions, expand markets beyond
U.S. borders, expand the micro-loan program for loans under $250,000 for the
smallest of small businesses.

"Small businesses are a part of our lives. They're about community," she said.
"They have that neighborhood service -- hire people in the neighborhood, service
people in neighborhood."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aida Alvarez: Former journalist is first Hispanic woman to serve in the
Cabinet.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               34 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 22, 2000, Saturday

AOL dealsets off a chain reaction

BYLINE: Fred Barbash

SECTION: Weekly Business Review; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words


Big deals on Wall Street that change an industry are frequently described as
"catalytic." But that term seems too mild to characterize what happened this
month.

"Chain reaction," a more-aggressive process, is better.

In the hour after the markets opened, any stock anywhere in the Western world
potentially affected in any way by the merger of America Online and Time Warner
took off.

I counted 30 in the opening minutes alone, including Disney, Viacom, CBS,
Comcast, Yahoo, Excite At Home, AT&T, Lycos, RealNetworks, EarthLink,
Broadvision, Cablevision, Liberty Media, Seagram and CMGI.

Media properties, cable properties, Internet portal properties and anything
connected with them, all rose, as the realization sank in that the process of
"convergence" that techno-visionaries had been predicting was suddenly
accelerating, faster than any of them had predicted.

So fast is this accelerating that the term convergence no longer seems adequate,
either. This is a technology vortex, sucking in, and transforming, anything that
comes close to it.

There were good reasons for the market to react as it did .

But amid the excitement, keep in mind a simple fact: Apart from the announcement
of the AOL-Time Warner merger, nothing much happened. Personally, I wouldn't buy
or sell anything too fast until the dust settles. Everything expensive got more
expensive, indiscriminately.

While the particular stocks involved in the potential merger had every reason to
move, all the other stock-market action was based on conjecture.

This conjecture, though, is powerful stuff for the market to digest. In less
than a year, the wave of technology has washed away walls between old companies
and new. Cable television, for example, was perceived as threatened by the
Internet just a while ago.

Now they are interdependent.

Where Netheads used to speak derisively of bricks and mortar, of companies that
"got it" and those that didn't, now they speak of clicks and bricks.

Where they were once at war, now they are all in it together.

There was news that all but got buried the same day about Ford Motor Co.'s deal
with Internet giant Yahoo and General Motors Corp.'s deal with AOL. Those aren't
just about selling cars over the Internet. These companies are planning Internet
access in their vehicles: the ability to send instant messages from behind the
wheel or order some tickets via Moviefone. The service would use wireless
technology provided by Nokia or Qualcomm, bearing microprocessors from Texas
Instruments and carrying chips from RF Micro Devices.

It used to be that investors were confronted with industries. Choose one. Choose
another. Learn it. Buy it.

Now they are confronted by "synergy," long, loopy value chains, and competitive
juices that surge with the speed of light.

A great merger of market cap Goliaths is big news any time, for sure. But in
this decade, in today's technology vortex, it's much bigger, because investors
assume it forms an imperative, which all others must now follow, fast.

What is that imperative? Content needs platform. Platform needs content. Both
need broadband (high-speed delivery) and both need customers, as many as they
can corner. There isn't a company in the business that has it all. They have
differing configurations of each. They can either develop what they need
themselves or join forces to make it happen sooner.

In the case of this merger, Time Warner brings to the table both content -- news
and entertainment -- and platform, through its cable operations. But it needs
AOL's reach, currently more than 22 million customers.

AOL, in turn, needs cable, desperately. While it has agreements with companies
that offer high-speed DSL service and fixed wireless, it had no cable, a deficit
that could cripple it competitively, even with its 22 million customers.

Repeat this with seven, eight or nine huge companies, each of which may be
strong in one area but deficient in another, and you can appreciate why all
those shares changed hands.

Suddenly, Disney's efforts with Go.com look kind of feeble. Will it try to buy
Yahoo? Or will Yahoo buy it?

Seagram, which I used to drink, is now also a music provider that needs
streaming media software that can go out over broadband via an Internet portal,
to be downloaded onto a digital device, wireless or wired.

Last week, every company in this field or anywhere near it had become either a
potential buyer or a potential seller, a targeter or a target. It happened not
just here but in Britain, where shares of Internet provider Freeserve shot up on
the theory that someone would now buy it.

Among the forces caught in this whirlpool were notions of "overvaluation" of
stocks, perceived to be a big concern just a week ago, and hand-wringing about
rising interest rates, yet another worry last week.

Those warning flags remain in place. Keep in mind how quickly the climate
changes now. In the course of one week, the Nasdaq composite index closed at a
new high, tanked and resurfaced to set yet another record.

To me, the biggest warning flag was that all remotely affected tech companies,
with a few exceptions, seemed somehow to be winners.

That's eerie. And it can't last.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               40 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 12, 2000, Wednesday

ACC police uniform to take on casual look,; Some officers against

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 521 words


The men and women in blue on Austin Community College's police force will soon
be wearing midnight navy accented by ash gray.

This fall, officers must hang up the traditional police uniform they've been
wearing and dress in polo shirts, blazers and slacks for a more approachable and
less formidable look. It's a move that administrators say will promote a more
congenial atmosphere. But those slated to wear the new garb don't agree. They're
worried about losing the immediate recognition and potential crime deterrent
that comes with the uniform. And they say the gray polo shirt, navy pants and
navy blazer emblazoned with an "ACC Police" patch will make them look more like
security guards than armed and licensed officers. Some on the 50-person force
say they'll quit rather than switch to the preppy look.

"People won't take us seriously anymore," Sgt. Roger Miller said. "We all feel
like they're doing nothing but slapping us in the face."

Miller, who has been on the ACC force seven years, sa id he's among those
job-hunting because of "this uniform issue."

The college's police task force recommended against the move, but ACC Executive
Vice President Stephen Kinslow sa id he ordered the uniforms to create a
friendlier, more service-oriented climate after a series of complaints that some
ACC officers may take their jobs too seriously.

"The complaints I had been receiving were that the officers were not
approachable and they put on an authoritative air. They seemed standoffish,"
said Paul Williams, ACC's police chief.

Primary police duties are traffic and parking control, assisting with directions
and offering assistance to students, faculty and visitors at the college's six
campuses.

"Changing someone's uniform does not change the training that they have or their
ability to respond to an emergency. They still have the same level of training.
They will still have the same level of equipment. They will simply look
different," Kinslow said.

ACC employee Allison Mosshart, who chairs the Texas Federation of Teachers-ACC
union, is so worried that taking officers out of uniform will make the campuses
less safe that she presented those concerns at Monday's board meeting.

But some, such as student Yolotl Ochoa, believe there may be some benefit to the
more relaxed look.

"I will see the police officer as more friendly," she said. "When I see an
authority figure, I can't approach them unless they say, 'Hi.' "

The changeover will mean an extra $1,000 this year for the force's typical
$5,000 uniform budget.

But because the polo shirts are half the cost of the traditional blue shirt,
Williams sa id the clothing budget may drop in future years.

The force will issue one blazer and five shirts. The officers will use the same
five pairs of pants they already have. Shoes, belts, weapons and other equipment
are purchased individually by the officers.

Both the ash gray shirt and the blue blazer will have insignia marking them as
police.

You may contact Sharon Jayson at sjayson@statesman.com or 445-3620.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sgt. Roger Miller, a seven-year veteran of the Austin Community College
police force, is opposed to the upcoming change in uniform, saying people won't
take the officers seriously. ; Members of the Austin Community College police
force will soon be sporting ash gray polo shirts and blue slacks, as worn by Lt.
Robert Sanchez at the Middle Fiskville campus in Austin, and blue blazers as
part of their new uniform. The shirts and blazers, which will debut in the fall,
also will include ACC police patches.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               41 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 4, 2000, Friday

Clinton: Forest count toward emission cuts

BYLINE: Josef Hebert

SECTION: News; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 525 words


WASHINGTON -- The Clinton administration is proposing that carbon dioxide
absorbed by forests and agricultural lands could account for a substantial
amount of the greenhouse gas reductions required under a pending international
treaty on global warming.

Such credits could ease the burden on industry to cut emissions of heat-trapping
carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels. They also could make the treaty
more acceptable to the Senate, which must ratify it.

The State Department, in a report Wednesday to the United Nations, calculated
that about 310 million metric tons of carbon dioxide are absorbed annually in
U.S. forests and in soil used for crops and livestock grazing.

This carbon "sink" amounts to nearly half of the annual carbon emission
reductions the United States would be expected to make beginning in 2008 under
the treaty.

Clinton administration officials said Wednesday that in upcoming negotiations on
implementing the treaty, the United States will argue that a significant portion
of the 310 million tons should be counted as credits toward emission reductions.

The treaty is a priority for Vice President Al Gore, who helped craft it.  Many
Republicans and the party's expected presidential nominee, Texas Gov.  George W.
Bush, contend that the treaty is too costly and burdensome on industry.

Critics say it would mean sharply higher energy prices, while many
environmentalists maintain the goals can be met by improving energy efficiency.

The White House has not submitted the treaty to the Senate for ratification,
fearing it will be rejected. At the same time, the administration has sought to
find ways to make the treaty more palatable.

In submitting its findings on forests and soils to the United Nations, the State
Department made clear it intends to argue that these "sinks" should be broadly
taken into account.

The treaty would require industrial countries to reduce man-made heat-trapping
gases -- mainly carbon dioxide -- to below 1990 levels. For the United States
that would mean a 7 percent reduction below what they were a decade ago.

According to the State Department analysis, U.S. emissions likely will be about
2.1 billion tons by 2008. The treaty would require that to be cut to 1.5 million
tons between 2008 and 2012.

Negotiations later this year are intended to reach agreement on how to achieve
such reductions, including what credits countries should get for carbon dioxide
that is absorbed in trees and soil.

Many environmentalists have opposed heavy reliance on forest and agricultural
carbon sinks, contending that would mean less emphasis on cutting greenhouse
gases from industrial plants and other sources.

"That effectively reduces genuine emission reductions," said Daniel Lashoff, a
climate scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.

Some scientists also argue that not enough is known about the environmental
impact of heavy reliance on forest and agricultural carbon sinks. For example,
additional tree-growing might threaten old-growth forests or ecologically
fragile ecosystems.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               45 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 17, 2000, Tuesday

Nader heads to town amid third-party fight for Texas; Green Party

BYLINE: Gary Susswein, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1102 words


For Al Gore and George W. Bush, it might be an insufferable nightmare.

For Laura Fenwick of the Travis County Green Party, it's just another day at
campaign headquarters.

"We've had a lot of people come to the office being really disgusted," Fenwick
said of her recent experiences. "A lot of people feel the (Democratic and
Republican) parties haven't done their jobs, and they're not addressing the
issues important to people."

That disgust with two-party politics has emboldened Green Party presidential
candidate Ralph Nader -- who will be in Austin on Wednesday -- as well as Reform
Party candidate Patrick Buchanan and Libertarian Harry Browne.

The three candidates have been kept out of the presidential debates, including
tonight's . But in the final weeks of the presidential campaign, the three are
using personal appearances, e-mail and word of mouth to sell themselves to Texas
and the nation as alternatives to what they call two almost-identical
candidates.

And although pundits say the political climate won't support a third-party
insurgency in 2000, the politically diverse trio of Browne, Buchanan and Nader
still hopes to prove them wrong.

"It would change politics for a long time in this country," Browne said during
an August campaign swing through Austin. "It would bring out from the sidelines
all the people who have given up because they think nothing will ever change."

An investment adviser who lives near Nashville, Browne wants to eliminate the
federal income tax and limit the federal government to the areas specifically
laid out in the Constitution: providing national defense, maintaining a court
system, running a post office and minting money.

He would eliminate Social Security and all education programs and leave social
services to private, nongovernmental groups.

"Government is a clumsy, inefficient, awkward, oppressive agency that does not
ever achieve what it says it will," he said.

Nader, a longtime consumer advocate, disagrees. He thinks government should work
to eliminate social and economic inequities .

He supports supplying universal, government-sponsored health care, making public
policy more environmentally friendly, reducing the influence of large
corporations and passing campaign finance reform, Fenwick said.

Buchanan ran in the Republican presidential primaries in 1992, 1996 and this
year before joining the national Reform Party, a move that brought legal
challenges from some Reform Party veterans. He wants to make abortion illegal,
repeal free-trade agreements, implement campaign finance reform and limit
American involvement in foreign conflicts.

Texas Reform Party Chairwoman Jeanne Doogs said she thinks Buchanan will attract
voters because of those views as well as a general disgust with the Democrats
and Republicans.

"A lot of people aren't as stupid as they're being treated by the candidates and
their handlers," Doogs said.

In Texas, Buchanan is running as an independent, not as a Reform Party
candidate, because of internal party divisions earlier this year, Doogs said.

Natural Law Party candidate John Hagelin is running nationally but did not
submit enough valid signatures to appear on the ballot in Texas. Three other
candidates have registered with the Texas secretary of state to run as write-in
candidates in Texas.

National polls show that Nader has the support of about 5 percent of the
electorate, including some Democrats. Buchanan and Browne each have about 1
percent support, according to a poll taken this week by Zogby International.

Four years ago, Nader and Browne each received less than 1 percent of the Texas
vote for president. Buchanan received about 21 percent of the Texas vote in the
Republican primary against former Sen. Bob Dole and others .

The third-party candidate with the greatest success in Texas was Ross Perot, who
received 22 percent of the vote in 1992.

University of Texas political scientist Bruce Buchanan said Perot was boosted by
the perception that the economy was weak and that politicians weren't doing
enough to improve it.

The current economy -- and having Bush on the ballot -- will likely keep any of
the third-party candidates from gaining much support in Texas this year, Bruce
Buchanan said.

"The strong economy, peace in the world, generally favorable circumstances give
people no anger, no fear and no need to look to the candidates as a solution for
something," he said.

You may contact Gary Susswein at gsusswein@statesman.com or 445-3654.

(from box)

Third-party candidates

Patrick J. Buchanan

Party: Reform Party

Age: 62

Occupation: Journalist

Education: Bachelor's of English, 1961, Georgetown University; Master's in
journalism, 1962, Columbia University

Experience: Editorial writer and editor, St. Louis Globe Dispatch, 1962-66; aide
to President Nixon, 1966-73; counsel to Nixon and President Ford, 1973-74;
television commentator

Worth noting: Sought the Republican presidential nomination in 1992, 1996 and
this year before switching to the Reform Party

Harry Browne

Party: Libertarian Party

Age: 67

Occupation: Investment adviser, author

Education: Attended Los Angeles Community College for two weeks

Experience: Investment adviser for 30 years

Worth noting: Has written 11 books on investing and the economy that have sold
more than 2 million copies. He also was the Libertarian Party candidate for
president in 1996, for which he received 485,759 votes on Election Day, the
second-highest total in party history.

Ralph Nader

Party: Green Party

Age: 66

Occupation: Consumer advocate, lawyer, author

Education: Bachelor's degree, 1955, Princeton University; law degree, 1958,
Harvard University

Experience: Lawyer, 1959-61; history and government lecturer, University of
Hartford, 1961-63; founded Center for Responsive Law, Public Citizen and other
consumer-advocate groups

Worth noting: Does not own a car

(from box)

Nader's visit

Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader will make two campaign
appearances in Austin on Wednesday.

He will have a fund-raisering event at Threadgill's World Headquarters, 301 W.
Riverside Drive, from 5 to 6:30 p.m. The campaign asks attendees to donate at
least $100 but will accept less.

At 7 p.m., Nader will address a rally at B urger Center with former state
Agriculture Commissioner Jim Hightower and Green Party candidates for statewide
offices. Admission is $5 or $10 .

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               49 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 2, 2000, Sunday

Trawling is damaging, but here's the catch: Shrimpers need to do it

BYLINE: Mike Leggett

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C14

LENGTH: 866 words


PORT ARANSAS -- It would be something akin to piling on to start screaming now
for an end to shrimp trawling in Texas. But something has to happen to cut down
on the by-catch and dirty water that come in its wake.

The shrimp industry already is in trouble, both economically and ecologically.

The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department is not issuing new licenses and is
buying back existing ones in an attempt to reduce the amount of fishing pressure
in coastal bays.

Shrimpers, many of whose families have spent generations earning their
livelihoods on boats in Texas waters, find themselves in the uncomfortable
position of doing 2000 work for 1970s prices.

Recreational anglers are pushing Parks and Wildlife to exert even more control
over shrimping in bays, which muddies water and digs up grass beds.  The Sierra
Club wants shrimping in the Gulf of Mexico curtailed to protect fragile
near-shore habitats and sea turtles.

This is not a good time to be a shrimp boat owner in Texas. And things could
only be made worse by wide distribution of a disturbing piece of videotape
presented last week at the University of Texas Marine Science Institute in Port
Aransas.

Les Watling, professor of oceanography at the University of Maine and an expert
in deep-water commercial trawling in the North Sea, spoke at the center and used
the tape as evidence of the singular and long-lasting damage done as modern
fishing trawls dig and gouge their way through bottom structure as deep as 1,800
meters.

Corals, sponges and other desirable bottom-dwelling species have been eliminated
from many areas, Watling said, replaced by less desirable plants he calls "weedy
species." In other words, there's still something growing down there but it
isn't pretty.

Eighty percent of the animals live in the first couple of centimeters of bottom
sediment, Watling said, and those are the ones displaced or destroyed by
persistent trawling. Species diversity disappears.

Nobody knows all the damage done by trawling. The practice has been around only
about 100 years, since the advent of power boats. However, corals at least 800
years old are being destroyed as 14.8 million square kilometers are trawled
worldwide each year. "It will take years to centuries for these areas to
recover," Watling said.

"This is a global problem," Watling said. "It's not just the fish.  It's
everything else. This is the biggest ocean problem worldwide, bigger than
pollution."

Watling suggested an international solution to the problem in the form of
designated trawling areas interspered with protected areas. "I'm not after a
ban, but we can get a lot of bottom back by reducing trawling," Watling said.

In Texas, trawling is a part of the shrimp industry and there is at least some
discussion of set-aside areas that can be used by the shrimpers that survive the
current industry makeover.

"We have some bay systems that are intensively trawled compared to the rest of
the bay," said Larry McEachron, science director for TPWD's Coastal Fisheries
Division in Rockport. "That has to have an impact on the bottom, but we do
recover more quickly here in warm water. The question is how quickly those
bottom organisms come back and we just don't know."

The issues in Texas are just now coming under scrutiny, McEachron said.  "Maybe
we'll begin by restricting trawling in some areas. If it's a long-term effect,
though, that changes everything. We think there's some impact, depending on the
type of trawl. Just look at the mud plumes."

Those plumes drive sport anglers crazy in coastal waters. Silt and debris
dredged up from the bottom hang in the bays, creating trails throughout the
system as the bay shrimpers move through. Fishing pressure is becoming even more
intense as production has declined and shrimpers are forced to fish harder to
make ends meet.

It's a kind of ugly cycle that isn't making the shrimpers rich and is putting
severe pressure on the shrimp population. "What they catch now, they don't catch
later," McEachron said.

The other great unknown in trawling in general, and especially in Texas
shrimping, is by-catch, those marine species pulled up in shrimp nets that
aren't shrimp and aren't used for anything except to feed the crabs.  Endangered
turtles are the most visible of those, but the damage doesn't stop there.

"There are four pounds of by-catch for every pound of shrimp," said Larry
McKinney, senior director for water policy at TPWD. "The bay catch is 20 million
pounds of shrimp annually, so that means there are 80 million pounds of by-catch
out of Texas bays every year."

Those fish -- flounder, crabs, croakers, anchovies, along with some small trout
and redfish -- are dead, "squashed into a little ball in the back of the net,"
McKinney said.

It's the by-catch that Texas Parks and Wildlife would like to get control of, as
well as more knowledge about the damage done to coastal bottom habitats by
constant dragging of shrimp nets.

Mike Leggett writes about the outdoors on Thursdays and Sundays. You may reach
him at 445-3955 or mleggett@statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               53 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 26, 2000, Thursday

SYNTHESIZING, MILLS; Music by Philip Glass.Story by William

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARNES american-statesman staff

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1678 words


Shoulders tilt to form art-deco curves. Hips gyrate around invisible axes. Limbs
twist into blossoms, then droop like warm honey. Skin communicates with skin,
turning partners into intimate extensions of one another.

Stephen Mills, the newly anointed artistic director of Ballet Austin, makes
dances of silk.

The world premiere of "Hamlet," his first evening-length ballet as the company's
official leader, offers critics and balletomanes the chance to further analyze
-- and indulge -- the Mills style.

For, although Mills is new to the job, he is not new to Austin. Or, for that
matter, to the international scene, since his contemporary ballets and modern
dances have been hailed from Paris to Los Angeles to New York.

Now 40, Mills first danced with Ballet Austin during the 1980s. Critics praised
his effortless strength, his intelligence, his distinctive line.  Even then,
Mills was concocting his own style, based on the way his tightly arranged body
responded to the demands of numerous choreographers.

During the 1990s, Mills' unsettled imagination steered him to making
emotion-saturated dances, not only for his home troupe, but for other American
companies. Mills seemed a restless, reflective choreographer, conveying an
interior life through otherwise mute movements.

Last season, as former artistic director Lambros Lambrou drifted away, Mills
assumed the role of Ballet Austin's de facto leader. Then, he bested some of the
country's finest dance-makers to win the company's top artistic job.

"Hamlet," with a pulsing score by Philip Glass, is the first big trial for the
Mills regime. Based on the Shakespearean tragedy about a prince driven mad by
his father's murder, it leads to the heart of the Mills mode.

DANCES OF SILK

If Mills sculpts dances from silk -- sexy, even when chaste -- classical
dance-makers work with chiseled stone, their neoclassical brethren with tensile
plastic and steel, and modernists with warmer, quickly setting clay.

These differences unfold in photographs of Ballet Austin dancers Chris Hannon
and Gina Patterson, pictured on the following pages. (This week, Hannon and
Patterson alternate with Anthony Casati and Lisa Washburn as Hamlet and
Ophelia.) In the series, Hannon and Paterson interpret one phrase from "Hamlet"
in classical, neo-

classical, modern and Millsian styles.

The antecedents of these four major stage-dance styles go back 400 years.  Born
of French court dancing in the 16th century, ballet's basic feet positions and
exercises were first published in 1589 and then codified in 1648 by King Louis
XIV's ballet master.

Yet ballet's golden age did not arrive until the 1880s, when Russians added a
more muscular edge, with gasp-inducing lifts, turns and leaps that incorporated
the male dancer more fully. This is the so-called "classical" ballet of the
greatest hits -- "The Nutcracker," "Swan Lake," "Sleeping Beauty" and the like.
And Mills can accommodate this formal -- even rigid -- classical method, as he
demonstrated last season in a noble "Cinderella" and a slightly amended "The
Nutcracker."

Mills also owes an artistic debt to the neoclassical improvements of George
Balanchine, a Russian emigre and America's greatest ballet-maker.  Through the
latter half of the 20th century, Balanchine, especially through his New York
City Ballet and its school, adapted classicism to American tastes, speeding up
tempos, multiplying the steps, then turning dancers into precise transmission
cables for musically inspired movement. (Some critics accused Balanchine of
further transforming dancers into machines, but that's unfair.)

Mills inherited his musicality from Balanchine. Yet Mills heats the chilly
neoclassical bloodline with jazz and popular sensibilities. His is a ballet that
could almost be mistaken for modern dance.

And why not? While Balanchine was reinventing the classical, modernists were
breaking the balletic mold altogether. Pioneers such as Isadora Duncan, Ted
Shawn and especially Martha Graham threw out the toe shoes, the inflexibly
"artificial" positions and other balletic rituals -- calcified mime, prettified
stories, hierarchical organizations.

Graham's technique is easiest to describe. All movements emanated from a
contraction in the central torso, while bare feet remained close to the stage
floor. The limbs and head twisted into all sorts of shapes and directions,
unimaginable in more pristine ballet.

Graham represented only one stream in 20th-century modernism . Earlier this
month, Bill T. Jones reminded Austin that modern dance mutates constantly, now
folkishly funny, now achingly elegant, now expressive of global cultural
viewpoints. Not unlike Jones, Mills melds a world of movements -- including
traces of Graham -- into his own dance image.

THE MILLS STYLE

What is distinct about Mills?

Humanism is the touchstone for the Millsian philosophy. While classicists force
the body into stiff positions, neoclassicists into endless movements and high
modernists into yet another standard set of patterns, Mills follows the path
that the body wishes to go -- if the body were as well-tempered as his.

For instance, while the pelvis remains immobile in classical ballet and moves
only to the left and right, backwards and forwards in neoclassical technique --
and is squeezed in the Graham version of modernism -- Mills launches it into
full, natural rotation. Partners lift each other organically, rarely etched as
sharp, geometric angles, but rather like the tendrils of a plant, or the
embraces of a lover. The classical dancer repeatedly searches for an impossible
balance, but the Mills dancer seeks ever-shifting social contact.

This was never so clear as in his 1999 "A Midsummer Night's Dream," which
condensed the Shakespeare comedy into a jangly collision of limbs, or 1995's
"The Naughty Ones," which rolled, folded and hurdled dancers all over one
another.

Mills rejects the vertical arrangement so common in classicism (split between
expressive upper body and technical lower) and neoclassicism (split between
vertical halves of the body, as described by Balanchine favorite Suzanne
Farrell, with one side doing something completely independent of the other).
Liberated by modernist influences, Mills wants to see what the whole body can do
-- at the same time. The hip may be cocked, the neck may move in a boneless
whiplash, but everything in a Mills dance curves and rounds, curves and rounds,
like a healthy human body.

Mills toys with movement and music. In classical dance, soloists follow the main
melodic line, while the corps often provide the counterpoint.  Balanchine
employed every dancer onstage in a complex, sympathetic rejoinder to music,
while modernists often flaunt the disjunctures between musical accompaniment and
movement. Mills starts with the music, but does not adhere to a strict formula.
Instead, in "Hamlet," he follows Glass' pulsations for two or three phrases,
then breaks away from the musical line, often intuitively rotating back to
original rhythms.

Mills integrates many small reminders of folk, jazz, modern and pop dance. So
much so, it is sometimes necessary to remind the spectator that this is still
ballet. Mills is also fond of playing on multiple levels -- dropping dancers
from heights, contrasting directional patterns on various platforms, sounding
the depth of the stage as well as its breadth.

Yet this flurry of formal innovations never distracts from Mills's unambiguous
embrace of sensuality. During their time onstage his dance partners are so
intensely involved we may feel a twinge of shame watching them. Yet the Mills
dancer is never ashamed of the human body in movement.  Every tilted pose, every
contorted lift, every rush through unencumbered air says: "I am alive. At this
moment, there is nothing else but the feeling of the body, mind and soul
blending into one, expressive totality.  Watch me."

Which may explain why Mills could finally put Austin on the international ballet
map.

You may contact Michael Barnes at mbarnes@statesman.com or 445-3647.

One phrase from

'HAMLET'

in four dance dialects

We asked Ballet Austin dancers Chris Hannon and Gina Patterson to demonstrate
four dance styles, adapting a movement phrase from Stephen Mills' "Hamlet."

CLASSICAL

Glorified in Russia during the late 19th century, high classical ballet adheres
to a rigid system of positions and moves. Requiring great strength and
discipline, it includes arabesques (body in profile, supported on one leg, with
the other leg extended at a 90-degree angle), tight pirouettes (spinning turns
on one leg) and chaste interaction between male and female.  Here, lower body is
about technique, upper body about expression.

NEOCLASSICAL

Adapted for American tastes by George Balanchine, this style includes rapid,
clustered steps, lighter treatment of limbs and a high degree of musicality.
Note the wrists flipped upwards, the open presentation and the split between the
actions of the left and right sides of the body.

MODERN

During the 20th century, many innovators broke with ballet, inventing looser,
fresher styles. Usually lower to the stage floor and danced without shoes,
modernism often includes rounded moves and closer connections between dancers.

MILLS

Borrowing from not only classical, neoclassical and modern dance, but also
popular, jazz and folk traditions, Stephen Mills has established his own
patterns of shapes and moves, as well as personal relationships between music,
narrative and emotion. Mills employs the entire body organically, but with an
eye to pleasing poses and, especially, sensual interplay between partners. Note
the unusual lifts, rotating hips and swing accents.

'Hamlet'

When: 7:30 p.m., Fri.-Sat.; 2 p.m., Sunday

Where: Bass Concert Hall, 23rd Street at East Campus Drive

How much: $12-$51Info: 469-SHOW

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               56 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 4, 2000, Friday

AUSTIN'S TOP-HEAVY APARTMENT MARKET; Most of city can't afford most

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 736 words


Residents of Northwest Austin's Jefferson at Treetops apartments swim in a
hillside pool, exercise in a bright fitness center and bake in his-and-hers
saunas.

Behind gates that control access, they park in attached garages and enter
spacious apartments with designer kitchens, vaulted ceilings and wide garden
bathtubs.

Two-bedroom apartments in the 4-year-old complex on Old Spicewood Springs Road
cost $1,155 to $1,665 a month, and all 240 units are rented.

Last decade, 12,596 similar high-end apartment units were built in Travis County
-- 7 1/2 times the number of units built for middle- or modest-income people. .
So although one-quarter of those surveyed made less than $25,000, there have
been enough upper-income workers to fill the new luxury apartments.

In complexes charging more than $1 a square foot, only 3.6 percent of units were
vacant last year. And those typically stayed vacant only long enough so that
repairs could be finished before the next renters moved in, said Robin Davis,
owner of Austin Investor Interests.

Building, land costs up

The population boom also is driving a building frenzy that has strained the
construction economy, leading to sharply rising costs for materials and labor.

"It's just extremely expensive to build in Austin. It's more expensive to build
here on a per-square-foot basis than in either Houston or Dallas," Heimsath
said.

Land prices have escalated as well, Zuniga said. Suburban parcels that sold for
$3,500 an apartment unit in 1996 cost $6,500 to $7,000 last year, she said.
Closer to downtown, $8,000-a-unit land rose to $12,000 to $14,000 in the same
period.

"That's why we see 90 to 95 percent of what's coming to the market in the luxury
category, because they can't afford to build affordable," Zuniga said.

There also is a little-known Catch-22 at work in building affordable units.
Smaller apartments that would fetch lower rents typically cost more to build,
Carpenter said.

In any unit, the expensive square footage is in the kitchen and bathroom --
costs that can be better amortized in the larger, cheaper-to-build living rooms
and bedrooms, he said.

"You're chasing your tail as a developer. You want to build smaller to charge
less, but costs to build go up," he said.

On the bright side, a recent trend toward apartment building in the suburbs will
bring lower rents to the market, Zuniga said.

Not only are land prices cheaper, but suburban apartments also compete with
relatively cheaper single-family home prices.

"The market won't support as high a rent in the suburbs," Zuniga said. "If you
want to live off Loop 360, you have a choice of paying $1,200 in rent or $3,000
in mortgage. In Cedar Park, that (monthly mortgage) is going to be much lower."

If Austin's work force is relegated to the suburbs, however, traffic and air
quality will suffer as commutes lengthen.

Older complexes are another source of affordable rents. However, many older
units are being renovated to compete with the newer luxury models, raising rents
to compensate.

In Travis County, 126 properties have been renovated since the 1990s, totaling
27,107 units, or 29 percent of the county's apartment stock, Davis said.

While most of the work involves paint and landscaping, other common additions
are controlled-access gates, fitness centers and business centers with
computers, faxes and meeting rooms -- all regular features in 1990s-era
apartment complexes, said Matt Lutz, vice president of Capstone Real Estate
Services Inc.

"That might give you a competitive advantage. You might be getting higher rents.
But in this hot economic climate, you're doing fine as long as you keep your
properties clean, painted and well-presented," said Lutz, whose firm manages
about 6,000 units in Austin.

Even with rents that average more than $1.20 per square foot, Jefferson at
Treetops receives a steady stream of prospective renters.

Between 40 and 60 people walk into the leasing office each week, in addition to
roughly 20 telephone inquiries per day, manager Vicki Phillips said.

Soaring prices aren't discouraging many renters, she said.

"You get people moving in from different areas like California. They're used to
paying these kinds of rents," Phillips said. "They're not saying, 'Wow, these
rents are so high.' This is nothing."

You may contact Chuck Lindell at clindell@statesman.com or 445-3851.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: High-end amenities: Wide bathtubs, a workout room and a landscaped pool
area add to life at Jefferson at Treetops, a Northwest Austin apartment complex.
Even with rents far above the city's average, Jefferson at Treetops is fully
occupied, and 40 to 60 prospective renters visit the leasing office each week.
Most apartments built in Central Texas in the '90s were luxury developments.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               58 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 9, 2000, Wednesday

Austin schools consider May vote on taxes; Election would determine

BYLINE: Tara A. Trower

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 816 words


Voters in the Austin school district may have to decide earlier than expected
how the district will disburse as much as $35 million in property taxes the
district must relinquish next year under the state's share-the-wealth law.

District officials are considering holding a mandatory election May 6, along
with the scheduled school board and city elections, school officials said
Tuesday.  Under the state's school finance law, when a school district's tax
base per student reaches a threshold, it must surrender tax money.

Voters probably will be asked to choose whether to pay the state directly, send
money to a poorer school district or both. If voters choose to send the money to
another district, the school board would decide later which district -- or
districts -- would get the money.

By holding the election this spring when there is a school board election,
instead of as a stand-alone vote this summer as originally planned, the district
would save about $200,000 . And it would have enough time to hold a second
election before the Sept. 1 deadline if the measures fail.

"This is a question of how you pay the bill, not whether we plan to pay it,"
said Superintendent Pat Forgione.

The district plans to ask the Texas Education Agency in the next few weeks for
certification as a property-wealthy district. The agency typically sends out its
notifications in July, forcing newly designated districts to hold the required
elections in August.

State education officials said Tuesday that they are waiting for a formal
request from the Austin district before they will consider an earlier date.

Even without formal notification, the district has known for several years that
a booming real estate market was propelling it toward the state property-value
limit of $295,000 per pupil. In fact, the only reason payments weren't required
this year is that the state legislature loosened its requirements, allowing the
district to barely slide under the cutoff for another year.

After the limit is surpassed, the only way property-wealthy districts can
increase per pupil spending is by raising tax rates.

Austin will become the largest district in the state to be declared
property-wealthy under Chapter 41, as the share-the-wealth law is also known.
Several neighboring districts, including Manor, Eanes and Lake Travis, have
already been declared property-wealthy and would not be eligible to receive
money from Austin.

The city's active and sometimes quirky political climate has some school
officials concerned that voters may misinterpret the ballot and vote "no" to all
the options.

"If that happens, then the state has no recourse but to take property away from
us," said Deputy Superintendent Larry Throm, meaning that the state could
transfer a section of the district to another district for tax purposes. The
children in that area would still be in the Austin district.

"We don't want to lose any of our property, because we can never get it back,"
Throm said.

Even though districts can choose from five options , Throm said the Austin
district will recommend presenting only two to voters.

The other options involve consolidating school districts or giving property
value permanently to another school district -- all unappealing prospects to
most school officials.

According to Omar Garcia, director of the Texas Education Agency's state funding
division, almost all of the state's 88 property-wealthy districts have picked
one of the two options Austin plans to present to voters. And between the two,
the split has been virtually equal.

"(The other choices) are an administrative nightmare," said David Mendez, the
district's attorney. "We want to take steps that allow us the most flexibility
in dealing with our obligations."

According to Mendez, the district will have to get agency approval and call the
election by March 27.

You may reach Tara Trower at ttrower@statesman.com or 445-3633.

Schools' options for sharing wealth

The state share-the-wealth law limits per-pupil spending in districts with more
than $295,000 in property value per student. After the limit is surpassed, the
only way that property-wealthy districts can increase per-pupil spending is by
raising tax rates.

Once a district is declared property-wealthy by the Texas Education Agency,
officials have five choices of how to relinquish the money. A district can use a
combination of methods to satisfy the requirement, but almost every district
limits its choices to sending money directly to the state or to a poorer
district. Both require voter approval.

Districts may also consolidate tax bases with another district, which also
requires voter approval. Or a school board may decide to merge entirely with
another school district or detach individual tracts of property until its
property value hits the $295,000 limit.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pat Forgione: Superintendent says it's a question of how to pay, not
whether to pay

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               60 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 18, 2000, Friday

Florida schools oK admission changes

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 351 words


ORLANDO, Fla. -- The State University System's Board of Regents on Thursday
approved rules eliminating race and sex as considerations for college admissions
at Florida's 10 public universities. The 14-member panel voted 12-0 in favor of
Gov. Jeb Bush's One Florida plan, which ends racial and sex preferences in
admissions to state universities and in granting state contracts. After a
federal court ruling, Texas ended racial preferences at state schools beginning
with students applying to enter in the fall of 1997.

Flaw found in Mars lander design

PASADENA, Calif. -- A flaw in the design of NASA's Mars Polar Lander could have
caused its engines to cut off prematurely while the $165 million spacecraft was
descending to the surface, engineers said Thursday. The glitch is the latest of
several possibilities under investigation into why the spacecraft has not made
contact since Dec. 3, when it was to have landed to begin a 90-day mission to
study Mars' climate history. The latest theory suggests that jarring during
descent, possibly from release of the craft's back shell, might have triggered
an early shutoff of the engines that were supposed to control and slow the
lander's fall.

22,000 kindergartners to be tracked

WASHINGTON -- The Education Department said Thursday that it will follow for six
years the progress of a national sample of 22,000 youngsters who entered private
and public kindergartens in the fall of 1998 in hopes of finding out how to help
those whose grades are lagging. The goal, researchers say, is see how early
childhood nutrition, education and other nurturing contributes to a child's
long-term school performance.

Officers' jury can weigh lesser charges

ALBANY, N.Y. -- The jury in the trial of four police officers accused of
murdering an unarmed man in a barrage of 41 bullets will have the option of
convicting them on lesser charges of manslaughter or criminally negligent
homicide, a judge ruled Thursday. Justice Joseph Teresi also ruled the jury can
acquit if it believes the officers thought they were arresting a dangerous
criminal.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               61 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 18, 2000, Friday

Internet challenge

BYLINE: Geri Ruane

SECTION: Technopolis; Pg. H3

LENGTH: 405 words


Got a sweet tooth? In this Internet Challenge, we're going to learn about the
history of a popular candy, the M&M. We're going to travel through the 20th
century to discover the origins of this candy and the reasons why it's a
favorite.

n Type in this Web site address: http://www.m-ms.com/factory/history/hist.html
The Web site's name is "M&M's Industrial Candy and Magic: History."

Read the text and answer these questions.

1. How did Forrest Mars Sr. come up with the idea of M&Ms?

2. How were M&Ms packaged for soldiers during World War II?

3. How many years ago was the M&M first sold to the public?

4. After it was first sold to the public, how many years later did the packaging
change from a tube form to the pouch that we know today?

5. What's the famous M&M

slogan?

6. Why do you think the space shuttle astronauts chose M&M candies as part of
their food supply?

7. In which city in the U.S. did the M&Ms World retail store open?

8. Why do the M&M characters proclaim themselves the official spokescandies of
the new millennium?

9. What's the title of Green's autobiography?

10. How did the M&M characters help make this candy more popular with the
public?

11. You have been hired to design a new M&M for the year 2020. What will it look
like (what color, what shape?) What will it taste like? How much will it cost?
How will it be sold to the public and how would you market it? Would you give it
a name?

Surprise your friends and test their trivia knowledge next time you're munching
on some M&Ms candies. See if they know their facts about these unique
chocolates!

-- Geri Ruane

Answers to the

Internet Challenge

1. Forrest Mars went to Spain during the Spanish Civil War (1936-1937) and
noticed that the soldiers were eating chocolate pellets encased in a sugar
coating to prevent melting. After he returned from the war, he remembered this
type of candy and created his own.

2. They were packaged in cardboard tubes.

3. 59 years ago (1941)

4. 7 years later (1948)

5. "The milk chocolate melts in your mouth, not in your hand."

6. M&Ms are a convenient snack that travels well in any climate, don't have to
be cut up into small pieces and are not messy.

7. Las Vegas

8. Since MM means 2000 in Roman numerals, the M&M brand is the only candy that
can make that connection.

9. I Melt For No One

10. Students' own answers.

11. Students' own creations.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               62 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 20, 2000, Sunday

Bradley aides deny March 7 is a must

SECTION: News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 1071 words


Aides of Bill Bradley denied a story in Saturday's Washington Post saying he is
likely to abandon his campaign if he does not achieve significant victories
March 7, when 15 states and American Samoa 16 states hold primaries or caucuses.

The Post had quoted Anita Dunn, Bradley's communications director, as saying
that although she, too, expected good results March 7, there would be little
point in continuing if he fared poorly. Polls show Bradley behind in every
state.

"The majority of the delegates will be chosen between March 7 and March 14,"
Dunn was quoted as saying. "It would be hard to draw a scenario where you did
well on the back end of the week but not on the front end of the week."

Another senior adviser said Bradley would not pursue "a suicide strategy" if his
campaign was going nowhere, the Post reported.

Gore challenges GOP on flag issue

Vice President Al Gore accused both Republican presidential campaign leaders
Saturday of tolerating racial bigotry by refusing to take a stand on removing
the Confederate flag from South Carolina's Capitol.

"Neither . . . has the guts to take on bigotry," he said during a campaign stop
in Springfield, Mass.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush and Arizona Sen. John McCain have said the flag issue
should be decided by South Carolinians. A Bush spokesman said Saturday that Gore
was engaging in "the old-style Washington politics . . . that seeks to divide
people." The McCain campaign had no comment.

First lady, Gore in New York

Hillary Rodham Clinton and Al Gore were scheduled to campaign today in the same
place at the same time for the first time this year. Each is expected to speak
at a church service in Albany, N.Y., that is part of a gathering of the state
Legislature's black and Hispanic legislative caucus. Both Gore, who faces a
March 7 primary contest in New York, and the first lady, who is running for the
U.S. Senate, feel they must step out of the shadow of President Clinton. But
aides said they have not intentionally avoided each other.

McCain's record is conservative

There have been increasing attacks on John McCain by some Republicans for being
a GOP moderate who compromises frequently with Democrats, or even a "closet
liberal." But, says the Chicago Tribune, those charges are not supported by the
votes he cast during his career in Congress. A Tribune examination of hundreds
of McCain's votes during the past 17 years leaves little doubt that he does
belong in the conservative camp.

Bradley defends environment

Bill Bradley told a crowd of 300 in Seattle on Saturday that the Clinton-Gore
administration has not followed through on pledges to protect rivers, oceans and
clean air, and that "protecting the environment is . . . part of my core."

Gore supports spending $2 billion over 10 years to set aside more parkland,
which would be paid for with new mining royalties from federal lands, and he
defends a Clinton administration order limiting logging in national forests.

Bradley said the Clinton administration has spent too little money from offshore
oil drilling royalties on protecting public lands and has done little to rally
the public behind the "Kyoto Protocol" climate change agreement. He said he
fought as a New Jersey senator for the Superfund law to clean up contaminated
land and wrote the law allocating more California water to be used for
environmental purposes.

-- Compiled from wire services.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Roadblock: A man who shouted "Meat is murder!" dumped manure Saturday
at Tommy's Country Ham House in Greenville, S.C., where George W. Bush had
breakfast. The man belongs to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               63 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 27, 2000, Sunday

Decision 2000 Voter's Guide: Where the presidential candidates stand

SECTION: Insight; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1363 words


Bill Bradley

Abortion: Nominate to Supreme Court only those who oppose abortion rights?

No

Campaign Finance:

Ban Soft money to national parties. Increase taxpayer election financing. Make
broadcasters give free time.

Defense In crease military spending?

No

Education:

Opposes diverting funding from public to private schools. Use college aid to
lure people to become teachers in poor urban or rural schools. Add new Head
Start slots for 4000,000 children.

Environment:

Create $250 million annual fund for coastal protection and restoration. Give
states more authority to rule against harmful coastal or offshore development.
Favors Kyoto treaty on global warming.

Foreign Policy:

U.S. should depend more on international organizations to respond to ethnic
conflicts. Five countries most important to U.S. are China, Germany, Japan,
Mexico, Russia.

Gun Control:

Mandatory registration and licenses for all handguns and their owners. Raise
license fees on dealers. Ban "Saturday night specials."

Health Care:

Ensure near-universal access with subsidized premiums, tax breaks. Replace
Medicaid with access to federal employees' insurance. New Medicare drug benefit.
Cost: up to $65 billion a year.

Immigration:

Maintain levels. Voted in favor of public assistance for legal immigrants and
against public assistance for illegal aliens.

Raise Minimum Wage:

Yes

Taxes:

Expand earned income tax credit. End $25 billion in corporate tax breaks over 10
years and seek to save $100 billion from tougher corporate audits and penalties.

Welfare:

Opposed 1996 welfare reforms but now would build on them.

George W. Bush

Abortion: Nominate to Supreme Court only those who oppose abortion rights?

No

Campaign Finance:

Ban soft money from corporations an unions, not from others. Raise $1,000
individual contribution limit.

Defense: In crease military spending?

Yes: $20 billion over five years fro R[D] $1 billion for pay raise.

Education:

$1,500 vouchers for students who leave failing public schools. $5,000 per year
per student in tax-free education savings account/ Guarantee $3 billion in loans
in two years to help build charter schools.

Environment:

Supports limited moratorium on California, Florida offshore oil drilling.
Becoming "more convinced" of global warming but opposes Kyoto accord. Supported
labeling fewer habitats as endangered.

Foreign Policy:

Opposes isolationism and trade protectionism. Supports moving U.S. Embassy in
Israel to Jerusalem, keeping sanctions on Cuba, cutting aid to Russia if Chechen
civilians continue to die.

Gun Control:

Raise age of handgun purchases to 21. Supports instant background checks at gun
shows, opposes universal registration. Signed Texas law to allow carrying
concealed weapons.

Health Care:

Expand medical savings accounts.Consider charging wealthier Medicare recipients
more. Strengthen tax incentives to small businesses that provide health care to
employees,

Immigration:

Rejects English-only mandates. Supports increasing visas for highly skilled
workers and temporary farm workers.

Raise Minimum Wage:

Yes; let states opt out.

Taxes:

$483 billion, five-year package would gradually cut all tax rates, with poorest
paying 10 percent and richest 33 percent. Double child tax credit to $1,000 and
income ceiling to $200,000.

Welfare:

$8 billion plan to get religious, other volunteer groups to assume more duties
for needy. Supports welfare time limits.

Al Gore

Abortion: Nominate to Supreme Court only those who oppose abortion rights?

No

Campaign Finance:

Ban soft money in future campaigns and increase taxpayer campaign financing.
make TV networks give free time.

Defense: In crease military spending?

Yes

Education:

No public money for private schooling. $50 billion to make preschool universally
available. $115 billion, 10-year plan also includes raises for certain teachers
in poor and rural areas.Expand Head Start.

Environment:

Ban new offshore oil drilling in federal waters off Florida and California.
Spend $2 billion over 10 years to set aside more parkland. Led U.S. efforts for
Kyoto treaty.

Foreign Policy:

Unspecified extra spending on foreign affairs. U.S. should show willingness to
"use our strength -- to lead the world toward what is right and just."

Gun Control:

Mandate licenses for handgun buyers. Require makers and federally licensed
sellers to report sales to improve tracing. Ban "Saturday night specials."
Expand background checks to gun shows.

Health Care:

Expand aid for covering children. New drug benefit under medicare. New 25
percent refundable tax credit for premiums for self-employed. Cost: more than
$250 billion over 10 years.

Immigration:

Maintain levels. Favors bilingual education and letting legal immigrants qualify
for benefits.

Raise Minimum Wage:

Yes

Taxes:

Targeted tax cuts for education and retirement, and increased earning cap for
receiving earned income tax credit, all costing $250 billion to $300 billion.
Make R&D tax credit permanent.

Welfare:

Supported 1996 reforms. Seeks increased reliance on religious, other volunteer
groups.

Alan Keyes

Abortion: Nominate to Supreme Court only those who oppose abortion rights?

Yes.

Campaign Finance:

Ban soft money, prohibit PAC giving federal candidates, increase individual
limit, stop matching funds.

Defense: In crease military spending?

Yes

Education:

Supports use of public money for private schooling alternatives. Close Education
Department, let parents decide what to do with their share of federal money for
schools.

Environment:

Reduce federal regulation, make states fully compensate citizens for land
regulation, promote selling of pollution credits between nations. Opposes Kyoto
treaty.

Foreign Policy:

Says U.N. is "source" of pernicious and dangerously naive globalist dreams." No
ground troops in Kosovo. Full diplomatic relations for Taiwan.

Gun Control:

Right to own guns is essential to duty of citizens to "overthrow the power
responsible" if their rights are being "systematically violated." Repeal
restrictions for law-abiding citizens.

Health Care:

Previously supported medical savings accounts.

Immigration:

Maintain or expand levels.

Raise Minimum Wage:

No

Taxes:

Replace income tax with national sales tax.

Welfare:

End "family-destroying" welfare system.

John McCain

Abortion: Nominate to Supreme Court only those who oppose abortion rights?

No

Campaign Finance:

Ban soft money, stop public matching funds for presidential races, raise
individual contribution.

Defense: In crease military spending?

Close more bases to save $4 billion, raise military pay.

Education:

Three-year, $5.4 billion voucher plan worth $2,000 per disadvantaged child. Tax
credit of up to $200 for donations to schools. Tougher teacher testing. Slightly
increase spending overall.

Environment:

Use public and private money to eliminate $5 billion backlog in national park
projects in eight years. Backed stronger Clean Water Act and auto emission
controls. Opposes Kyoto treaty.

Foreign Policy:

U.S. must play a leading role in world affairs. Support foreign forces trying to
oust regimes in Iraq, North Korea, other :rogue" states. Use IMF influence to
press Russia to settle with Chechnya.

Gun Control:

Favors instant criminal background checks on all gun purchases. Opposes waiting
periods. Opposed ban on assault-type weapons. Mandatory child-safety locks.

Health care: Expand medical savings accounts, let people deduct premiums for
longterm care insurance plans not subsidized by employers.

Immigration:

Supports increasing visas for high-tech workers. Opposes English-only mandates,
stripping social services from illegals.

Raise Minimum Wage:

No

Taxes:

Five-year, $237 billion plan would raise ceiling on 15 percent tax bracket from
$43,050 to $70,000 for couple, from $25,750 to $35,000 for singles. Double child
tax credit to $1,000.

Welfare:

Increase housing aid for welfare recipients who need help to hold a job. Rely
more on religious, other volunteer groups.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               64 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 2, 2000, Thursday

Scientists' long shot from long ago: frozen mammoth is up for cloning

BYLINE: John Mangels

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 810 words


It took weeks of jackhammering through the concrete-hard Siberian permafrost
last fall to free a giant ice cube encasing the carcass of a 20,000-year-old
woolly mammoth.

Then expedition members had to build an iron cage to support the 23-ton block
and scrounge enough kerosene to power a giant Russian helicopter to ferry the
frozen mammal 150 miles, to a cave protected from the minus-100-degree winds.

And that was the easy part.

The project's scientists say they intend this spring to try to pluck DNA from
the ancient, elephant-like cadaver and use it to produce a living mammoth, a
species that has been extinct for about 4,000 years. It's a feat that fans of
"Jurassic Park" have been led to believe is relatively easy, and recent
breakthroughs in genetics only help reinforce that assumption.

But researchers with experience in ancient DNA and the complex biology of
reproduction say the chances of success are virtually zero. What Hollywood
portrays as a simple, straightforward exercise is really a horrendously
difficult series of problems that current technology can't solve, they say.

"You never want to say never. But this is really a very, very long shot," said
Rob DeSalle, a molecular geneticist and associate curator of the American Museum
of Natural History who wrote "The Science of Jurassic Park and the Lost World,"
a book exploring the likelihood of reviving an extinct species. "It's just a
pretty improbable scenario."

"I just think it's so far-fetched that it has no chance," said Gerald Schatten,
a cell development biologist whose team at the Oregon Health Sciences University
produced the world's first cloned monkey in January.

However, that doesn't mean the Discovery Channel-sponsored expedition to recover
an intact mammoth is worthless. Scientists say it could provide clues about the
habitat of the lumbering prehistoric beasts and what caused them to disappear.

"There's the science fiction thing that mammoth-revival people tend to overhype,
but there are real-life applications," said Rebecca Cann, a University of Hawaii
geneticist and molecular biologist who has done groundbreaking analysis of
ancient DNA.

When Scottish scientists did the first-ever cloning of a sheep in 1996, they
took an egg cell from one sheep, stripped it of its DNA and fused it with a skin
cell from another sheep containing that animal's DNA.

That fused cell was put in the womb of a surrogate mother sheep, who gave birth
to Dolly, a copy of the sheep that had provided the skin cell.

Dolly's cloning wasn't easy; of 277 attempts to meld egg and skin cells, only 29
worked, and only one of them produced a healthy sheep. And that was using fresh,
intact DNA and an animal whose reproductive biology is well understood. That
isn't the case with the mammoth.

Just after an animal's death, bad things start happening to the fragile DNA in
its cells. Toxic materials from which DNA is protected while the cell is alive
start chewing it up. Water from the surroundings begins to dissolve the chemical
bonds that hold the rungs of the DNA ladder together. And freezing, unless it's
done quickly and carefully in a lab, further dices the DNA chain into fragments,
as ice crystals cleave everything in their path.

A British researcher has estimated that after 20,000 to 30,000 years of water
exposure, DNA will have totally broken down.  "In terms of guiding development
(in a cloning attempt), it's just garbage. It's all disorganized," said Alex
Greenwood, a molecular biologist at the American Museum of Natural History who
has extensively studied DNA from frozen mammoths.

So why go to the trouble of chiseling a mammoth from the ice and rooting around
for its DNA if there's virtually no hope of bringing one back to life? Because
there is much else to learn from the endeavor, researchers say.

Even limited amounts of DNA could shed light on the evolution of and how close
the genetic relationships between mammoths, elephants and the extinct mastodon,
said Robert Wayne, a University of California, Los Angeles evolutionary
biologist.

Analyzing the animal's digestive system, blood, hair, and pollen or parasites
attached to it could reveal information about the prehistoric habitat, Agenbroad
said.

In addition, genetic material from this and other mammoth carcasses could help
answer the most perplexing question of all: why the animals became extinct.
"They're highly successful for millions of years, then in a period of 400 to
1,000 years, they get knocked off the planet," Greenwood said.

The prime suspects have been a major climate change and ancient humans who
hunted mammoths into extinction. A better theory, Greenwood said, is that a
disease carried by the early hunters, their livestock or the insects and vermin
that followed them struck down the mammoths and other species.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               65 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 4, 2000, Saturday

Islamic law and disorder; Conflict over religious rules divides

BYLINE: Bert Roughton Jr.

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 914 words


LAGOS, Nigeria -- Abdul Hamid has a vision for Nigeria.

It is, unfortunately, a vision that frightens his friend, Ferdinand Obi Abbas,
who works in a tiny electronics shop near Hamid's office in the tumultuous maze
of passageways that make up the sprawling Okoko market.

Hamid, who works in an import-export firm, is Muslim and yearns to see the
edicts of his faith and the punishment for breaking them -- the sharia -- made
the law of the land.

"It is the divine law of God," he said. "When you steal, your hand should be
chopped off. When you take alcohol, you should be stoned to death. Are we to
follow the divine law of God or the laws of human beings?"

But Abbas is Christian and fears Muslims want to subject members of his faith to
Islamic law.

"I would never be able to go to the states in the north, where they have sharia,
with my sister or wife or mother because of the rules of sharia that are against
women," he said.

Instead, Abbas believes Nigeria must remain under a government that favors
neither religion.

"It's not Islam as a religion that we worry about," he said. "We have a secular
state, where people are free to practice their own religions. And to keep one
Nigeria, this must not change."

But a roiling conflict between Muslims and Christians over the push for sharia
in four Nigerian states threatens the country's tenuous unity and is disrupting
the nation's slow march to democracy. This country of 115 million -- Africa's
most populous, and among its most influential -- is virtually split between
Muslims and Christians.

DuringOver the last two weeks an estimated 500 people have been killed in
clashes between Christians and Muslims in Nigeria's north, where Muslims are the
majority.

Muslim law spreading

Last year, sharia was introduced in the northern state of Zamfara, causing an
immediate reaction from fearful Christians and human rights activists. In recent
weeks, three other states -- Kano, Kaduna and Niger -- declared their intentions
to follow Zamfara's lead, sparking the deadliest outbreak of violence since the
civil war in the 1960s.

The crisis has confounded Olusegun Obasanjo, Nigeria's first civilian president
after 15 years of military rule.

It also has undermined his campaign to convince the world that Nigeria, long
reputed to be one of the world's most dangerous and corrupt countries, is now
safe for much-needed investment.

After touring areas devastated in the conflicts, a horrified Obasanjo on
Wednesday pleaded with both sides to restore peace. He noted that Muslims and
Christians have lived together for a century with little friction.

"All so suddenly, people who had been neighbors for decades turned on them and
massacred them," he said in a nationally televised address. "And yet, those who
were responsible for these murders claim that they were acting in defense of
faith or religion. I cannot believe that any religion in this day and age can
sanction the taking of innocent life."

Separation of church, state

Obasanjo, a Christian and former general, last week called an emergency meeting
of state governors and announced that the group had agreed to suspend the drive
for sharia.

Many Muslim leaders nevertheless vowed to continue their campaign, throwing the
fragile democracy in a perilous quandary.

For years, Islamic courts have settled civil cases, such as divorces and
inheritances, among Muslims. But the provisions that sparked the violence
extended sharia to include criminal courts with the power to punish violations
of Islamic law.

Muslim leaders insist that the laws apply only to Muslims, but Christians and
human rights groups argue that a state government's embrace of such a religious
code violates the Nigerian constitution's guarantees of religious freedom.

In response, Muslim leaders said that Christians who disagree with sharia are
welcome to leave. "The only thing they have to do is to vacate the place and go
where the climate is good for them," Datti Ahmed, a Muslim and former
presidential aspirant, told reporters last week.

While he is respected for his integrity, Obasanjo, who was elected in February
1999, has been criticized by Nigerian journalists and political analysts for
moving too slowly and cautiously to head off the crisis before it led to
bloodshed.

These critics said Obasanjo should have mounted a legal challenge when the first
state sought to introduce sharia.

"This violent reaction was predictable, and one should be able to count on the
president and federal government to take action to prevent it," said Ayo Obe,
president of the Civil Liberties Organization in Lagos.

The conflict could have been contained if the Nigerian attorney general
immediately had challenged the constitutionality of imposing sSharia criminal
provisions, Obe said.

Ayo Adebanjo, a veteran political leader, compared the conditions in Nigeria
with the situation in Yugoslavia, a conglomeration of distinct religious and
ethnic groups held together only by decades of autocratic rule.

As democratic forces swept the former socialist state, it began to disintegrate
with the conflict in Kosovo only the latest chapter in the deadly process.

Adebanjo believes his country risks shattering if it isn't reshaped to allow
enough space for its diverse religious and ethnic groups. "Either we agree on a
model for us to live together or break Nigeria," he said.

You may contact Bert Roughton at bertr@coxnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Standing among fellow Muslims, Abdul Hamid, second from left says
sharia -- IslamicLaw-- should be the law of the land in nigeria. // Ferdinand
Obi Abbas, a Christian, fears that Muslims in Nigeria want to subject members of
his faith to Islamic law. Muslims say they don't.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               67 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 12, 2000, Sunday

5 battle to face tough GOP foe; Democrats face big challenges in

BYLINE: Dave Harmon

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1099 words


As U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison waits for the November election atop a $6
million campaign war chest, five Democrats gunning for her seat are trying to
separate from the pack as Tuesday's primary approaches.

The focus of the country's presidential race has shifted to November's general
election since Democrat Bill Bradley withdrew and Republican John McCain
suspended his campaign last week. That left Democratic Vice President Al Gore
and Republican Gov. George W. Bush as shoo-ins for their party's nomination .

Nevertheless, Texas voters will find their ballots packed with races for
Congress, the state House and Senate, the state's highest appeals courts and
numerous other state and local offices.

In the U.S. Senate race -- the second-highest office on the ballot -- the field
includes a retired airline worker mounting a shoestring campaign, a bank
executive financing his first run for office, a former state representative
hungry to get back in the political game, a six-time candidate hoping the
seventh time's a charm and a civil rights activist for the gay and lesbian
community firebrand gay lawyer who says his goal is to mobilize Hispanic voters
for the party because Hutchison is virtually unbeatable.

H. Gerald Bintliff

From his home in Leonard, north of Dallas, H. Gerald Bintliff is making his
political debut at age 58.

"We need a living wage; we need health care for all; we need prescription
benefits for all," said Bintliff, a retired airline worker who frequently quotes
the Bible.

His platform includes evening the political playing field with
government-financed campaigns, more money for federal agencies that monitor
worker safety, lower taxes on the poor and higher taxes on the wealthy.

Bintliff, who said he's spent about $2,000 on his campaign, believes the
government should provide free health care for uninsured citizens and offer tax
breaks to businesses that hire ex-prisoners, homosexuals and minorities .

Bintliff also favors abortion rights and legal recognition of same-sex
marriages.

"When you get down to it, we're all people, and we need to be treated as
equals," he said.

Don Clark

When Don Clark's parents told him he could grow up to be president, he took it
seriously. And he said he's felt a calling to politics ever since.

Using $40,000 of his own money, the Mesquite bank executive has set up a Web
site and said he has volunteers in 20 Texas counties. Clark said he wants to
give citizens a more accessible senator.

"We don't hear from our representatives," Clark said. "We elect them; they
disappear for however many years; then they come to visit us when it's time for
re-election."

Clark wants to make college available to everyone with a six-year government
program that would provide food, housing, part-time jobs and classes at public
universities. Participants would surrender most of their paychecks to help pay
for the program, he said.

Clark favors reducing taxes and eliminating all deductions, except for basics
such as dependents, mortgages and charity. He wants to use federal budget
surplus money to shore up Medicare, which he says should pay for prescription
drugs.

Clark also said he favors giving citizens a say in how their Social Security
money is invested and wants cost-of-living increases to be quarterly, instead of
annually.

Charles Gandy

Fifteen years after leaving the Texas House of Representatives, Charles Gandy is
back in the game.

He has raked in the majority of the endorsements in the race while spending only
about $15,000. Gandy, who spent two years in the House, said he's using the
Internet to reach voters and rejecting the expensive world of television
commercials, consultants and opinion polls.

"Money does buy access and money does buy power in the current political climate
in Washington," he said. "And people do want change."

Gandy, who works as a livable communities consultant in Austin, supports banning
so-called soft money contributions that political parties use to help
candidates. He favors government-f inanced health care for uninsured citizens
and believes Medicare should cover prescription drugs and home health care.

Gandy opposes privatizing Social Security or allowing citizens to put the money
in "speculative investments." He wants to close tax loopholes for "corporate
special interests."

He also favors shifting federal anti-drug money from enforcement to education.

Gene Kelly

Gene Kelly -- the retired military lawyer from Universal City, not the dancing
film star -- has become a veteran candidate, running six unsuccessful campaigns
for attorney general, the state Supreme Court and several other offices.

He won the Democratic nomination for Texas Supreme Court in 1990, a victory that
many chalked up to his well-known name. Kelly lost the general election to John
Cornyn, now the state's attorney general.

"I know I haven't been elected, but if you don't have money, it takes time to
build up recognition," Kelly said. "I've proven again and again that I'm above
reproach in terms of character."

Kelly said he's spent about $2,000 to get out his core message: Protect Social
Security from being "raided" by Congress, raise the minimum wage so workers can
support a family on it and make prescription drugs and home health care free to
Medicare recipients.

Kelly said he favors keeping abortions legal, supports gun control and will
fight against privatizing Social Security.

Bobby Wightman-Cervantes

"The chances of a Democrat beating Kay Bailey is almost non existent," Bobby
Wightman-Cervantes said from his Dallas office.

Wightman-Cervantes said he's not running to beat Hutchison but to have a
Hispanic name at the top of the Democratic ticket "to bring the Hispanic vote
out in November to get a trickle-down effect."

Wightman-Cervantes, who is using his mother's Nicaraguan name during the
campaign, will appear as Bobby Wightman on the ballot.

He is known as a take-no-prisoners lawyer who often infuriates judges and fellow
lawyersattorneys. In 1998, he ran for district judge in Dallas as a Republican.

Now he's running a self-f inanced campaign as a Democrat.

If elected, Wightman-Cervantes said, he will work to protect Social Security
from being "raided" or privatized by Congress, fight to gradually raise the
minimum wage to $10 per hour, support making prescription drugs available under
Medicare and support an amnesty for illegal immigrants who enter the United
States by March 31.

You may contact Dave Harmon at dharmon@statesman.com or 445-3645.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               68 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 13, 2000, Monday

Free speech and higher education

BYLINE: Thomas G. Palaima

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 846 words


Austin is the only community in America where Henry Kissinger has appeared in
the news recently more often than Darva Conger and Rick Rockwell. Some may view
this as good reason to raise Frank Erwin's Vietnam-War-protester walls along
Guadalupe Street to greater heights -- only this time to keep the rowdy elements
in. I think that the Kissinger debate on campus and among the general public is
proof that the university is doing something right. With serious collective
thought we can do even better.

Sen. Royce West, D-Dallas and chairman of the Texas Senate Subcommittee on
Higher Education, and Rep. Rob Junell, D-San Angelo and chairman of the Texas
House Appropriations Committee, met recently with college and university
professors of the Texas Association of College Teachers and Texas Council of
Faculty Senates to discuss the challenges facing Texas higher education.  West
stressed the need for higher education to reflect the changing demographics of
our state. In 20 years, Texas will be a majority minority state. Greater numbers
of Hispanic and African American students must attend our colleges and
universities.

Stronger collaboration among colleges, universities and secondary and primary
schools is one solution. Students must know from kindergarten onward what is
expected of them at higher levels and that, if they work hard, there is a place
for them at the top. This will only work if we stop the flight of public school
teachers, which is producing more than 50,000 vacancies per year. The Teach for
Texas grant program supports students to become primary and secondary school
teachers. But we must retain the well-trained teachers we have by improving the
conditions in which they teach and by paying them better for their dedicated
efforts.

Junell emphasized the importance of undergraduate education and took part in a
lively debate over the role of research in teaching. Many professors at
non-research-oriented colleges and universities spoke eloquently about how their
continuing research in fields as diverse as English and economics kept their
teaching up-to-date and exciting for their students.

Here enters Kissinger. West, Junell and the rest of us were speaking freely,
often passionately, with one another about issues affecting society at large.
How do our representatives improve a system of higher education that was
budgeted $8.5 billion in the 76th legislative session? West and Junell offered
many perspectives that we found challenging. In turn, they wanted to hear our
reports from the field, where programs and policies are put into practice. They
admitted that legislators can be out of touch.

Provosts and presidents come seasonally to Austin. Their job is to exclaim, like
biennial Chicken Littles, that the sky is falling on higher education.  Junell
wanted to hear from us littler chickens about the pieces of sky that are hitting
faculty and students daily. Ironically such free exchange of ideas between
faculty and legislators is discouraged at many institutions, where
administrators fear that it will scuttle carefully orchestrated pitches to the
Legislature. If the profs won't go to the Legislature, the legislators . . .

In the aftermath of the Kissinger cancellation, we have heard many explanations
of what happened. One extreme alleged that the Secret Service had gathered
information that the "protesters" were threatening to use WTO-style violent
tactics. We shall never know now what the "protesters" intended. But many lament
the lost opportunity to hear one of the brightest minds in U.S. foreign policy
of the 20th century. The other extreme views the "protesters" as champions of
conscience wrongly prevented from asking questions of someone they consider a
"war criminal" for policies supporting repressive regimes and human rights
violations in Southeast Asia and South America. Two letters to the editor have
even taken to task as age-prejudiced those who would blame Lady Bird and her
contemporaries for planning to attend and thereby creating a security risk.

Students, get used to the real world. As our society and our world rapidly
change, there will be more and more flash-point issues to debate. If you don't
believe me, pay attention to the partisan muck-slinging in the presidential
primaries. We would do well on our campuses to avoid polarization and to welcome
diversity of opinion. Controversial speakers should find a place to present
their views at universities and colleges in our state. But they should be made
to understand that a precondition of their stepping to the podium in Texas is to
answer questions from those with different viewpoints. We must create the proper
climate for the intelligent exchange of opposing views. After all, our national
political leaders are setting bad examples, and we are educating future Texas
state legislators and their future electorate.

Palaima is Dickson Centennial Profesor of Classics at The University of Texas at
Austin, where he serves on the Faculty Council's budgetary advisory and
executive committees.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thomas G.Palaima

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               70 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 5, 2000, Wednesday

They've got the money, honey; Now they want the wine Austin's scads

BYLINE: Dale Rice

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1753 words


One night after dinner at Ruth's Chris Steak House, the owners of the upscale
eatery were talking to a young Austin entrepreneur who has made millions in the
high-tech field.

The twentysomething executive told them he had an idea.

He said he knew a tremendous number of young people in the computer industry
who've acquired a lot of money quickly. They have the expendable income to buy
fine wines but don't have much knowledge to go along with it.

Ruth's Chris, he suggested, could help by developing a way to educate his
colleagues.

So the restaurant -- whose wine list has been lauded by Wine Spectator magazine
-- launched a special program last month.

Every Tuesday night, Ruth's Chris opens three fine wines and pours them in the
front lounge for customers to sample -- at $25 to $50 a glass. The first night,
20 people tried the wines that ordinarily are not available by the glass. Later
when they went in the dining room for dinner, they ordered six bottles of one of
the wines and three bottles of another -- paying more than $100 a bottle for
wine they liked.

It's the sip of the times -- an outpouring of riches -- as a robust economy
fueled by the technology sector transforms Austin into a high-end wine market.

The evidence is widespread -- from wine stores to restaurants to special events
like this week's pricey Texas Hill Country Wine and Food Festival -- that area
consumers have a thirst for top-dollar vintages.

"There's money aplenty in Austin, Texas, right now, and people are spending it
on wine," says John Roenigk, owner of the Austin Wine Merchant.

Other retailers, wholesalers and restaurateurs agree, offering example after
example of the local boom.

Rob Moshein, the wine buyer at Reuben's Emporium, recalls one of them:

A customer walked into the Reuben's on Research Boulevard and said, "I'm going
to a dinner party at the home of a good friend who's into wine.  What's the best
bottle you have?"

"What are you looking for? " Moshein replied.

"Perhaps I should rephrase the question," the man said. "What's your most
expensive bottle?"

"What type of wine do you want?" Moshein asked, hoping to narrow the choice to
red or white.

"Perhaps you didn't hear me," the dinner guest said. "What's your most expensive
bottle?"

"The '82 Obrion, at $425," Moshein said.

"I'll take it," the customer responded.

It's like that across the city as customers reach repeatedly for the top shelf.

Behind the bottle

It's a phenomenon that is being propelled by a number of factors, some general
to the world of wine, some particular to Central Texas.

The general issues include the high quality of California wine in recent years,
the laws of supply and demand and the hefty attention focused on some vineyards
by national publications.

And while they drive up the cost of a bottle of wine, something else must
account for the willingness of people to purchase at those prices.

In Central Texas, wine sellers agree, there are two factors at work: the healthy
economy with its sizzling high-tech industry that is making fortunes for
individuals and the wine culture that has developed, making Austin one of the
leading wine cities in the country.

"Austin is a hot bed," says Leon Cikota, who oversees fine wine sales at San
Antonio-based Block Distributing. "People are clamoring for quality wine."

One sign of Austin's stature in wine circles, Cikota says, is the number of
vintners who come to the Capital City to personally ply their wares.

"Austin," he says, "is way ahead of the curve when it comes to having celebrity
wine makers visit the market."

Many of those wine makers have been the focus of attention in national
publications such as the Wine Spectator, Wine Advocate and Wine Enthusiast,
Roenigk notes. High ratings and praise encourage more consumers to seek out
those special wines, bringing supply and demand into play.

Look what has happened to Caymus Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon, for example.
The retail price of the 1991 vintage was $22.50 a bottle; the '96 price was
$68.75. Or the Chateau Lafite Rothschild first-growth Bordeaux.  The 1992
vintage was $40 a bottle; the '97 was $200. And in the case of Lafite, that
price is for people who ordered the wine before it was even released by the
vineyard.

Does that deter Austin aficionados?

"Nope," Cikota says.

"Austin is a gold mine; it's paradise."

What the money buys

What do you get when you spend $100 or more on a bottle of wine?

The paramount item is exclusivity. These are the wines produced in small
quantities, with great care and attention from the vine to the bottle.

While high price is closely tied to rarity, many collectors and consumers
associate it with quality as well. The assumption is that the more you pay, the
better the taste.

That, however, is not always the rule. Several area experts privately confide
that in many cases they could not pick the most expensive wine in a blind
tasting.

Still, that's what many drinkers crave. High-dollar wine.

Demand in the stores

They want those exclusive wines so bad at Central Market- Westgage that wine
manager April Lowe has been forced to create a collectors' file to ration
"allocated wines," the short-supply, high-end wines limited to a few bottles or
a few cases per retailer.

"We're getting less and less every year," Lowe says, "and people want more and
more."

To deal with that demand, Lowe calls collectors when a special wine arrives and
tells them that the first through the door will get a bottle.

But it's not just collectors with a thirst for the fine stuff.

Lowe recently decided to conduct a wine tasting on the spur of the moment. She
put up one 8 1/2-by-14-inch poster advertising the sampling of Italian wines
that ranged from $35 to $60 a bottle.

The $25-a-person tasting sold out in less than 48 hours.

That enthusiasm is widespread.

At Grape Vine Market, according to co-owner Chuck Huffaker, customers regularly
buy expensive Italian wines, such as Gaja, which ranges from $120 to $275 a
bottle, and Quintarelli, which runs from $33 to $175.

"People are coming in and asking for it by name," Huffaker says. "That wasn't
happening a couple of years ago."

He's also seeing more young people interested in wine. One of his customers
recently walked out with $3,000 in Bordeaux, and "he was 30 years old at most,"
Huffaker says.

As a result of activity like that, he says, "the average bottle price has
increased dramatically compared to what people were purchasing three years ago."

Outpricing the food

That change has spilled into restaurants in a big way.

"People have the money," says Ruth's Chris co-owner Gary Porfirio.  "They don't
just ask for quality wine any more; they demand it."

To meet that desire, Ruth's Chris has more than 200 wines at $100 or more per
bottle, including a vertical selection of Opus One that runs from $260 to $1,000
a bottle. The restaurant also pours more than 50 wines by the glass, including a
1975 port at $75 for 3 ounces.

That makes the local steak house one of the leading wine sellers in the Ruth's
Chris chain, according to local co-owner Greg Davey. Davey, who was corporate
vice president for franchising, says the wine-by-the-glass program in Austin is
the most extensive of any Ruth's Chris in the world.

One reason that happens in Austin is attitude.

"People here are looking for quality," says Ron Weiss, co-owner of Jeffrey's
Restaurant. "They want to put good things in their body. They want to treat
themselves. They want to try the finest things they can afford."

Two years ago, according to Sullivan's Steak House manager Tachella McClain,
diners rarely knew about the Far Niente Cave Collection or Silver Oak.

"Now they're coming in and asking for it as soon as they sit down," she says.
"We have to sell the Silver Oak for $180 a bottle, and they're buying it up like
nothing."

McClain says expensive wines are a recruiting tool used by businesses to help
lure people to Austin. "Businesses want to impress them," she says.  "They're
recruiting people from larger cities. It shows Austin is sophisticated, too."

The same appeal is showing up at Zoot.

The majority of weeknight customers at the small American bistro are there for
business dinners, much of themit high-tech, says owner Erika Brown. And what a
difference that makes.

Five years ago, about 20 percent of the wine sold in the restaurant was high-end
(more than $85 a bottle). Three years ago, it was 35 percent.

"We have days now -- especially weekdays -- where it's almost 85 percent
high-end wine," Brown says. "It's unbelievable."

Sophistication abounds

A man in faded wranglers, scuffed boots and a Stetson walked into Reuben's and
asked Moshein if he had any Lunche Bages in stock.

"Yes, sir," Moshein said, adding he had it at $70 a bottle.

"Great," said the man with the drooping mustache. "I'll take the case."

That may be emblematic of Austin's wine development.

"This city knows its wine," Moshein says. "We're no tidewater."

You may contact Dale Rice at drice@statesman.com or 445-3859.

(FROM BOX)

A few tips for $$$ sips

Want to spend more than $100 on a bottle of wine, but don't have any idea what
to select? Here are some recommendations of local experts:

* Musigny Joseph Drouhin 1997 ($160): "It's all of what's fine about red
Burgundy wrapped in one package. There is an interplay of spice and berry that
transcends what the wine is made of."

-- John Roenigk,

owner of

Austin Wine Merchant

* Quintarelli Alzero 1993 Cabernet Franc ($150): "This is one of the best
producers of the Valpolicella (Italy) area. He makes wonderful wines in limited
production, with quality throughout."

-- Chuck Huffaker,

co-owner of

Grape Vine Market

* Chateau Cos d'Estournel 1982 ($260): "It is classic Saint-Estephe Bordeaux of
a great year and it's at its peak to drink right now. It's the perfect Bordeaux
experience without cellaring."

-- Rob Moshein,

wine buyer at

Reuben's Emporium

* Avignonesi Vin Santo 1988 ($149.99 for a half bottle): "This Italian dessert
wine is heady and miraculous, better than Chateau d'Yquem, the greatest wine of
Sauternes in the Bordeaux region of France."

-- April Lowe,

wine manager at

Central Market

Westgate

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Demand is driving up prices for wines like the Caymus Special Selection
Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon. A bottle of the '95 vintage will set you back
about $140 .JUMP ART //A climate-controlled room keeps the fine wines at Grape
Vine Market ready for customers who don't blanch at spending up to $275 a
bottle//Rob Moshein of Reuben's Emporium recalls one customer who didn't care if
a wine was red or white as long as it was expensive. This 1995 Ferrari Carano
Cabernet Sauvignon retails for $250 at Reuben's.// Chuck Huffaker: Grape Vine
market co-owner says even young customers are buying pricey wine.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               71 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 14, 2000, Friday

The Ransom's riches; Singer's Hebrew-character typewriter. Picasso's

BYLINE: Michael Barnes

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1255 words


Most Austinites, even University of Texas insiders, don't know what lurks within
the limestone leviathan rising at Guadalupe and 21st streets. Yet the hulking
Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center holds some of the world's most valuable
literary and artistic prizes.

The curious outsider might be familiar with the oft-displayed Gutenberg Bible or
the world's first photograph. But the vast majority of the center's 36 million
manuscripts, 5 million photographs, 1 million rare books and 100,000 artworks
remain shrouded inside climate-controlled archives, available for viewing, but
only upon request and under special conditions.

This could change in two years when the Ransom Center opens a ground-floor
public gallery where the Blanton Museum of Art now shows its American
collection. In the meantime, the Ransom arrays a fraction of its wares off-site,
sometimes at the LBJ Library and Museum and other times in the Leeds Gallery, on
the fourth floor of the Flawn Academic Center (sandwiched between the UT Tower
and the Texas Student Union.)

The Ransom's current show at the Leeds, "Islands of Order: A Decade of
Collecting," samples items acquired since 1990, altogether appraised at more
than $26 million. We asked Ransom librarian Cathy Henderson to share her
favorite literary and artistic plums, explaining why the center collected each
item in the first place.

If anything sparks your interest, you're in luck: The exhibit continues through
July 31. Bonus: Because the Leeds Gallery is so obscure, you may have the place
to yourself, and plenty of time to decipher the displayed texts. Call 471-8944
or visit www.lib.utexas.edu/hrc/home for information.

British author Graham Greene's 1973 dream diary

Est. value: $20,000

Background: Greene kept diaries of his dreams for 25 years. He gathered a very
small selection of them for posthumous publication as a sort of autobiography
whose "truth could not be contested." Most remain unpublished. As such, these
diaries provide an invaluable glimpse into Greene's subconscious.

Henderson: "I find dream diaries very funny. Once Greene had a dream about the
pope walking along a seawall wearing dirty khaki pants. There's a combination of
intimacy and distance in recorded dreams. Reading one's own diaries, you think,
'Oh my God, that's so pretentious,' but Greene was simply recording the events
in his dreams without analyzing their significance."

Manuscript of John Fowles' unpublished novel

"The Device," written in the 1970s

Est. value: $20,000

Background: Although "The Device" has never been published, Fowles, author of
"The French Lieutenant's Woman" and "The Magus," borrowed themes for later,
published works.

Henderson: "It's always exhilarating to receive a collection and realize that
there's something that only you and the author have seen. That's a privilege
that, before the scholars examine it, can only happen to someone working in a
place like the Ransom Center."

Item: Letter from the American poet Ezra Pound, 70, to the critic Hugh Kenner,
age 26, dated February (1955 ).

Est. value: $1,000

Background: This letter was written by Pound after he had been tried by the
United StatesU.S. for treason and confined to an asylum. Kenner's study, "The
Pound Era," was pivotal in establishing the poet's reputation at a time when he
was viewed as a traitor.

Henderson: "Nothing in this individual letter is particularly important, but
it's exemplary of a large correspondence between a talented yet ostracized
American poet and someone, who, as a young academic, had the courage to
communicate with him."

Notebooks containing the original manuscript of Gertrude Stein's "Composition as
Explanation"

Est. value: $5,000

Background: The manuscript is the text of a lecture Stein delivered at Trinity
College, Cambridge, and Christ Church College, Oxford, in 1926. The lecture, one
of Stein's key discourses on the philosophical and linguistic concepts
underlying her work, was arranged through British poet Edith Sitwell. Sitwell's
papers are also at the center.

Henderson: "Here are two very prominent women, both modernist writers, whether
purposively or accidentallyaccidently, working together, promoting each other's
work. At the Ransom Center, we can trace their relationship through several
collections. The depth of the material is fascinating.  Frankly, I would have
assumed Stein and Sitwell would not have gotten along. I was mistaken."

March 1922 issue of Prisma, a literary journal created by Jorge Luis Borges

Est. value: $10,000

Background: A very rare literary "mural magazine," a single sheet publication
incorporating multiple texts and images, which Borges inscribed to his fellow
artistic collaborator, the Argentine poet Ricardo Molinari.  Borges autographs
and manuscripts are very scarce because he was blind for much of his life.

Henderson: "It's a beautiful object. What's really wonderful is the minuteness
of his handwriting, and to see something in his hand at all is very rare."

Various drawings done by Pablo Picasso for the photographer David Douglas Duncan

Est. value: $10,000 each

Background: These three works were gifts from Picasso to his friend Duncan, who
published several volumes of photographs of Picasso at work.  The colorful
caricatures (including Duncan as St. David) are freely drawn in Picasso's
characteristic style.

Henderson: "Well, they are Picasso drawings. What more can I say? When I heard
we were getting the Duncan archive, I had no idea about his friendship with
Picasso."

Anthony Burgess' score for a musical version of

"A Clockwork Orange," c. 1986

Est. value: $10,000

Background: Those familiar with Burgess' literary career are often surprised to
learn that he was also a serious composer. Musical composition was his chosen
vocation, but when he was falsely diagnosed with a terminal illness, he turned
to writing fiction as a means of making enough money to leave to his family.
Although Burgess continued to compose, his reputation as a novelist won out.

Henderson: "By the way, the original novel had a very different objective than
was popularly realized through the Stanley Kubrick movie. Burgess wrote a
redemptive ending."

Isaac Bashevis Singer's Hebrew-character typewriter

Est. value: $3,600

Background: Every literary archive contains a single object thatwhich seems to
sum up the life and work of its author. In 1935, Singer purchased this
typewriter on which he composed the work that culminated in a Nobel Prize . He
had a conspirator's relationship with the machine, describing it in his stories
as a sort of alter ego, which, if it didn't like a story, refused to work.

Ransom Center librarian Cathy Henderson: "It has visual appeal because of the
Hebrew characters. Yet, after all, it's only a typewriter. The importance lies
in the value Singer attached to it and in the way the object can evoke the man."

Albrecht Drer woodcut, Passion Christi ( 1511)

Est. value: $10,000

Background: This very early book, a series of 36 verses on Christ's passion, is
accompanied by illustrations by Renaissance master Drer . This is one of only a
handful of copies in the United States.

Henderson: "Who can doubt the beauty of the wood engravings? This is a very rare
book in very good condition. For the bibliophile, it's simply a wonderful object
to behold."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               74 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            May 17, 2000, Wednesday

Rhetoric against China trade proposal is nonsense

BYLINE: Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 783 words


During a visit to Shanghai last year my New York Times colleague Seth Faison and
I interviewed the top managers of one of China's largest food companies, which
had been partially privatized. While Seth interviewed the Chinese executives in
Chinese, I leafed through the company's annual report. On the first page there
were four pictures: the chairman, the vice chairman, the general manager and
"the Communist Party representative" to the company. At one point I interrupted
Seth's interview, pointed to the picture of the Communist Party rep and asked
our Chinese hosts: "Say, what does this guy do?" They waved at the picture with
disdain, as if to say: "He doesn't do anything. Just ignore him."

That encounter always stuck in my mind because it illustrated one of the
political implications of the rise of the private, free-market economy in China.
When managers and workers, students and intellectuals are no longer totally
dependent on the state or the Communist Party for jobs, they are much more
likely to speak their own mind and act on their own interests.  That is a fact
worth remembering as the U.S. Congress now debates whether to grant China
permanent normal trade relations with America.

To be sure, the claims by some Clintonites or business types that trade will
lead inexorably to democracy in China are exaggerated and too deterministic. But
even more ridiculous is the claim by John Sweeney, head of the AFL-CIO, that
"there is no information showing that China is improving its human rights
situation or workers rights situation," and thus no reason to support permanent
normalized trade ties with China.

As any regular visitor to China can see (unfortunately the U.S. unions have been
discouraging members of Congress from visiting China and seeing for themselves),
there is ample evidence that the strengthening of private enterprises and free
markets in China, and the surge in Internet usage there, is creating the space
and private incomes for more Chinese to live independent of the government and
thereby expand their personal freedoms.  And the more Chinese can live without
the state, the more the democrats among them can afford to speak their minds and
the more other Chinese can afford to listen.

Read Elisabeth Rosenthal's May 8 front-page piece from Beijing in The New York
Times. It details the messy reality of today's China, where the leadership,
terrified about the political fallout from China's joining the World Trade
Organization, is cracking down -- and will continue to do so -- at the same time
that Chinese liberals are becoming more self-confident and willing to challenge
the state.

"In the China of today," writes Rosenthal, a New York Times Beijing reporter,
"threats from the central authorities have diminished influence.  Bookstores are
still filled with provocative books. And people fired from government institutes
can now often find a way to make a living in the expanding private sector . . .
Even as Chinese intellectuals bemoan the current climate, they feel more
inconvenienced than terrified by the government's wrath. 'The methods are pretty
much the same as in Deng Xiaoping's and even Mao's time,' (a) professor said.
'What's different is that nobody pays attention anymore . . . Intellectuals
don't feel that much pressure.' "

Rosenthal also notes that several recent devastating critiques of China's
rulers, and disclosures about corruption in the Communist Party, have been
circulated first on the Internet in China, and the Chinese leadership has been
powerless to stop it. The China trade pact Congress is currently debating
greatly enhances the ability of U.S. companies to invest in Internet development
in China.

The truth is the AFL-CIO couldn't care less about political change in China.
That is just a cover for their head-in-the-sand protectionism. China could
become a democratic paradise tomorrow and Sweeney and his union would still
oppose this trade bill, because they see it (wrongly) as just a vehicle to move
U.S. manufacturing jobs to China.

The AFL-CIO is free to argue that this bill will hurt U.S. workers.  Republican
hard-liners are free to argue that China's entry into the WTO will make it a
more formidable geopolitical rival to the United States. But for either of them
to say that this bill will hurt the cause of democratization in China, or that
it won't help create more islands from which Chinese democrats can operate and
more tools by which they can communicate, is to speak utter nonsense, and, one
hopes, a majority of Congress will see it as such.

Friedman is a columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               77 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 25, 2000, Sunday

Coca-Cola's European strategy

BYLINE: Bert Roughton Jr.

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 520 words


Coca-Cola Co. is well into the restructuring of its European operations, which
is part of a global realignment of the world's largest soft drink company.
Charlie Frenette, who was named to head the operations earlier this year,
discussed the company's European strategy.

Q: What is the simple thought underlying the reorganization in Europe?

A: To make the organization structure fit the environment, not vice versa.

Q: Was Coke wrong all those years it did things the old way?

A: No, it was actually the right thing when we were expanding so rapidly in the
1980s into all those new territories after the Berlin Wall fell. But the 21st
century demands much greater local sensitivity and speed. We had to evolve.

Q: What will the company do to improve its relationship with European
regulators?

A: It's going to take time, but we've got to make a real effort to understand
their perspective. We can't just insist that we're right. Our business has
always done very well everywhere we've shown proper respect for the local
values.

Q: In the European climate today, is there an intrinsic liability in being
identified as an American company?

A: No, but it's a big liability in being identified as insensitive to local
culture and authority. We've got to adapt to their culture, not ask them to
adapt our culture.

Q: With all the independence now being granted the divisions in Europe, is there
any risk that Coke's central marketing messages will become confused or diluted?

A: All our local marketers understand the fundamental values of the brand, and
they're not going to be reckless. They're pros, and we're trusting them to let
Coca-Cola be Coca-Cola, but in a way that's very relevant in their local
culture.

Q: Employees in the field say in essence that they have been told to take risks,
to go until someone tells them they've gone too far. When do you think an ad or
a promotion has gone too far?

A: As long as it fits within our overall values and standards, they've got the
freedom to do what's best in their market. There's some risk in that, but we
think the benefits will far outweigh the risks.

Q: How important was the Belgian crisis in the evolution of the company,
particularly as that evolution is being played out in Europe?

A: Huge. We already knew we needed to change. But the crisis created an
incredible sense of urgency that probably accelerated our progress by about five
years. It's been stressful, but I'd rather deal with that stress in a few
months, not a few years.

Q: Employees talk a lot about being set free from Atlanta. What do you think
they mean when they talk about Atlanta in that context?

A: It's not the city or the headquarters building. It's just an easy symbol of
the old centralized control. We've hired a lot of really talented people. But we
didn't always let them really bring all their talent to the table, which was
frustrating for them. The important thing is that people will be held directly
accountable for their results, and won't be able to use "Atlanta" as a
scapegoat.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charles Frenette, shown aboard a train from Paris to Brussels last
year, heads Coca-Cola's European operations.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               81 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 11, 2000, Friday

Venture capital sets a record; Across nation and in Austin,

BYLINE: Jerry Mahoney, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 682 words


Undeterred by either a stock market correction or Alan Greenspan's effort to
slow the economy, venture capitalists poured a record amount of money into the
coffers of young companies during the second quarter, a new study reports today.
And in Austin, the period blew past previous quarters: Thirty-eight companies
raised a record $562 million, which was 275 percent more than the second quarter
of last year. The emphasis was on companies involved in software,
telecommunications and semiconductors. The previous record was $387.3 million
raised in the fourth quarter of 1999.

Nationally, venture capital firms invested $19.6 billion in U.S.  companies in
the second quarter, according to The MoneyTree survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers
. That was 14 percent higher than first-quarter investments of $17.14 billion
and more than double the $7.65 billion in the second quarter of 1999.

So far this year, Austin-area companies have raised $901 million, more than in
all of 1999. That puts Austin right behind much larger regions such as the
Pacific Northwest and Colorado.

"At this point, you have to look awfully hard to see a dark cloud in the silver
lining," said Kirk Walden, who is the Austin-based national director of venture
capital research for PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Venture capital firms are a vital source of money for startups scrambling to
capitalize on the changes the Internet is bringing. Unlike traditional lenders,
venture capital firms are more willing to take risks on unproven companies, in
trade for a stake in the company.  Many new companies fail, but when a company
goes public or is acquired, the venture firms can make up to 10 times their
original investment.

Venture capital firms are investing record amounts because they are raising
unprecedented amounts of money from pension funds, insurance companies,
corporations and other sources.

Austin's appeal is a matter of success begetting more success, investors say.

For example, the city's reputation as a center for software attracts new
companies looking for software developers. In addition, firms like Austin
Ventures, whose fortunes have grown along with Austin, attract more venture
capital firms to the area.

"The good thing for entrepreneurs here is . . . we're putting that much money in
and attracting other firms to invest here too," said Laura Kilcrease, founder of
Triton Ventures.

Reflecting the cooler climate for Internet companies and the retreat of tech
stocks earlier this year, venture capital firms put proportionally less money
into startups and more into mature companies, with better prospects of
eventually going public.

Austin early-stage companies accounted for 68 percent of venture backing in the
first quarter, while expansion and late-stage companies received 12 percent. In
the second quarter, Austin startups' share of the pie dropped to 58 percent,
while late-stage and expansion firms garnered 25 percent.

The fundamentals -- predictable revenue flow, prospects for profits, a large
potential customer base -- still apply, venture capital firms say.

"The willingness to back a company that is going to innovate a new business
model -- people are just less patient with that thinking," said John Thornton,
general partner at Austin Ventures.

As expected, broadband communications, a growing segment in Austin, was a big
draw during the quarter.

Venture firms invested heavily in companies that are building networks for
high-speed Internet access, cable programming and Internet telephony.

All told, four bandwidth companies received $108 million in the second quarter,
nearly 20 percent of the venture money invested in Austin.

Although Austin's entrepreneurial economy is diversifying, software remains the
area's primary attraction. Software firms accounted for 38 percent of
second-quarter investment, up from about 28 percent in the first quarter.
Nineteen companies received $213.5 million.

You may contact Jerry Mahoney at jmahoney@statesman.com or 445-3642.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               83 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 14, 2000, Monday

Window of PROSPERITY; 38 Austin startups see record amount of venture

BYLINE: Jerry Mahoney, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1488 words


Venture capital in Texas

Money raised by Texas companies compared with first quarter

Austin$561.7 million+65%

Dallas$464.6 million+95%

Houston$54.1 million-70%

San Antonio/

South Texas$4.4 million-66%

Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers

From his third-floor corner office, Glenn Lovelace looks out on the traffic
clogging MoPac Boulevard and sees daily affirmation that his plans to capitalize
on the growing appeal of telecommuting are on track.

Dubious at first, venture capitalists now agree.

In the second quarter, more than a half-dozen firms pumped $47.8 million into
TManage Inc., the company Lovelace founded in January 1998. TManage designs,
installs and maintains telecommuting programs for a growing roster of customers
that includes Hewlett-Packard, BellSouth, Nortel Networks, the U.S. Department
of Energy and the City of Austin.

It was the second-biggest round of financing for an Austin company during a
quarter that defied expectations nationwide.

Venture capitalists were expected to pull back from their liberal-lending ways
of the previous two quarters after the stock market lost interest in Internet
startups with creative business plans.

That didn't happen, according to a new report by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the
accounting and consulting firm. Its MoneyTree survey showed VC firms pumped a
record $19.6 billion into U.S. companies in the second quarter, more than double
the $7.65 billion in the second quarter of 1999 and 14 percent higher than the
first quarter's $17.14 billion.

Austin broke records too, as 38 companies raised $562 million, up 275 percent
over the same quarter last year.

Taking closer looks

Although Lovelace is sitting on a cushion of cash now, he said raising money is
never easy. His experience shows the difficulties entrepreneurs face and the
determination they need to overcome venture capitalists' skepticism, even when
the venture firms are raising unprecedented amounts of money from pension funds,
companies and wealthy individuals.

Lovelace faced two additional challenges in the second quarter. Investors were
concerned about the Nasdaq's 37 percent decline between early March and late
May, plus venture capitalists had never seen a proposal like Lovelace's.

"We are the first in this market," he said. "Venture capitalists are really
risk-averse."

TManage is a graduate of the Austin Technology Incubator, which gives startups
cheap office space and administrative help while they focus on their technology.

TManage builds and maintains telecommuting systems for its clients, often
working with local telecommunications and cable companies to get employees the
fastest Internet connection . It also will supply, through partners such as H-P,
computers, printers and home-office furniture.

But the company also is investing heavily in hardware to maintain the networks.
Inside the office near MoPac and Far West Boulevard, the company has a bank of
Sun Microsystems servers in one locked room and a wall of giant screens in
another that constantly monitor the networks it has built for customers.

Lovelace, 42, the former director of telecommuting at Nortel Networks, exhibits
a calm personality that belies a stubborn, if not obsessive, focus on his goals.

He has pitched his business plan to more than 100 venture capital firms since he
founded the company. He had raised about $8 million in two previous rounds
before he went looking for much bigger money to expand the company's sales and
marketing and build network infrastructure.

"We're scaling now so that in three years we could handle between 2 (million)
and 5 million telecommuters," Lovelace said.

He keeps the names of every venture capitalist he's approached on his computer
and e-mails each of them every news release TManage churns out -- including the
announcement of the new financing.

"We had to go outside of Austin for that amount, but we didn't have to go out of
Austin," for all of it , Lovelace said.

Techxas Ventures and Austin Ventures funded the company's first two rounds.
Austin Ventures, G-51 Capital and Dell Ventures were in on the recent round.

Normally, VC firms like to syndicate fundings as big as $48 million, which means
they invite other venture capitalists to participate to spread the risk. But in
a record-setting quarter, when venture capital firms were flooded with deals,
Lovelace said it was up to him to find more investors.

He got some help from Dell employees who invested individually and tipped off
Dell Ventures.

But the big break came when Hewlett-Packard came on board with venture backing
and a contract to organize a telecommuting program for the Silicon Valley-based
PC company.

Still, national economic events slowed his money-raising.

"When the market shook, it hurt a lot," said Lovelace.

One firm backed out completely; two others cut back their investment. The others
took a harder look at TManage.

"They were more careful, they talked to more customers and they took longer to
make a decision," he said.

"We probably would have raised about $60 million without the market shaking like
it did," Lovelace said.

As it was, Lovelace decided to borrow $6 million in addition to the VC funding.

An IPO is on the radar screen for sometime next year, Lovelace said.

Taking critical look

Venture capitalists confirm that while the money to invest is abundant, the
climate is changing in the wake of what some have called the "tech wreck." The
days of investing in Internet startups with creative business plans are gone.

"The willingness to think a company is going to innovate a new business model --
people are just less patient with that thinking," said John Thornton, general
partner of Austin Ventures.

In another change, some firms are assigning lower valuations on companies they
back, which means that founders have to give up more shares to the venture
capitalists, while some entrepreneurs are asking for more money in case they
have to delay a public stock offering.

"They may raise an extra 10 or 15 percent, because of the uncertainty of the
capital markets," Thornton said.

Stan Tims, a managing director at TL Ventures in Austin, said business plans are
getting closer looks.

"We're probably much more focused on finding out what the milestones are to get
to the next funding event," he said.

"There's a little bit less frivolity, a little bit less experimentation."

Venture capitalists say they also want signs that an entrepreneur's product will
find a market. Ideally, that would include satisfied customers, but if that's
not possible, they want to know how beta versions -- products on the verge of
launch -- were received.

The diversification of Austin's high-tech landscape is reflected in the
second-quarter financings.

Telecommunications companies, particularly those building high-bandwidth systems
to provide fast Internet access, cable programming and Internet-based telephone
service, accounted for nearly 20 percent of the total.

Grande Communications Corp., which will provide those services between Austin
and San Antonio with fiber-optic cable, received $75 million from more than 10
firms. ClearSource Inc., which is building a broadband network to serve
medium-size cities, raised $20 million.

ClearSource Chief Executive Bear Poth said the company raised nearly $170
million in the past year.

But software remains Austin's biggest draw. Nineteen companies raised $213.5
million, or 38 percent of the total. In the first quarter, 12 companies raised
$94.1 million, or nearly 28 percent.

Allmystuff.com, a year-old company that wants to manage warranty and service
records for manufacturers and retailers, raised $11 million in first-round
backing from TL Ventures and Dell Ventures. Founded by Jens Tellefsen, who
created a successful software line for Trilogy Software Corp., allmystuff.com
will enable consumers to register purchases on the Web.

The information will be stored in private, virtual file cabinets and combined
with a consumer's other warranty records, electronic receipts, digital owner's
manuals and addresses of repair sites. In addition to simplifying record
keeping, allmystuff.com will enable manufacturers and stores to market products,
accessories, special premiums and other information to customers.

Allmystuff.com, which is Dell's first investment in a startup, will appeal to
consumers, but its potential lies in what it offers manufacturers, said Tom
Meredith, managing director of Dell Ventures.

"The appeal for Dell Ventures is the company goes to the manufacturing (with) a
significant value proposition, especially as they build a database," he said.

You may contact Jerry Mahoney at jmahoney@statesman.com or 445-3642.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Telecommunications companies, including CEO Bear Poth's ClearSource,
led in local investments, receiving 19 poercent of the capital.//TManage CEO
Glenn Lovelace, in his company's showroom in Northwest Austin, has pitched his
company to 100 venture capitalists since starting. He received $47.8 million in
the second quarter.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               84 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 8, 2000, Friday

Coaches who bully can cause long-term damage

BYLINE: Fran Harris

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 593 words


Have you or your child ever been confronted with a difficult coach?  Well,
hopefully what happened at Indiana University this spring will shed some light
on the issue of coaches who bully their athletes.

During his 2930-year career at Indiana , head basketball coach Bobby Knight has
thrown chairs, kicked tables and cursed out numerous NCAA officials. In Mayrch,
university officials decided they'd had enough and issued Knight a fine, a
formal reprimand and zero-tolerance policy .  Their actions followed accusations
by a former player that Knight choked him he apparently choked one of his former
players during a practice session.

Knight's story is one that very well could have happened in our own back yard.
Because for every John Wooden -- a great coach who treated his athletes with
respect, there is a coach like Knight who believes you have to intimidate and
bully players to get them to perform. I disagree.

You may wonder how someone with Knight-like tactics could possibly keep a
coaching job. Sadly, quite easily. Sometimes the administrators who hire the
coaches are not aware of what's going on. And some administrators are aware of
problems but are more concerned about winning percentages than an athlete's
safety.  Intimidating athletes may result in short-term benefits, but over the
long haul it can do irreparable damage to an athlete's confidence and ability to
perform.

Here is some advice on dealing with kids and coaches.

* Look for signs that your child might be playing for a bully. If there's a
change in your child's attitude toward practice, it may have something to do
with the coach. It may not be a bad idea to stop by occasionally to check out
the climate.

* Find out how your kids feel about their coaches. Older kids tend to be more
verbal about their likes and dislikes where coaches are concerned. But it's
important to keep the lines of communication open with kids of all ages,
especially younger ones. Ask your athletes how they like playing for with their
coach and listen carefully to the response. If you hear something such as,
"She's OK. But she made Kyle cry yesterday," you should probably investigate
further.

* If you have to approach a bullying coach, remember that you are an adult
approaching another adult. Believe it or not, I've seen parents who were afraid
to talk to their kids' coaches. The coach may be in an authoritative role with
your kid, but he or she is not your boss.

The best thing to do is to avoid putting the coach on the defense. Don't go into
the conversation with a list of accusations, but instead couch the discussion as
a concerned parent. A typical approach might be, "Coach, I'd love to sit down
and talk to you about my son's progress on your team. Is Tuesday after practice
a good time for you?"

* If you've tried to discuss the situation directly with the coach and there's
been no improvement, contact the person responsible for hiring the coach.  Make
sure the person you contact can keep your concerns in confidence. You don't want
a coach taking out his or her frustrations on your child.

* If all else fails, consider removing your child from the team.

Remember, parental involvement is imperative because no matter how successful a
coach has been , no child deserves to be subjected to abuse.

If you have a question you'd like Fran Harris to answer, please e-mail her at
raisingoodsports@aol.com or write to her at Raising Good Sports, P.O. Box 5285,
Austin TX 78763.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               85 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

this timel; There's no buffer for their art assolo performers Holly

BYLINE: michael barnes american-statesman arts writer

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 872 words


They roared out of clubs, coffee houses and offbeat theaters. Congressmen
excoriated them. Academics and critics exalted them.

Now, 10 years after the country's most outrageous performance artists made
political headlines with their often heretical reflections, they are still
sharing unorthodoxies with audiences.

This week, the first of three key American soloists, Holly Hughes, presents
"Preaching to the Perverted" at the Off Center as part of the Rude Mechanicals'
"Throws Like a Girl" series. Peggy Shaw and Deb Margolin, co-founders of the
feminist troupe Split Britches, follow in October and November.

How has this theatrical form changed since the heady days of the late '80s and
early '90s?

"It's still going" says Hughes, one of Sen. Jesse Helms' favorite targets in the
National Endowment for the Arts wars, "and was going on before there was much
attention paid to it."

"I do think it's changed, of necessity" says Jill Dolan, University of Texas
professor and Rude Mechanicals board member. "The climate of censorship and
attack that surrounded the work in the late '80s and early '90s made a lot of
artists very vulnerable, and turned them inwards, in some ways. Work that used
to be very confrontational physically, as well as politically, has now become
more narrative, as stories are told that express the anger and frustration and
vulnerability of these artists."

One thing is certain, the term "performance artist" has long since gone out of
fashion.

"When I first began to write solo pieces for myself in the 1980s, I thought I
was a playwright," says Margolin, whose "O Wholly Night (And Other Jewish
Solecisms)" focuses on Jewish anticipation of the Messiah.  "I didn't realize
that I was part of a movement, a literary and theatrical genre, called
performance art. In fact, I hated being called a performance artist; the word
'artist' after something puts it in quotes, seems pejorative. I see in
retrospect, and with the help of intelligent theorists and critics, that I was
part of something so much larger than myself."

Now, "soloist" or "solo performer" works just fine.

"My experience has been that some of the most exciting performance these days is
solo," says Shaw, whose "Menopausal Gentleman" is described as part
autobiographical monologue, part stand-up comedy, part lounge act.  "The bravery
and desire expres

sed in it seem possible because of the nature of it."

What about the audience? Do these artists change minds or merely preach to the
converted?

"My intended audience is whoever shows up," Hughes says. "I was criticized in
the past because I let men in, which is ridiculous to me. My show is a
commentary, or at least the title is, a comment on the whole notion of preaching
to the converted. It's only artists from stigmatized groups that are accused of
this."

For Margolin, solo performance is an opportunity to share social observations.

"I perform out of an impulse to point at what I see," she says. "(To point at)
what moves me, torments me, makes me laugh uncontrollably, what arouses and
arrests me, and says to an audience: Excuse me! Did you see that? Am I the only
jerk who saw that? Excuse me! Please! Have a look at this! I perform so as not
to be alone with my experience."

These performances are not just for specialized spectators.

"Many artists -- like Holly and Peggy and Deb -- want to reach the largest
possible audience with their work," Dolan says. "And they should.  They have a
lot to say about the condition of American culture that everyone navigates on a
daily basis. So although their work might start from a specific perspective, I
do think it has a wide reach."

No matter how wide their influence, these artists firmly base their performances
on personal experience.

"I think all art forms are personal testimony," Margolin says. "We have nothing
to write about but ourselves, our own lives and complaints and desires."

"I find the stuff people tell me about what really happened to them in their
daily life much more intriguing then anything they invent," Hughes says. "Not
that you can't embroider, improve and even lie. Sometimes lying brings you
closer to the truth. I like to think of what I do as 'new and improved
autobiography.'"

"The personal quality provides the resonance," Dolan says. "It provides
intimacy, and places to identify (even if they're unexpected), and ways to be
moved, that make people think about their own lives in a deeper, perhaps more
generous and informed way."

OK, but do you have to be a lesbian or a feminist to like it?

"I know people fear feeling excluded when they see it's a lesbian performance,"
Hughes says. "To get around that, I pronounce everyone lesbians for the night."

You may contact Michael Barnes at mbarnes@statesman.com or 445-3647.

When: Holly Hughes' 'Preaching to the Perverted', 8 p.m., today through
Saturday; Peggy Shaw's 'Menopausal Gentleman,' 8 p.m., Oct. 12-14; Deb
Margolin's 'Oh Wholly Night (And Other Jewish Solecisms),' 8 p.m., Nov. 2-4

Where: The Off Center, 2211-A Hidalgo St.

How much: $12-$15

Info: 476-7833

'Throws

Like a Girl'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Holly Hughes, today through Saturday.; Peggy Shaw,Oct. 12-14.; Deb
Margolin Nov. 2-4'Throws Like a Girl'

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               86 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

Health-care price increases; Who will bear the cost?; Employers or

BYLINE: Amy Schatz, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2090 words


Trilogy Software Corp. gushes about its "cool" benefits: Friday afternoon patio
parties and a free concierge service that picks up dry cleaning and ferries
employees' cars to and from oil changes.

But Trilogy's most valuable benefit may be the one its young employees take most
for granted: free health insurance. Trilogy faces double-digit health-care cost
increases this year but isn't passing along the higher costs to employees.

"It's just a cost of doing business," said Mark Buchsbaum, director of
compensation and benefits at Trilogy. The company may have a hard time
swallowing a 20 percent increase, he said, but in a tight labor market, it can't
afford not to.

Other Austin workers, including those in government and higher education, aren't
as fortunate. At the beginning of September, state workers with dependents
started paying an extra $30 in premiums each month. Federal workers will see
premiums rise in January an average of 10.5 percent.

Businesses large and small are facing rising health-care costs. But the way
employers are handling those increases is the latest example of the widening
chasm between Austin's "new economy" and "old economy" companies. High-tech
workers aren't just earning more than Austin's traditional work force, they're
getting better benefits, too. Some of the area's largest employers -- the state,
University of Texas and the City of Austin -- are passing along at least some of
the costs. But many high-tech firms say they can't afford to in a market with
just 2 percent unemployment.

The rising cost of health care is a national problem. Health-care costs are
expected to increase 7 percent or 8 percent in 2001, according to two recent
surveys. The increases are even higher in Texas, as health insurance companies
struggle toward profitability after years of heavy losses.  Employers are seeing
increases of 8 percent to 20 percent, depending on the insurance plan and the
employer's size, analysts say.

Within the next few months, workers across the state will find out the bad news:
How much premiums and co-payments are going up for next year.

"You have three dynamics at the same time: a very low unemployment rate, the
difficulty in retaining workers and . . . tremendous pressure on the health
plans to turn around their financial picture," said Mark Bailey, a health-care
analyst with William M. Mercer Inc., a benefits consulting firm in Dallas. Many
high-tech companies are "unable to shift costs back to employees," he said.

That's certainly the case at Bluecurrent Inc., an Austin-based company that
helps customers track and update their computer systems. Officials there are
still in sticker shock after getting word that their health insurance costs were
going up 16 percent for 2001.

"Last year it only went up about 8 percent. I was expecting about that this
year," said Tony Bostwick, Bluecurrent's chief financial officer.

He's shopping for a different plan to cover the company's 150 full-time
employees, hoping to find one that will hold the cost increase to about 8
percent.

The company has been paying most employee premiums in a preferred provider plan.
But Bluecurrent may have to encourage employees to join an HMO, instead of its
PPO, which allows more flexibility. And the company's hope of paying all of its
employees' premiums this year has vanished.

"What you have to do is look at your overall cost of keeping an employee at
(his) desk -- or in our case, on the street," Bostwick said. "One way is in the
benefits and having the best health benefits available."

Able to contain costs

Managed care was supposed to stop escalating health-care costs, and for a while
that's exactly what happened.

Managed-care insurance companies lowered costs by aggressively bargaining down
reimbursements to hospitals and doctors while limiting the access patients had
to expensive medical treatments. Employers were able to contain health insurance
costs by encouraging employees to leave expensive traditional pay-for-service
insurance plans and join HMOs, whether they wanted to or not.

By the mid-1990s, health-care costs had plummeted. HMOs further lowered costs by
undercutting each other in an effort to gain market share in key markets. From
1994 through 1998, the average cost of providing health insurance per employee
grew at less than the rate of inflation.

But it couldn't go on forever. Health-care analysts point to three issues to
explain the current increase in prices:

* The drive for larger enrollments led to astronomical losses for HMOs in the
past few years in Texas. Last year, Prudential Health Care Plan Inc.  lost more
than $200 million, according to a report filed with the state.  Humana Health
Plan of Texas Inc. lost more than $50 million in 1999, five times its 1998 loss.

Current rate increases are a result of "catch-up pricing by health insurers as
they attempt to restore profitability after a period of intense price
competition between 1994 and 1998," according to a study released this week by
the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a philanthropy devoted to health-care
issues.

"What we saw was an artificial depression in terms of cost," said Bailey, the
William Mercer analyst.

In Texas, managed-care companies also have been forced to raise rates because of
a 1998 rule from the Texas Department of Insurance, which basically said that
HMOs had to charge rates that would keep them financially sound.

"In the past, (HMOs) had filed rates that were below their cost," said Leah
Rummel, executive director of the Texas Association of Health Plans, an HMO
industry trade group.

* Acrimonious negotiations with hospitals and physician groups have been another
strain on HMO finances. The federal Balanced Budget Act of 1997 cut
reimbursements to hospitals and other health-care providers. Those facilities
and physicians began demanding higher reimbursements from the one place they
knew they could get them: private insurers.

* The rising cost of prescription drugs is perhaps the most widely acknowledged
cause for the price increases.

Last year, prescription drug costs rose an estimated 15 percent, according to a
1999 study by William Mercer. Similar increases are expected this year.

Many employers encourage the use of mail-order prescription plans through lower
co-pays. Another popular option is charging higher co-pays for drugs that are
not on a list of approved preferred drugs. Drugs on the list are generally
generic drugs or cheaper alternatives to newer, more expensive pharmaceuticals.

Earlier this month, more than 500,000 state workers had to start paying more for
prescription drugs. Drug co-pays rose from $10 to $20 for a 90-day supply of
preferred name-brand drugs and from $15 to $40 for preferred mail-order drugs.

Small businesses hit

Because they have less bargaining power with health insurance companies, small
businesses often see the highest increases in health-care costs.

Jan Triplett, chief operating officer of the Business Success Center in Austin,
said small-business owners desperately need affordable options.

"This is the top issue nationwide for small-business owners," she said.  "It's
just crazy out there."

Small-business owners said they are trying to swallow the higher costs without
passing them on to their employees, since they're also competing for workers.

"In this particular climate in Austin, I would do anything to keep the people I
have on hand," said Max Thomas, owner of Max's catering in Austin.

Thomas said it's costing him about $1,000 a month to provide coverage for four
full-time workers. If that cost were to double, he might be hard-pressed to keep
it up, but he would try. "I just don't want the turnover," he said.

At Guiltless Gourmet, which makes low-fat snack foods, the company has tried to
keep rates reasonable for its 10 local employees and their children, despite an
18 percent increase in insurance costs from Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Still,
the company cannot afford to underwrite the cost of covering spouses.

Renee Kirk, the office manager, covers herself and her two girls for $380 a
year, but if she added her husband to the policy, the cost would be $4,754.
Between child-care costs, a mortgage and her husband's efforts to launch a new
business -- they've spent $24,000 on it since April -- the couple decided they
could not afford health insurance for him.

"The money's not there to pick him up . . . without cutting into the food budget
or the kids," Kirk said.

And while the region's public employers have more bargaining power than small
businesses, they have also seen costs rise dramatically.

Health-care costs rose almost 8 percent -- or $71.5 million -- this year to
cover state employees and retirees. But almost half of that came out of the
system's emergency reserve funds, which are now depleted. Future increases are
likely if the Legislature doesn't provide more funding for the health plan,
state officials acknowledge.

The Employees Retirement System of Texas, which administers health plans for the
state workers, said the recent premium increases for state workers were
necessary to avert a fiscal crisis. State employees see the increases first
because they are on a fiscal year, not a calendar year.  But employees say that
another crisis -- as grave as a budget shortfall -- looms for the state.

Last year, the state lost about 18 percent of its employees. This year,
employees are seeing health-care costs devour a large portion of the $100
monthly pay raise that lawmakers gave them in the last session. The battle for
the raise, the first in six years, was hard-fought, and employees were angry
that its real value was pared.

"Salaries for state employees have always lagged to varying degrees behind the
private sector," said Gary Anderson, president of the Texas Public Employees
Association. "The value of benefits used to be kind of an offset to lucrative
wages in the private sector. But the evidence is showing that the value of
benefits is decreasing."

The news is little better in local school districts, which are asking employees
to pay more out-of-pocket for health care in the midst of a teacher shortage.

In Austin, where coverage is more generous than in smaller, rural districts,
premiums for employees with dependents rose by 7 percent, while prescription
drug co-pays have increased from $10 to $15 this year.

"Seven percent is significant, especially when teachers only got a 3 percent pay
raise," said Louis Malfaro, co-president of the union Education Austin. "While
the pay might not be good, benefits would be an inducement to me to stay in the
field."

City of Austin employees are forking over $55 a month more in premiums to cover
their families and $5 more for prescription drugs, said benefits manager Delia
Hernandez.

Meanwhile, many private companies hope to continue shouldering the extra health
care costs as long as they can.

At Exterprise Inc., which develops software that helps match buyers with
suppliers on the Internet, company officials plan to absorb health insurance
increases of about 9 percent this year. The 2-year old Austin startup pays
health-care premiums for its 160 employees.

"We pay for premiums because it helps people take the leap of faith to join us.
They expect to get competitive pay and benefits," said David Hughen, vice
president of human resources."We find that in this marketplace, you have to save
solid benefits."

Still, next year the company hopes to have enough employees so it can offer a
cafeteria-style benefits plan, which gives employees more choices but also
decreases costs.

"The vast majority of folks are finding ways to share the burden of these costs
with employees," said Hughen.

Absorbing double digit increases is just "not sustainable over time," he said.
"That's a very high cost of doing business."

Statesman staff writers Gaiutra Bahadur and Mary Ann Roser contributed to this
article. You may contact Amy Schatz at aschatz@statesman.com or 912-5932.

(FROM BOX)

Breakdown of emploer cost

Employer spending on health care has risen faster than employee compensation.
Here's what employers spend on benefits per employee-hour worked.

(SEE MICROFILM FOR GRAPH)

(FROM BOX)

HMO Enrollment

(SEE MICROFILM FOR GRAPH)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Max Thomas, right, talking with employee Chris Bybee on Thursday, says
he will try to absorb the higher cost of providing health care to the employees
of his catering business. Otherwise, he fears he will lose them.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               92 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 12, 2000, Sunday

Integrating the NBA; It happened Oct. 31, 1950, when Earl Lloyd of

BYLINE: Mark Rosner American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1479 words


The first African American to compete in an NBA game said his arrival 50 years
ago produced neither publicity nor acrimony comparable to the integration of
major-league baseball by Jackie Robinson three years earler.  Earl Lloyd said
his first game -- with the Washington Capitols on Oct. 31, 1950, in Rochester,
N.Y. -- passed without incident from fans. Lloyd does not recall the landmark
day even receiving received coverage in newspapers.

"If you had to handpick a game where the first black guy would perform, you
couldn't have picked a better place," said Lloyd, who later experienced racism
in other cities. "In 1950 it was a little, sleepy upstate town where the schools
were integrated, so people were used to seeing blacks and whites playing against
each other.

"When people ask about that first game, they want to hear that the Ku Klux Klan
was there with ropes. But believe me, that first game, it was totally and
unequivocally uneventful. To add a little light to it, it was played on Oct. 31
and there is some significance to that date, that's Halloween. Maybe they
thought I was a goblin or something."

One day later, Chuck Cooper, the first black man drafted by an NBA team,
appeared in a Boston Celtics uniform. Sweetwater Clifton, a former Harlem
Globetrotter, joined the New York Knicks that year, and Hank DeZonie played in
five games with Tri-Cities.

The trailblazer

Lloyd believes integration of the NBA was easier because Robinson cleared the
way in a game that was a much bigger part of the culture. The NBA, four years
old at the time, was a sapling obscured on the American sports landscape by
baseball. For that reason, Lloyd said he was never upset that the first blacks
in the NBA did not get the recognition that Robinson received.

"You have to remember that professional baseball was our national pastime,"
Lloyd, 72, said. "It's very hard to get excited about something where some of
the teams are playing in high school gymnasiums. The notoriety factor was just
not there at that time. I think the infusion of three black players in the NBA
in 1950 was received with a kind of ho-hum attitude."

At least by players and coaches, if not some fans. Robinson wasn't even given
that much of a break. He had to endure the racist attitudes of some teammates,
opponents, coaches, managers and fans. Lloyd said the insults he faced were from
fans -- those in St. Louis were considered the most abusive -- and businesses
that refused to serve him.

"In 13 years, I never remember an opponent in the heat of anger throwing a
racial taunt of any kind," Lloyd said. "I never had anything that resembled a
problem of a racial nature with a teammate or opposing player.  Neither did
Chuck."

Cooper died in 1984. Red Auerbach, the Boston Celtics' coach and general manager
who drafted him, believes many white basketball players of that time already had
played with or against blacks. Back then, most basketball players attended four
years of college. Baseball players of the era had largely become pros after high
school.

"Most of our athletes had participated in sports with white, black, it didn't
make any difference," Auerbach said. "They were used to this integration."

The first move

Auerbach and Celtics owner Walter Brown made the first move toward integration
with the second-round draft selection of Cooper, who played at Duquesne
University in Pittsburgh.

According to "Tall Tales," a book written by Terry Pluto, one of the other
owners said to Brown, "Don't you know he's a Negro?" Brown reportedly replied,
"I don't care if he's plaid, all I know is that this kid can play."

Auerbach said the Celtics chose the best available player.

"We didn't concern ourselves with any repercussions," Auerbach said.

If Auerbach takes a matter-of-fact attitude about drafting Cooper, Lloyd
believes that choice opened the NBA's door for him. Washington drafted Lloyd,
who played at West Virginia State, in the ninth round.

"If Red Auerbach and Mr. Brown had not chosen Chuck Cooper in the second round
of the draft -- and I have the information to support this notion -- I just
believe that given the racial climate in Washington D.C., in 1950, I'd be hard
pressed to think that the Washington Capitols would have stepped up and made me
the first to be chosen," Lloyd said. "I personally think that I owe Red and
Walter Brown and Chuck Cooper a tremendous vote of thanks."

Over the years, African Americans, including the great Celtics center Bill
Russell, were frustrated and angry about racism in the Boston area.  According
to teammates, when Russell -- who played for the Celtics from 1956-69 -- once
shopped for a nice house in a Boston suburb, some residents circulated a
petition against him. But the team itself was different. More than one Celtic
offered to share a hotel room with Cooper on the road. Bob Cousy, the great
guard who roomed with Cooper, said he did not feel external pressure to abandon
him.

"This may sound naive, but it was never an issue," Cousy said. "Earl, obviously
can speak, because . . . unless you walk in this society in black skin, it is
very difficult to relate to the pain I think it can cause.  Being white and
being one of the high-profile players, I think I was sensitive to it so I don't
think I ignored anything that Chuck was going through.

"There was nothing unusual about his relationship with the team. I think a lot
of that has to do with how Arnold (Auerbach) handled him. I thought Arnold
handled it, in my judgment, by not handling it. In other words, he treated Chuck
like he treated everyone else."

Cooper played six seasons in the NBA, the last two with Milwaukee, St.  Louis
and Fort Wayne. He averaged 6.7 points and 5.9 rebounds a game. Lloyd played
nine seasons, six with Syracuse after the Washington team disbanded midway
through his rookie season. He averaged 8.4 points and 6.4 rebounds.  Lloyd
coached the Detroit Pistons for most of the 1971-72 season and seven games the
following season, finishing with a 22-55 record.

Turned away by racism

Lloyd's first season as a player lasted only seven games because he was drafted
into the Army for two years. Though Lloyd was with the team for only two weeks
that season, he recalls one experience with segregation.

"We went to Fort Wayne, Indiana, to play the Pistons and we went to the hotel
and they allowed me to sleep in the hotel, but they wouldn't allow me to eat in
the hotel," Lloyd said. "Somebody asked me if that bothered me, and I said that
coming from Virginia and being born in the late '20s and growing up in the '30s
and '40s, I was shocked that they even let me sleep in the hotel.

"But (Washington Coach) Bones McKinney, a very special person to me, knew I
couldn't eat downstairs so he knocked on my door and we sat and talked about the
situation and that we couldn't change it, but he said I was a part of this team
and he refused to eat. Of course, I talked him into going back down to eat. But
I explained to him that just the gesture was enough. He did something that most
folks wouldn't have done and wouldn't have been very popular."

In "Tall Tales," former teammates of Cooper and Lloyd recall several incidents
when the black players were denied rooms or meals during the 1950s in non-NBA
cities where preseason games were held. Alex Hannum, who played with Cooper in
Milwaukee, recalls him being banned from a game in Baton Rouge, La. -- a step up
from Shreveport and New Orleans, where he was not allowed in the gym.

After nearly a decade of incidents, the NBA board of governors announced a
policy in January 1959 to protect black players against the indignity and
embarrassment of segregation. NBA officials said there had not been problems in
the league's eight home cities. But more than a year later, Lenny Wilkens, a
rookie guard for St. Louis, said he and another black player with the Hawks were
denied service at a restaurant in that city.

The catalyst for the board of governors meeting in 1959 was a preseason game
between Minneapolis and Cincinnati in Charleston, W. Va. When the Lakers checked
into their hotel, the front desk clerk looked at three black players and said,
"We can't take those three. We run a respectable hotel."

Elgin Baylor, a Lakers rookie who would become one of the NBA's greatest
players, said nothing but decided to boycott the game.

His teammate Hot Rod Hundley, a white man raised in Charleston, tried to
dissuade Baylor from his protest. But Baylor said, "Rod, I'm a human being. I'm
not an animal to be put in a cage and let out for the show."

Hundley, finally understanding, said, "Baby, don't play."

Mark Rosner may be reached at mrosner@statesman.com or 445-3958.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOP: Earl Lloyd was honored with a plaque on the 50th anniversary of
his becoming the first black player in the NBA. Lloyd played nine seasons in the
league and later coached the Detroit Pistons for parts of two seasons.; ABOVE:
Said Earl Lloyd (blocking shot), 'When people ask about that first game, they
want to hear that the Ku Klux Klan was there with ropes. But believe me, that
first game, it was totally and unequivocally uneventful.'

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman


                               95 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 25, 2000, Monday

Upstarts revisted: The Big Winner: Exterprise

BYLINE: Heather Cocks, Jerry Mahoney, Robert Elder Jr., American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Tech Monday; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1283 words


Bursting at the seams and spread across at least three different rooms at the
Austin Technology Incubator, Exterprise in April was thrilled about its move
into spacious new North Austin digs.

Still, it was equally pleased to leave a piece of itself behind.  The incubator
rechristened a conference room the "Exterprise Room," honoring what has become
one of its most prosperous graduates. "We're very proud of it," says Manoj
Saxena, chief executive of Exterprise. "About six weeks ago, we had the ATI
people over for pizza, because you can never forget the people who helped get
you to where you are."

In November 1999, shortly after entering the incubator, Exterprise had a modest
$1 million in funding; a pre-launch, unpolished beta version of its product; and
no official customers.

Sixty-two employees were gunning to put the finishing touches on e-commerce
software, called ActiveMarket, aimed at one entity selling to one person --
something to help retail Web sites personalize themselves for each visitor.
Three companies had signed up to test Exterprise's beta-stage software, but the
company was still waiting to reap the spoils of its hard work.

Exterprise is now a 200-employee company with 20 customers -- Dell Computer
Corp. and Sprint Corp. among them -- and has weathered a bruising 2000 for tech
companies. Its software has morphed into a product that targets those Internet
exchanges, offering help in linking large networks of buyers with big clusters
of vendors. Saxena likens ActiveMarket to the body of a butterfly -- something
connecting two things that otherwise couldn't work together.

The company is on version 4.0 of ActiveMarket and counts 3M Co., Bell Canada,
MoneyandValues.com and John Deere among its clients. But Exterprise's biggest
score came in September at the DirectConnect conference, where Dell announced
that the company's programs would be the backbone of the Round Rock
computer-maker's online marketplace for business customers. ActiveMarket also
lets companies such as 3M create online showrooms for a specific line of
products, such as Post-It Notes or ergonomically correct office supplies.

In the past year, Exterprise has attracted $32 million in two rounds of funding
from local names such as Triton Ventures, Austin Ventures and Dell Ventures.

This spring, Exterprise will pursue its third round of financing, after which
time the logical next step would be an initial public stock offering, according
to Saxena. Despite the apparent nervousness of tech investors, Saxena said he
has total faith in his company.

"We're fortunate enough to be approached by VCs on their own volition," Saxena
says. "There's a flight to quality, and people are looking for companies who are
in the middle stage."

-- Heather Cocks

The Acquisition: Evity

When Evity was gobbled up by BMC Software Inc. in May for about $100 million in
stock, some people assumed the small startup would vanish inside the big Houston
company, and its founders would take their BMC shares and move on.

After all, BMC sells hundreds of software products. It had revenue of $1.7
billion last year. Evity came from the Austin Technology Incubator, where it was
trying to stretch $1.5 million in angel financing to develop a service that
monitors how Web sites treat visitors.

In fact, eight months after the sale, the Evity team is increasingly hard to
spot inside BMC's campus in Northwest Austin. But that's because BMC created a
new business unit around it and expanded it from Evity's 26 employees to more
than 70.

"Every single one of our original employees is still with us," says Rob Neville,
who co-founded Evity with Clay Davis in January 1999.

Neville is vice president of engineering for the Service Provider Solutions
unit, and Davis is vice president of business development and marketing.

BMC wanted Evity's SiteAngel 2000 technology, which monitors whether Web sites
can be accessed and how quickly they process transactions. But it also liked the
business model, which bills customers monthly, rather than selling lifetime use
of software for a single payment. Monthly billing generates a reliable revenue
stream. Part of Davis and Neville's job is to figure out which of BMC's hundreds
of products and services can be sold that way.

"We're a change agent for the way BMC sells its software," said Neville, 34.

The only disappointment for those who owned stock in Evity is the 64 percent
plunge in BMC's stock price since early May, when the deal closed.  At Friday's
closing price of $14.06 a share, the $100 million acquisition price has been
shaved to about $30 million.

Shareholders got some cash in the deal early on, but most still have their BMC
stock, says Neville, who takes a philosophical view.

"If Evity was alone, its value would have gone down, too," he says.

-- Jerry Mahoney

The Downside: Blinq Idea Factory, Electrocast

They must have seemed like good ideas during the heyday of Internet fever, when
a lot of ideas sounded plausible.

Blinq Idea Factory was the brainchild of two Deloitte Consulting colleagues,
Geoff Helt of Austin and Louis Kolssak of Chicago.

Blinq pitched itself as a consultant that could do everything from build Web
sites to advise firms on technological advances they could use. Blinq was also
going to be a "next-generation recruiting and career-development service," Helt
says.

Electrocast started life as a content site for "Generation Y," which means
anyone younger than the Generation X crowd (and a whole lot younger than baby
boomers).

Today, Blinq is a week away from shutting down, and Electrocast is in what it
describes as last-ditch merger talks.

Helt says he will try to do as a sole management consultant what Blinq intended
to do. He attributes Blinq's failure to a lack of focus -- a not-uncommon trait
for Net entrepreneurs. "We tried to do too much too fast, and we were trying to
offer too many kinds of services," he says.

Blinq did attract a few customers. The company worked on a "custom-learning"
program for the sales force of pharmaceutical company G.D. Searle & Co., but
that project was cut short as Searle was absorbed into Pharmacia Corp. as a
result of the 1999 merger between Monsanto Co.  and Pharmacia & Upjohn.

For Helt, the Blinq experience was a reminder that even in the go-go Internet
era, executives must hew to a specific plan. "I think that I, like a lot of
people out there, fell in love with a lot of different ideas and things that
were possible," he says. "My focus as a leader was diffused because of that."
For the past two years Helt has taught a "customer insight" class at the McCombs
School of Business at the University of Texas.

Electrocast isn't definitely on the way out of business, but company officials
say they are in important merger talks with a California company.  They won't
name the company.

John Pepe, chief operating officer for Electrocast, says the company abandoned
its consumer-entertainment portal as that industry more or less collapsed from
lack of investor support and consumer interest. Instead, Electrocast focuses on
digital-media presentations for mostly corporate customers.

But even that business is shrinking, Pepe says, and Electrocast is looking to
the merger to help keep it afloat. If the merger doesn't go through, "given the
overall investor climate in tech startups . . . then there is a possibility that
Electrocast could shut down."

But before that, Pepe stresses, the company would trim costs and try to keep
going.

-- Robert Elder Jr.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Exterprise employees work in tight quarters at the Austin Technology
Incubator earlier this year before moving to its North Austin offices; Evity's
Clay Davis, left, and Rob Neville found success, but the one disappointment in
its acquisition by BMC Software has been the plummeting stock price; At left,
Blinq partners Geoff Helt, left, and Louis Kolssak in their Skokie, Ill., office
in March. Helt attributed Blinq's downfall to trying to do too many things at
once. Above, Electrocast's John Pepe, left, with Raymond Stewart in February, is
awaiting word of a merger to save the company.

                  Copyright 2000 The Austin American-Statesman
