
                               1 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 7, 2003, Saturday

Global warming study sets off storm
Nonprofits tied to energy industry question link between climate change and
fossil fuels

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1652 words


WASHINGTON -- Nonprofit organizations with ties to energy interests are
promoting a controversial climate study as proof that prevailing views of global
warming are wrong.

The scientists who authored the new study contend that the global warming of
recent decades is not without precedent during the past 1,000 years, as other
scientists have claimed. In fact, they say, the Earth was even warmer during
what is known as the "medieval warm period" between 900 and 1300 A.D.

The paper has touched off a worldwide storm of e-mail among climate scientists,
some of whom have proposed organizing a research boycott of the two journals
that published the study.

The links among authors of the study, the nonprofit groups and the energy
interests illustrate a three-way intersection of money, science and policy.
Energy interests underwrote the study and help finance the groups that are
promoting it.

The study also illustrates a strategy adopted by some energy companies in the
late 1980s to attack the credibility of climate science, said John Topping,
president of the Climate Institute.

"They saw early on that what they had to do was keep the science at issue," said
Topping, a former Republican congressional staffer who founded the institute in
1987.

By relying on the news media's inclination to include both sides of a story, the
industries were able to create the impression that scientists were deeply
divided over climate change, Topping said. "It was all very shrewdly done."

To measure long-term climate patterns, scientists rely on "proxy" indicators,
such as the content of air bubbles trapped centuries ago under ice packs in
Greenland and Antarctica, the chemical makeup of ancient ocean sediments, and
the relative widths of old tree rings. These natural records have been used to
portray a global climate that has been largely stable until the late 1980s, when
temperatures started rising sharply.

A millennium of these temperature records presents what has been called a
"hockey stick" graph, depicting centuries with little relative change, then a
sharp and sudden rise during the past two decades.

Most climate scientists think the rise results from the atmospheric buildup of
heat-trapping "greenhouse gases," especially carbon dioxide released by the
combustion of fossil fuels such as coal and petroleum. Industry-backed groups
claim the new study challenges the validity of this view by presenting evidence
of global warming at a time when fossil fuels were not being burned in
appreciable quantities.

The new study, "Reconstructing Climatic and Environmental Changes of the Past
1,000 Years: A Reappraisal," was published several weeks ago in a British
scientific journal, Energy and Environment. The authors contend in the 65-page
paper that their re-analysis of data from more than 200 previous climate studies
provides evidence of global temperature shifts that are more dramatic than the
current one, including during the medieval warm period.

The research was underwritten by the American Petroleum Institute, the trade
association of the world's largest oil companies. Two of the study's five
authors are scientists who have been linked to the coal industry and have
received support from the ExxonMobil Foundation.

Two others, who are affiliated with the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics, also have the title of "senior scientists" with a Washington-based
organization supported by conservative foundations and ExxonMobil Corp. The
organization, the George T. Marshall Institute, is headed by William O'Keefe, a
former executive of the American Petroleum Institute.

O'Keefe also was at one time the president of the Global Climate Coalition, a
now-defunct organization created by oil and coal interests to lobby against
American participation in climate treaties, such as the Kyoto Protocol.

"Statements made about the warming trend of the 20th century and the 1990s do
not withstand close scrutiny," O'Keefe said at a recent luncheon held in the
Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, D.C.

The purpose of the luncheon was for Willie Soon, a physicist and astronomer with
the Harvard-Smithsonian Center, to present a summary of the new research.

'Bump in the road?'

Promotion of the new study began with a news release issued by the public
affairs office of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center shortly after the paper was
published. Headlined "20th Century Climate Not So Hot," the release declared
that the study's authors had "determined" that the current warming trend is
neither the hottest nor the most dramatic in the past 1,000 years.

Major news organizations failed to publish the release. It was, however, picked
up by the Discovery Channel Online, which declared that the 20th century may
have been "just another bump in the climate road."

The article was immediately copied and distributed by the staff of the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee, chaired by Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla.,
an outspoken skeptic about climate change.

The committee also circulated a statement by the Competitive Enterprise
Institute declaring that "the hockey stick theory has effectively been
dismantled" and "the margin of error is so large that nearly any temperature
trend could be drawn to fit within it."

The principal target of the paper by Soon and his co-authors was Michael Mann of
the University of Virginia, whose landmark compilation of thousands of "proxy"
indicators led to the conclusion that the past two decades have been unusually
warm and to the first depiction of the hockey stick graph.

Mann said that the Soon study does not even attempt to reconstruct global
average temperatures, but simply highlights anecdotal evidence of isolated
warming trends.

In a statement issued jointly with environmental scientist Michael Oppenheimer
of Princeton University, Mann said when all of these indicators are compiled and
averaged, the medieval warm period fits within the long-range global trend. He
said this was done not only in his study, but also in nearly a dozen studies
that have followed it.

Soon said during a question period at the Senate luncheon that his research does
not provide such a comprehensive picture of the Earth's temperature record. He
questioned whether that is even possible, and said he did not see how Mann and
the others could "calibrate" the various proxy records for comparison.

"Then he needs to educate himself on several decades of very careful painstaking
research," Mann said.

Paying for research

The energy industry provides significant funding for groups that employ some of
the authors or promote the study.

Soon's four co-authors were Sallie Baliunas, also from the Harvard-Smithsonian
Center; Sherwood Idso and his son, Craig, both of Tempe, Ariz., who are the
former president and current president of an organization called the Center for
the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change; and David Legates, a climate
researcher at the University of Delaware.

The Idsos, who have previously been linked to Western coal interests, do not
reveal the sources of financial support for their center, which on its Web site
presents summaries of scientific studies purporting to raise questions about
prevailing climate change theories.

The center had a budget of nearly $400,000 in 2001, the last year for which
nonprofit statements to the Internal Revenue Service are available. It operates
from a post office box and from offices in the homes of Craig and Sherwood Idso
and a second son of Sherwood Idso, Keith Idso.

Identities of the four donors who provided the organization's $397,000
contributions in 2001 are blanked out of the IRS filing, and Sherwood Idso
declined to name them.

"We generally do not say anything about our funding," he said. "The feeling is
that what we produce there should be evaluated on its own merit, not where any
funding comes from."

IRS filings by the ExxonMobil Foundation show that it gave a grant of $15,000 to
the Arizona center in 2000.

These records and others show that the ExxonMobil Foundation and ExxonMobil
Corp. also have contributed $160,000 to the George T. Marshall Institute in the
past three years and more than $900,000 to the Competitive Enterprise Institute.

The institute was organized in the 1980s and is chaired by Robert Jastrow, a
retired NASA scientist who was an early and vocal supporter of former President
Reagan's "Star Wars" missile defense initiative.

Other members of the organization's board include O'Keefe; Baliunas;
techno-suspense novelist Thomas Clancy Jr.; newspaper columnist Charles
Krauthammer; Dr. Bernadine Healy, former director of the National Institutes of
Health; and Frederick Seitz of Rockefeller University, a former chairman of the
National Academy of Sciences.

O'Keefe declined to identify the Marshall Institute's funding sources but
acknowledged it received money from ExxonMobil and the Sarah Scaife Foundation,
headed by conservative Pittsburgh billionaire Richard Mellon Scaife. He
volunteered that it also receives money from the Bradley Foundation, a large
Milwaukee foundation known for its support of conservative causes.

Ross Gelbspan, a former Boston Globe reporter and editor whose 1997 book, "The
Heat Is On," details industry efforts to discredit climate change science, said
conclusions that greenhouse gases are causing the planet to heat up are the
result of "the largest and most rigorously peer-reviewed scientific
collaboration in history."

"The contradictory statements of a tiny handful of discredited scientists,
funded by big coal and big oil, represent a deliberate -- and extremely reckless
-- campaign of deception and disinformation," Gelbspan said.

jeffn@coxnews.com

ON THE WEB: The Climate Institute, www.climate.org; Center for the Study of
Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, www.co2science.org

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Willie Soon: Acknowledges that his study does not present a full
picture of heat records. // Michael Mann: Researcher whose work led to
prevailing views on warming.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               3 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 2, 2003, Thursday

Added findings point to warming
Greenhouse effect on butterflies seen in other animals, plants

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 518 words


A University of Texas researcher who made headlines two years ago with findings
that dwindling numbers of a tiny butterfly were the result of global warming has
more evidence that the controversial phenomenon is affecting the natural world.

This time, integrative biologist Camille Parmesan has teamed with an economist
to provide statistical evidence, to be published in today's issue of the British
science journal Nature, that global warming is causing chan- ges in plants as
well as animals.

She and economist Gary Yohe of Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn.,
analyzed studies of hundreds of species, some lasting an average of 45 years,
and found them breeding or blooming earlier each spring, or moving their
territorial ranges northward or to higher elevations in response to small
increases in average temperatures worldwide.

They found no contradictions even when they factored in habitat destruction or
other possibly underlying causes for the changes.

"Even then, we still came up with the same overall conclusion: that these
changes are linked to general global warming," Parmesan said.

A second study in the same issue of Nature, by Stanford University researchers,
reviewed studies of more than 1,400 plant and animal species and determined that
about 80 percent have undergone range or behavioral changes likely caused by
global warming.

In a 2000 paper published in the American journal Science, Parmesan and climate
experts at the National Climate Data Center in Asheville, N.C., coordinated
historical data on temperature and precipitation with her own studies of Edith's
checkerspot, a 1- to 2-inch-wide butterfly named for the checked orange, black
and yellow patterns on its rounded wings.

They found that extreme weather conditions caused localized extinctions of the
butterflies in California from the 1970s through the 1990s. Extremes of heat and
cold, drought and flood, are among the predicted results of global warming.

Earlier, Parmesan had documented northward shifts in the normal range of the
butterflies in Europe, as they left a warming Spain for cooler climes and
greener pastures in Sweden.

In some of the new research, she and Yohe analyzed studies of 99
temperature-sensitive North American and European species of birds, butterflies
and alpine herbs and found that their territorial range has shifted northward an
average of 9.65 miles per decade, or to higher altitudes by an average of 20
feet per decade.

Analysis of studies of 172 other species also showed that migratory birds,
amphibians and other animals are breeding earlier in the spring and that plants
are blooming earlier -- an average of two days per decade earlier than normal
over an average of 45 years.

Parmesan said the new research further suggests that as global warming
continues, nature preserves established without considering the impact of
climate change could be devastated.

"Climate change comes along, and suddenly the very placement of these will be
wrong," she said.

dstanley@statesman.com; 445-3629. This article contains material from wire
services.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Camille Parmesan // UT researcher Camille Parmesan, standing next to
rooftop greenhouses at the campus after her original global warming findings
came out, says her latest research reinforces those conclusions.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               4 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 31, 2003, Friday

Senate votes down emission caps
Bush administration says mandates would raise utility, gas costs

BYLINE: Eric Pianin, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 336 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Thursday rejected a proposal for mandatory caps on
"greenhouse gas" emissions from utilities and other industries in the first
congressional test of political sentiment toward global warming since President
Bush took office.

The 55-43 vote in the Republican-controlled Senate was anticipated in the face
of strong opposition from the White House, utilities and the auto industry. The
administration said it opposed the bill because it would drive up home utility
bills and gasoline prices.

"A majority of the Senate today told the American people that mandatory carbon
dioxide reductions are unacceptable, and rightly so," said Sen. James Inhofe,
R-Okla. "The science underlying this bill has been repudiated, the economic
costs are far too high and the environmental benefits are nonexistent."

However, proponents were heartened by support from Democrats and some
Republicans from major industrial and coal-producing states, where opposition to
the legislation generally runs high. Many predicted that the legislation
eventually will be adopted.

"It really means that the people in this country and many in Congress are
interested in our doing something about climate change," said Eileen Claussen,
president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who co-sponsored the bill with Sen. Joseph Lieberman,
D-Conn., said, "I want to assure my colleagues we will be back."

Their bill would hold greenhouse gas emissions by utilities, major industries
and refineries to 2000 levels but allow companies to buy pollution credits from
lesser industrial polluters to meet their targets. To draw more support, McCain
and Lieberman dropped more ambitious targets for emissions reductions for later
years and offered more generous exemptions for the auto industry, farmers and
others.

The Senate last acted on global warming in 1997 when it rejected key principles
underlying a climate change treaty that was being negotiated in Kyoto, Japan.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               5 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 5, 2003, Wednesday

Chief justice appeals to end elections
Partisan voting on judges hurts state, lawmakers are told

BYLINE: David Pasztor, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 498 words


He's back.

Supreme Court Chief Justice Tom Phillips on Tuesday renewed his call for state
lawmakers to change the way Texas elects its judges, throwing his support behind
legislation under which judges would be appointed by the governor and then face
nonpartisan retention elections.

Phillips, perhaps the only elected official whose speeches include footnotes and
appendices, delivered his State of the Judiciary address to a joint session of
the Legislature.

He also asked lawmakers to streamline the state's appeals courts and redraw
local court districts to balance the workload among judges.

A longtime advocate of ending partisan judicial elections, the 15-year
Republican incumbent argued that Texas' reputation and business climate have
been sullied by the unseemly reputation of its court system.

"Our partisan, high-dollar judicial selection system has diminished public
confidence in our courts, has damaged our reputation throughout the country and
across the world, and has discouraged able lawyers from offering themselves for
judicial service," Phillips told state officials.

He urged legislators to pass bills allowing voters to consider a constitutional
amendment eliminating an election system that dates to 1850.

Back then, Phillips said, "the judicial ballot was short; citizens voted in one
or perhaps two races.

Candidates campaigned through stump speeches and handbills, with a few kegs of
whiskey for thirsty voters being their principal expense."

Voters now face ballots loaded with judicial candidates they do not know, and
elections have become messy affairs that require candidates to solicit hefty
campaign donations. Races often turn on party label, and questions of competence
are lost in the shuffle.

A bipartisan coalition of lawmakers has come out in favor of two proposals --
Senate Joint Resolution 33 and House Joint Resolution 63 -- that would scrap the
existing system.

Judges would first be appointed by the governor and approved by the Senate.

At the end of their terms, they would appear on the ballot without party label,
and voters would be asked to decide whether they should be retained or replaced.

If a judge is not retained, the governor would appoint a new one.

The changes require a constitutional amendment.

Similar legislation passed the Senate last session but died in the House. Rep.
Elizabeth Ames Jones, R-San Antonio, said she thinks her colleagues might be
open to change this year.

Phillips said he hopes his message might finally be taking root.

The bills "are in major play," he said after his speech.

In light of looming budget cuts, Phillips also asked lawmakers to approve
changes in the structure of state appeals courts to increase efficiency. Under
his plan, the 3rd Court of Appeals, which includes Travis County, would lose one
justice, leaving five.

Other courts' sizes and jurisdictions would change to reduce costs, Phillips
said.

dpasztor@statesman.com; 445-3631

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Texas Supreme Court Chief Justice Tom Phillips delivers his State of
the Judiciary message to the Legislature on Tuesday.  Gov. Rick Perry, left, and
House Speaker Tom Craddick, R-Midland, heard the Republican incumbent argue that
the court system sullies Texas' reputation and business climate.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               6 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 23, 2003, Wednesday

Thawing tundra blocks oil exploration
Energy Department offers grant to help companies in Alaska beat warming issue

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 433 words


WASHINGTON -- Global warming, which most climate experts blame mainly on
large-scale burning of oil and other fossil fuels, may be interfering with
efforts in Alaska to discover yet more oil.

The U.S. Department of Energy plans to help oil companies and Alaska officials
find a way around the problem.

A state of Alaska rule says heavy exploration equipment can be used on fragile
tundra only when the ground is frozen to 12 inches deep and covered by at least
6 inches of snow.

However, because winters in the Arctic are becoming shorter, the number of days
the tundra meets those conditions has shrunk from more than 200 in 1970 to only
103 last year, a state document notes.

The Energy Department is providing a $270,000 grant to help determine whether
there are ways the equipment can be used even when the tundra is not protected
by snow.

In a June 3 news release, the Energy Department did not refer to global warming.
Instead, it quoted Mike Smith, the assistant energy secretary for fossil energy,
as saying the grant will be combined with $70,000 put up by oil companies to
"refine our understanding of the tundra's resistance to disturbances."

But according to the state's description of the research, the shorter period for
frozen tundra "appears consistent with findings of general warming in the Alaska
Arctic associated with global climate change."

"It is unlikely that the oil industry can implement successful exploration and
development plans with a winter work season consistently less than 120 days,"
the Alaska project description says. "Therefore, it is imperative that the
Alaska Department of Natural Resources develop a new set of criteria that will
simultaneously increase the number of days available to companies to conduct
exploration and ice road construction in winter while providing equal or greater
environmental protection of the tundra."

Rep. Ed Markey, D-Mass., a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and
a vocal opponent of development and exploration of the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge, said that "for years, proponents of drilling in the Arctic refuge have
unpersuasively argued that by doing all their development during the winter
season on ice roads, the impact on the tundra would be negligible."

"Now they admit that they can't afford to drill unless they are allowed to
trample the tundra in the nonwinter season," he said. "The supreme irony is that
the winter season is getting shorter because of a pronounced warming of the
climate brought on, in part, by the burning of oil."

jeffn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               7 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 16, 2003, Sunday

On to New Hampshire to build a land of the free
Austin's Free Staters, with 5,000 others, vow to move north to foster
libertarianism

BYLINE: Mark Lisheron, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2180 words


Alan Weiss, Michael Badnarik and Rick McGinnis want to experience their ideal of
liberty in their lifetimes.

To secure their freedom, they have pledged to move from Austin to New Hampshire
along with men and women from all over the country.

Once there, these people, members of the Free State Project, intend to set about
creating a place to prosper without government interfering in how citizens live.
Now, if they can only put up with the cold.

The idea for the Free State Project is not unlike that which led to the Mormon
migration to Utah in the 19th century. After years of trying to effect political
change in their communities, Free Staters believe that their one last hope is to
gather in a state where their like-minded numbers would make a difference.

but it hasn't happened yet. sentence is too broad -- need to focus it on goals.
--ts After years of trying and failing to eaffect political change in their
communities, Free Staters believe that their one last hope is to gather in a
state where their like-minded numbers would make a difference.

f-t f-z In little over a year 5,055 people nationwide, 274 of them from Texas,
have joined the Free State Project. Organizers say the project can succeed if
20,000 people pledge to move to New Hampshire. Far from being political kooks,
as their intellectual predecessors have sometimes been portrayed, organizers say
the core of the movement is middle class, educated, high-tech savvy and
entrepreneurial.

Whether the Free State Project will fail if the goal isn't reached is a matter
of debate among members. Political experts doubt that the movement will succeed
in New Hampshire, no matter how audacious and intriguing the idea or how many
people ultimately immigrate.

But at a time when citizens debate the USA Patriot Act and the erosion of civil
liberties, Free Staters believe that something dramatic must be tried.

'Fighting for an idea'

"This is very much like the Alamo," Badnarik said over a plate of crepes at a
local IHOP recently. "We're fighting for an idea. The question is not whether or
not this is worth it. I feel the government is so out of control that this
drastic step is necessary. I'm afraid the next step would be some sort of
revolution, and I don't want that."

Badnarik is one of five people running for the Libertarian Party's nomination
for president of the United States. He has managed to visit 12 states on $5,000,
sleeping on couches and otherwise living on the cheap.

His success campaigning at Libertarian conventions in 16 key states from January
through April will determine whether he carries his party's presidential banner.
The Free State Project will have to wait at least a year.

The Free State Project is a libertarian idea. Libertarian philosophy is simple
in design and, for most Americans, impossible in execution.

Libertarians derive their rights and their responsibilities from the
Constitution. The individual is expected to shoulder the biggest responsibility,
not to interfere with the rights of other individuals.

Government's responsibility is to protect this covenant, not to protect
individuals from themselves, a libertarian would say. A libertarian supports
some form of national defense, for example, but does not support
government-sponsored welfare or school programs.

Badnarik, 49, has twice been a Libertarian candidate for state representative,
collecting nearly 17 percent of the vote in Texas' District 47 in 2000. Weiss,
44, is a Libertarian serving on the board of Municipal Utility District 41 in
Austin. McGinnis, 49, is the vice-chairman of the Travis County Libertarian
Party.

But though roughly half of the members of the Free State Project describe
themselves as Libertarians, according to national spokesman Elizabeth McKinstry
of Ann Arbor, Mich., the other half is made up of independents, conservatives
and liberals, she says.

Internet genesis

Libertarianism, as a political movement, stalled long ago. After coming out of
nowhere at its inception in 1972, Libertarian Party candidate Ed Clark got more
than 900,000 votes, or 1 percent of the total, in the 1980 election that Ronald
Reagan won. No Libertarian has amassed as many as 500,000 votes in any
presidential election since.

Jason Sorens, a 26-year-old political science major at Yale University and a
Libertarian Party member, critiqued the flagging fortunes of the party in an
essay he submitted as part of his candidacy for a Ph.D. In July 2001, Sorens
posted the essay on the Internet. It included a detailed call to all
libertarian-minded people to create a free state.

McKinstry, who has a degree in philosophy and works in marketing for an
environmental group, says she read the essay and immediately began discussing a
move with her husband. Though he is not as libertarian as she, McKinstry's
husband says, he supports a move. McKinstry is Free State Project member No. 5.

"I read the essay and thought, 'Hell, yes, this is absolutely what we ought to
do,' " she said. "I told my husband that if this works, it is something I can't
not be part of. This has been the most exciting two years of my life."

As membership grew, Free State Project organizers created a list of 10 states as
a possible destination: Alaska, Delaware, Idaho, Maine, Montana, North and South
Dakota, Vermont, Wyoming and New Hampshire.

Some Free State members complained of the remoteness of some states. Many
complained about the climates. Organizers stuck with the list because the low
populations of these states would make it possible for 20,000 Libertarian
thinkers to make their biggest impact.

When the vote was announced Oct. 1, New Hampshire had received the most
first-place votes, 749. North and South Dakota received the fewest, a combined
56.

'Live Free or Die'

"We'd love to have you," Craig Benson, the Republican governor of New Hampshire,
told Free Staters at a Libertarian Party convention in Manchester in early
November.

In an e-mail interview, Benson said that though Republicans are loath to
consider some of the Free State platform -- repealing gun laws and legalizing
drugs and gambling -- New Hampshire would benefit from new involvement in the
political process.

"They indicated to me that they were small-business owners who believe in
limited self-governance. These are ideals we share, and I welcome them as
law-abiding citizens."

Benson's enthusiasm is one reason Free Staters are excited about New Hampshire.
The state motto is "Live Free or Die." The state levies no income tax or sales
tax. New Hampshire's gun laws, a threshold issue for Constitutionalists, are
fewer and more lenient than elsewhere. Seat-belt laws and motorcycle-helmet laws
do not exist.

Perhaps most important to a group seeking political change, New Hampshire might
have the most localized government in the union. The state's 1.2 million people
are represented by myriad boards of selectmen and city councils.

Voters elect 400 state representatives to the House, the largest legislative
body in the country next to the U.S. House of Representatives. The average is
one representative for every 3,500 or so voters. The stipend of $200 per
legislative session curbs professional politicians.

John Babiarz, chairman of the Libertarian Party of New Hampshire, cannot believe
the state's good fortune. "We're ecstatic. New Hampshire is a
libertarian-leaning state. A lot of people here welcome this as a way to
rejuvenate state politics," he said.

Calling Davy Crockett

What surprised Alan Weiss when he visited New Hampshire early this month was the
economy's vigor and diversity, particularly in the largest cities, Manchester
(population 107,006), Nashua (86,605) and the state capital, Concord (40,687).

Weiss runs two small software and hardware testing and analysis companies in
Austin. One of his companies certified the vote for the selection of the Free
State at no charge.

Weiss says he came to his political philosophy at 15. He fell in with
free-market economic theorists at the University of California at Northridge.
After a sour experience with Clark's 1980 campaign, Weiss stayed away from party
politics. The Free State Project was different, a movement ready to back its
ideas with action.

"This is the grand experiment of our time for a family who believes in liberty,"
he said. "This is the quintessential American experience. David Crockett said,
'You can go to hell; I'm going to Texas.' Well, I'm going to New Hampshire."

This is no headlong rush. Weiss' wife, Jane, has her own career, and though she
has kept an open mind, she has not yet visited New Hampshire. He'd like his
daughter, Robyn, to finish her senior year in high school here this year. Jane's
83-year-old mother-in-law is in a nursing home here.

Weiss says he intends to fly his family to New Hampshire in the teeth of winter
before asking them to help him fulfill his commitment. The Free State Project is
a pledge, not a binding contract, he says.

"I'm not moving this year," Weiss said. "Austin is my home. I love Texas. I am a
Texan. But it is changing into a big government state. It isn't the state I
moved to 12 years ago."

Grass roots

Badnarik shares the same concerns about the political shift in Texas but says he
would be leaving for New Hampshire after his campaign anyway.

He says he fled the "socialist state of California" for Austin in 1997. A
chemist by education and a former nuclear systems analyst, Badnarik lost his Web
development training job two years ago. He used the time to create an all-day
course on the Constitution that he teaches small groups for a fee.

Regardless of the outcome of the presidential election in 2004, Badnarik, who is
single, intends to resume teaching the Constitution in New Hampshire.

McGinnis wants to use his Travis County Libertarian Party experience to help
Free Staters get elected in New Hampshire.

McGinnis, who is also single, grew up in Dallas and made himself comfortable in
real estate in California. He thoroughly enjoys Austin and will miss it, he
says. But he will not be deterred, even if the Free State Project doesn't get
20,000 people to move.

"The reality is that this is a grass-roots movement; that's important to
remember," McGinnis said, sipping tea at Threadgill's downtown. "If those of us
who can easily do it don't move to New Hampshire, then what excuse is there?"

New Hampshire political leaders have thought of several excuses. Democrats have
complained that libertarians will further frustrate efforts to raise taxes for
schools. Republicans are worried about the libertarians' free-wheeling attitude
on legislating morality.

But though the Free State Project sees New Hampshire as libertarian leaning,
leaning does not necessarily promise libertarian voting. Although four
Libertarians have served in the New Hampshire House at one time or another, none
currently serves. And of the thousands of elected and appointed positions in the
state, 29 of them are held by Libertarians.

New Hampshire residents have been decidedly restrained for all the attention the
Free State Project has received, according to Richard Winters, a professor who
has taught New Hampshire government since 1969 at Dartmouth College in Hanover.

Few people are aware of the Free State Project. And those who know of it are not
convinced that 20,000 people are coming, Winters says. And even if the goal is
reached, Winters says, Free Staters will be thwarted by a political system that
appears from a great distance to offer an advantage.

"Precisely because elected officials represent so few people, government is
controlled by two very strong parties," Winters said. "Voters are very
well-informed on political issues but also the issues that pertain to their
communities. These people coming in from the outside are going to be last in
line on the ballot."

Great responsibility

Free State Project founders do not agree on whether the movement can maintain
the momentum to reach the 20,000-pledge goal. McKinstry is particularly worried
about the next 5,000, now that the novelty of the idea has played out.

Without the necessary numbers, McKinstry says, she is afraid that nothing will
change in New Hampshire. Worst of all, the Free State Project will have sent a
message that nothing will change anywhere. If that happens, McKinstry says, she
won't be going to New Hampshire.

"In making these grand statements, I think we bear a terrible responsibility,
not only to our membership but to the ideals of libertarianism to make this
work," McKinstry said. "If we fail, I think it will doom the Libertarian
movement. I find the thought of it so sad and so frightening."

Badnarik couldn't disagree more. The success of the Free State Project will not
rest with numbers of people, he says, but in the conviction of those who go to
New Hampshire.

"There are already people moving there," he said. "As we continue to improve
life and liberty in New Hampshire, other people will come."

mlisheron@statesman.com; 445-3663

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alan Weiss, a Free State member, totes a .45-caliber pistol and a copy
of the Declaration of Independence. // Michael Badnarik hopes to be the
Libertarian Party candidate in next year's presidential election. 'We're
fighting for an idea,' he said. 'The question is not whether or not this is
worth it.' // Rick McGinnis is vice-chairman of the Travis County Libertarian
Party. He says he will miss Austin but will not be deterred.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               8 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 18, 2003, Friday

Cab co-op given yellow light on franchise plan

BYLINE: Jonathan Osborne, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 650 words


With their dreams neither dashed nor realized, a group of disgruntled Austin
cabbies hoping to start their own company left City Hall on Thursday with a
small victory.

The City Council did not award the founders of the startup Lone Star Cab Co.
what would be the first taxi franchise granted in 20 years, as they had wanted.

But the council didn't turn down the group's application and request for 100 cab
permits either -- something that was likely to happen, considering city staff
were against the idea and the council placed what amounts to a moratorium on the
issuing of cab permits last month.

Instead, at the behest of Council Member Danny Thomas, Lone Star Cab was given
90 days to work with the staff to try to come up with changes to the city's taxi
regulations that would allow the new company to enter the market.

"I would like to see us get more information" before making a decision, said
Council Member Daryl Slusher, who seconded Thomas' motion. "They're definitely
trying to improve the working conditions of cab drivers, and I'm very much in
support of that.

"It's very difficult to make a living as a cab driver," said Slusher, who should
know because he used to drive one. "I think it's also very difficult to run a
cab company."

Lone Star Cab's lawyer, Doug Young, said that in the current regulatory climate
in Austin, starting a new cab company was "almost impossible."

He said his clients had timed the rollout of the business venture, which would
be set up as a co-operative, to coincide with the annual doling out of permits,
based on the population change.

Under the old rules, the city awarded one permit for every 1,200 residents.

But last month, after fielding complaints from cabbies who said the economy and
a surplus of cabs on the streets were threatening their livelihood, the council
adopted a formula that bases the number of permits issued on the annual
population change and the number of taxicab departures from Austin-Bergstrom
International Airport.

Because the city's population shrank in the past year by 1,100 people, and
because cab departures from the airport are down significantly, the changes were
equivalent to a moratorium.

"The very idea of having 100 extra taxis on the street right now . . . makes me
sick to my stomach. It is really bad out there," said Hanna Riddering, who
drives for American Yellow Checker Cab Co..

Riddering said she was intrigued by the concept of a co-operative cab company,
and that one day she would like to see "these guys give it a try."

"But this is simply not the time" she said.

The only three franchises operating in the city -- Roy's Taxi, Austin Cab Co.
and American Yellow Checker -- all publicly opposed Lone Star Cab's application,
citing the drivers' claims that the market is saturated.

"The cab drivers are complaining that they're not making enough money as it is,"
said Kenneth Grant, operations manager for Austin Cab.

"With another 100 permits, what would that do?" added Bertha Means, who with her
family owns the company.

But Lone Star Cab's founders counter that despite the sagging economy, the cab
companies have not lowered what they charge people to drive for them, which run
from $10,000 to $27,000 a year, depending on whether the driver is leasing the
cab or owns it.

"I agree it is hard. It is bad," said Efrem Borga, one of Lone Star Cab's
founding officers. "But the people who are trying to form this co-op are the
ones suffering. The companies are not suffering."

Lone Star Cab President Solomon Kassa blames the city for flooding the market
and issuing permits last year -- and the other cab companies for accepting them
-- if both parties knew the city's drivers were hurting.

He said, "Last year, when the department issued them (24) additional permits,
they should have said, 'No.' "

josborne@statesman.com; 445-3621

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Solomon Kassa: Lone Star Cab co-founder blames city for flooded market.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               9 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 18, 2003, Friday

Cab co-op given yellow light on franchise plan

BYLINE: Jonathan Osborne, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 650 words


With their dreams neither dashed nor realized, a group of disgruntled Austin
cabbies hoping to start their own company left City Hall on Thursday with a
small victory.

The City Council did not award the founders of the startup Lone Star Cab Co.
what would be the first taxi franchise granted in 20 years, as they had wanted.

But the council didn't turn down the group's application and request for 100 cab
permits either -- something that was likely to happen, considering city staff
were against the idea and the council placed what amounts to a moratorium on the
issuing of cab permits last month.

Instead, at the behest of Council Member Danny Thomas, Lone Star Cab was given
90 days to work with the staff to try to come up with changes to the city's taxi
regulations that would allow the new company to enter the market.

"I would like to see us get more information" before making a decision, said
Council Member Daryl Slusher, who seconded Thomas' motion. "They're definitely
trying to improve the working conditions of cab drivers, and I'm very much in
support of that.

"It's very difficult to make a living as a cab driver," said Slusher, who should
know because he used to drive one. "I think it's also very difficult to run a
cab company."

Lone Star Cab's lawyer, Doug Young, said that in the current regulatory climate
in Austin, starting a new cab company was "almost impossible."

He said his clients had timed the rollout of the business venture, which would
be set up as a co-operative, to coincide with the annual doling out of permits,
based on the population change.

Under the old rules, the city awarded one permit for every 1,200 residents.

But last month, after fielding complaints from cabbies who said the economy and
a surplus of cabs on the streets were threatening their livelihood, the council
adopted a formula that bases the number of permits issued on the annual
population change and the number of taxicab departures from Austin-Bergstrom
International Airport.

Because the city's population shrank in the past year by 1,100 people, and
because cab departures from the airport are down significantly, the changes were
equivalent to a moratorium.

"The very idea of having 100 extra taxis on the street right now . . . makes me
sick to my stomach. It is really bad out there," said Hanna Riddering, who
drives for American Yellow Checker Cab Co..

Riddering said she was intrigued by the concept of a co-operative cab company,
and that one day she would like to see "these guys give it a try."

"But this is simply not the time" she said.

The only three franchises operating in the city -- Roy's Taxi, Austin Cab Co.
and American Yellow Checker -- all publicly opposed Lone Star Cab's application,
citing the drivers' claims that the market is saturated.

"The cab drivers are complaining that they're not making enough money as it is,"
said Kenneth Grant, operations manager for Austin Cab.

"With another 100 permits, what would that do?" added Bertha Means, who with her
family owns the company.

But Lone Star Cab's founders counter that despite the sagging economy, the cab
companies have not lowered what they charge people to drive for them, which run
from $10,000 to $27,000 a year, depending on whether the driver is leasing the
cab or owns it.

"I agree it is hard. It is bad," said Efrem Borga, one of Lone Star Cab's
founding officers. "But the people who are trying to form this co-op are the
ones suffering. The companies are not suffering."

Lone Star Cab President Solomon Kassa blames the city for flooding the market
and issuing permits last year -- and the other cab companies for accepting them
-- if both parties knew the city's drivers were hurting.

He said, "Last year, when the department issued them (24) additional permits,
they should have said, 'No.' "

josborne@statesman.com; 445-3621

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Solomon Kassa: Lone Star Cab co-founder blames city for flooded market.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               11 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 28, 2003, Friday

Higher Education

BYLINE: Compiled by Anita Powell, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 383 words


HUSTON-TILLOTSON COLLEGE

Fun run scheduled for April 5

The fifth annual Huston-Tillotson College 5K Fun Run and Walk will begin at 8
a.m. April 5.

The run starts on campus, 900 Chicon St. Runners will wind their way through
East Austin past a mixture of historic landmarks and neighborhoods. A dinner
will be served at 6 p.m. April 4 in the Davage-Durden Student Union to all paid
entrants. Entry fees support the college's athletic scholarship fund.
Pre-registration is $15.

For information, call 505-3047.

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS

2 students are Truman scholars

The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation has announced the 76 winners of this
year's scholarships, including two students from the University of Texas: junior
Heidi Boutros and senior Corinna Kester.

Boutros wrote the first academic code of conduct at the university, organized UT
Amnesty International's first lecture series and participated in volunteer
projects to stop violence against women. Kester interned for Ozone Action, a
nonprofit group focused on ending global warming, and started Environmental
Outreach to educate students about the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.

This year's scholars were selected from among 635 candidates nominated by 305
colleges and universities. Each scholarship provides $3,000 to $30,000 for the
senior year and $27,000 annually for graduate study. Recipients must be U.S.
citizens, have outstanding leadership potential and communication skills, be in
the top 25 percent of their class, and be committed to careers in government or
the nonprofit sector.

Exhibits to focus on Guatemala

Photographer Daniel Hernandez-Salazar will visit campus Monday to discuss and
exhibit the images of war from his experiences in post-civil war Guatemala.

The week of events with Hernandez-Salazar will begin with Monday's screening of
"Haunted Land," a 2001 documentary about the trip he and Guatemalan refugee
Mateo Pablo made to the remains of a Mayan village where a massacre occurred.
The free screening is at 6 p.m. at the Hogg Auditorium.

Other events include a colloquium Wednesday, and a 6:30 p.m. opening of the
exhibit "The Path of an Angel" at La Pea Gallery, 227 Congress Ave.

For information, call 471-8433.

-- Compiled by Anita Powell

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               13 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 2, 2003, Friday

Business Digest

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 543 words


Jobless claims register 2nd-highest level of year

WASHINGTON -- New claims for jobless benefits clocked in at the second-highest
level of the year and manufacturing shrank, fresh signs that the postwar economy
is still struggling.

The stagnant job market and the battered manufacturing sector are sore spots for
the fragile recovery.

Although new claims for unemployment insurance dropped by a seasonally adjusted
13,000 for the work week that ended April 26, the level of claims -- 448,000 --
was still the second-highest this year, the Labor Department reported Thursday.

For 11 straight weeks, jobless claims have been above the 400,000 mark, a level
indicative of a weak labor climate.

Manufacturing, meanwhile, fell for the second straight month. The Institute for
Supply Management's manufacturing index fell to 45.4 last month, slipping from
46.2 in March. A reading below 50 means manufacturing activity is contracting.

SOFTWARE

Macromedia shares rise

32% after profit report

NEW YORK -- Shares of Macromedia Inc. jumped 32 percent to $18.81 after the
software company reported a fourth-quarter profit and predicted revenue would
grow much more than analysts had expected.

The San Francisco company, which makes software used to design Web sites,
graphics and multimedia has struggled for much of the past two years with slack
demand for its products amid the dot-com bust and a weak online advertising
market.

Late Wednesday, Macromedia executives surprised investors and analysts by
predicting revenue would rise between 10 percent and 20 percent in the current
fiscal year, which began April 1. Although business conditions remain
"sluggish," chief executive Rob Burgess said the introduction of new products
and upgrades to existing products would drive the growth.

GROCERIES

Safeway reaps a profit

following a loss last year

PLEASANTON, Calif. -- Grocery store chain Safeway Inc. said Thursday that it
swung to a profit in its latest quarter.

The Pleasanton, Calif., company, which owns the Randalls Food Market chain, had
net income of $162.6 million, or 36 cents a share, for its fiscal first quarter
that ended March 22, compared with a net loss of $367.9 million, or 74 cents a
share, a year earlier. The company reported earnings from continuing operations
of 44 cents a share, in line with the mean Wall Street expectations.

In the latest quarter, Safeway booked a loss of $33.6 million, or 8 cents a
share, for discontinued operations under its plan to sell the Dominick's chain
and exit the Chicago grocery store market.

FAST FOOD

KFC sets new standards

for treatment of birds

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- KFC, the world's largest chicken restaurant chain, announced
new standards Thursday meant to guarantee humane treatment for its birds from
hatchery to slaughterhouse.

The fast-food company also asked the government to review a possible change in
how processors slaughter its birds. KFC wants to know whether gassing the birds
with blasts of carbon dioxide would be safe for consumers and slaughterhouse
workers. Its suppliers now stun the birds, then slit their throats.

KFC and its parent, Yum Brands Inc., said the changes were not spurred by animal
rights protesters.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               16 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 17, 2003, Thursday

Cab co-op seeking to hit streets of Austin//Disgruntled drivers hope City
Council will approve new taxi franchise

BYLINE: Jonathan Osborne, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1204 words


This town may ooze capitalism with its high-tech entrepreneurs, business
risk-takers and real estate speculators.

But when it comes to taxicabs, Austin is no free market.

A group of disgruntled cabbies, who are tired of paying the city's three taxi
franchises what they say are exorbitant rates to drive, want to change that.

Representatives of the startup Lone Star Cab Co. will ask the City Council today
for permission to roll out what would be the first taxi franchise to enter the
Austin market in 20 years.

And unlike the three existing cab franchises, Lone Star would operate in a co-op
fashion, where the drivers would have a stake in the company and a share of the
profits. Several cab companies in Dallas operate in that way.

However, considering that the City Council placed what amounts to a moratorium
on taxicab permits last month -- and that the city staff is against granting
another franchise -- it's unlikely that any of Lone Star's cabs will ever see
the streets.

"It's not fair," Lone Star's president and co-founder, Solomon Kassa, said of
the taxicab business climate in the city. "It's monopolized by three companies."

In a sense, he's right: Roy's Taxi, American Yellow Checker Cab Co. and Austin
Cab Co. have operated without competition since 1995.

A decade earlier, there were six companies. Two of those went out of business,
and two others consolidated to form American Yellow Checker, which today is the
largest of the three.

Over the past eight years, the city has granted those remaining operators 132
additional cab permits, bringing the total number of cabs in the city to 565,
not including the 33 taxis with wheelchair access, a service the city requires
of the owners.

Morris Poe, who oversees the city's transportation regulation office, said the
franchise system creates stability, both for the city and the companies, who can
then guarantee that there are cabs to serve out-of-towners and residents.

"If you use the franchise method, then you get a contractor, basically, that's
willing to provide the service," Poe said. "Usually it's large companies, so
they have financial backing to support the operation. If you have an
open-entry-type market, where instead of three or five companies you've got 600
companies out there, there's no guarantee that those companies can continue to
operate in a situation like we have now with the economy."

Drivers in Austin already have complained that because of the current downturn,
there are too many cabs on the street and not enough customers, making it
difficult to pay the bills.

In June, the City Council responded by abandoning the old way of issuing taxicab
permits, which allowed one for every 1,200 residents. They replaced it with a
new formula -- one similar to one used in Houston and other cities -- which
bases the number of permits on the annual population change and the number of
taxicab departures from Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, two trends the
city tracks closely.

Considering the city's population shrank in the past year by 1,100 people and
cab departures from the airport were down 37 percent between 2000 and 2002, that
amounts to a moratorium for the time being.

Kassa, who drove for Austin Cab until May, argues that it's not just the
sluggish economy hurting business.  He said it's also the greed of the cab
companies, who pay only $400 annually for a permit and then charge cabbies,
depending on whether the driver owns the cab between $10,000 and $27,000 a year.

The cab companies have other expenses beside the permits, including insurance, a
dispatch office and upkeep of the cabs.

And while the fares are regulated by the city, the fees charged to the cab
drivers are not.

"We are paying too much. We can't make a living," said Kassa, who says his
contract was canceled in May after Austin Cab learned of his Lone Star plans.
"We have a few drivers who live in a car. They have to eat."

Carlos Velasquez, who owns Roy's Taxi with his brothers, said that the rates are
reasonable and that it takes a lot more to run a cab company than "just getting
behind the wheel and driving."

"Everybody wants to make money; everybody wants to get a share of the
marketplace," Velasquez said. "I can understand someone trying to start a
business. But if they only knew how hard it was to start this business. It's 24
hours, seven days a week. It's hard. We never close."

Calls to representatives of Austin Cab and American Yellow Checker were not
returned this week.

Kassa's plan calls for a company that is owned 100 percent by the drivers. He
said that at least 35 drivers now working for other companies have already
signed on with Lone Star, which was incorporated in January, and that another 35
have expressed serious interest.

According to the franchise application with the city, the company had raised
$119,000 in seed money as of December 2002. Kassa said this week that Lone Star
now has $130,000 in the bank and that they'd like to get 100 permits to get
started.

He argues that the competition, as well as pride in ownership, will lead to
better customer service, a successful company and better income for the drivers.

In Dallas, six companies operate that way with varying success, said Don
Bearden, who oversees taxi regulation there.

"A bunch of them kind of got fed up and they went together," he said. "They
basically own their own cars and they own part of the company."

But competition isn't always good, Bearden said.

For years, anyone who qualified could start a cab company in Dallas and as a
result, the city has 14 companies and 2,209 cabs, or one cab for every 438
residents.

As in Austin, drivers began complaining that the market was flooded, the wait to
pick up a fare at the airport had climbed to four hours and it was becoming
nearly impossible to make a living.

As a result, the Dallas City Council placed a moratorium on new permits in
February.

"For a lot of years, we just kind of had an open market," Bearden said. "But
we're currently looking at changing that.

"Both markets have drawbacks," he said. "In a closed market, companies can
charge basically whatever they want. Here the market's open, so the prices are
down. Of course the drivers aren't making any money; there's too many cabs. I
don't know which is best."

Velasquez has his opinion.

"If it was a deregulated market, people probably wouldn't get a cab and drivers
would have a bad attitude toward the customer," he said. "When it's a
deregulated market, nobody cares. Everybody can get in."

That debate aside, Velasquez said, there just isn't room for another hundred
cabs on Austin's roads.

"The more cabs on the street, the less money the present drivers are going to be
making," he said. "That's just the bottom line."

The council, however, has a third option besides denying Lone Star the franchise
and giving the company the nod and awarding it 100 new taxi permits.

"Of course, the council could redistribute those (existing 565) permits any way
they want to," said Poe, the city's taxi regulator. But, he quickly added, "how
would you fairly go about doing that?"

josborne@statesman.com; 445-3621

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lone Star Cab Co. co-founder Solomon Kassa, who says the city's
existing cab companies charge exorbitant fees, is lobbying the city for a fourth
cab franchise and 100 taxi permits.  His chances of success, however, are slim.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               19 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 8, 2003, Wednesday

Austin schools tap green power
District hopes moveto wind, sun power will save money and the environment

BYLINE: Kevin Carmody, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 462 words


The Austin Independent School District on Tuesday signed an agreement with
Austin Energy to become the city's biggest buyer of green power, trying to save
money and cut air pollution.

The agreement means the district's 108 campuses will get 30 percent of their
electricity from wind, sun or other renewable sources through 2011. That's
enough to power 3,750 homes each year and almost twice the amount of renewable
power purchased by what had been the city utility's largest customer in its
GreenChoice program, Advanced Micro Devices Inc.

Superintendent Pat Forgione said the decision made sense because it will reduce
students' exposure to air pollution from conventional power plants and because
it is likely to save taxpayer money over time.

During the 2000-01 school year, a sharp jump in natural gas prices doubled the
district's electric bill, at a cost of $1.5 million, Forgione said. Electric
prices normally fluctuate with fuel costs, but the price of the renewable power
it will buy through GreenChoice is fixed through 2011.

The GreenChoice price remains slightly higher than conventional power -- about
$25,000 a year more for the district -- but natural gas prices and the cost of
electricity produced with fossil fuels are expected to continue rising, Forgione
said.

"For a school district living on a fixed income . . . GreenChoice is a very wise
investment for Austin schools," he said. "If gas prices go up at all, we'll
break even."

A recent report issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas concluded, "Higher
natural gas prices seem likely to be sustained though the next several years
unless we have mild weather."

Austin Energy officials said they and the federal energy experts they spoke to
know of no other school district in the country that has made a larger
commitment to buy green power.

City officials said that the additional green power sales will result in a
reduced need to run conventional power plants, thereby cutting emissions of
pollutants including carbon dioxide, which is linked to global climate change,
by millions of pounds annually.

"That's equivalent to taking 4,500 cars off the road or planting 8,000 trees,"
Mayor Will Wynn said. "My thanks to the Austin schools for taking a leadership
role in Austin's effort to become the Clean Energy Capital of the World."

The city utility sells more renewable power than any other American city. The
school district's yearly purchase would be about 18 percent of the green power
sold last year to 262 businesses and nearly 6,800 homes. The City Council last
month authorized the utility to sign contacts with wind power companies to
nearly double its green power portfolio over the next 10 to 20 years.

kcarmody@statesman.com; 912-2569

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               21 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

Letters

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1056 words


Of church and state

I enjoyed the article reporting the agenda of the Catholic lobbyists (Feb. 3
article, "For some religious groups, obligation includes lobbying"). Thanks for
the good reporting. The one stinker of a comment was by Keith Berka, an atheist,
who said "there is little separation of church and state."

The First Amendment guarantees that Congress won't make any laws restricting
religion, press or speech. Nowhere in the Constitution does "separation of
church and state" exist. The bottom line is that there are a lot of people who
believe in God and are spiritual. We have every right to speak our minds to
politicians, be in politics and to not be censored.

It is amazing that people who do not even believe God get offended when people
who do believe in him take a stand.

ALANDA LEDBETTER

Round Rock

David L. Reeve

No common sense

What is going on with the Austin City Council? Austin is $58 million in the
hole, yet the council seems bent on addressing every issue but that.

City Manager Toby Futrell talks about laying people off to save money, then the
council hands a half-million to the Austin Music Network. Justice would have
council members handing out pink slips to tax-paying city workers and explaining
why a TV venue that has never produced a penny is more valued than them.

With only a short time left in office, Mayor Gus Garcia wants to expand the
smoking ordinance. Why? Never mind the potential losses in sales tax revenue or
that it might an be obstacle in drawing more convention dollars to the depleted
city treasury. The current ordinance strikes a fair balance and serves everyone.
Why change?

Maybe al Qaeda has targeted the Austin City Council with a weapon that affects
common sense.

DAVID L. REEVE

Austin

Less is more

The Jan. 30 article describing Mayor Gus Garcia's "vision" of a smoke-free
Austin shows why our municipal government needs leadership change ("Mayor
envisions a smoke-free Austin").

Facing economic and budgetary challenges, municipal leaders should focus on
strengthening police and fire departments, EMS and essential city services. They
should promote economic development and favorable conditions for business growth
and job creation. They do not need tell citizens how to behave or run their
businesses.

The prospective ban on smoking in restaurants infringes on the rights of
business operators and their customers to exercise freedom of choice. Dictating
lifestyle and social change is not the domain of municipal government.

Municipal government works best by the philosophy of less is more. Do the basics
well, and the governed will decide how to live on their own.

MARC KATZ

Austin

Katz has announced that he will run for mayor or Austin.

Dealing with terror

A 1-liter bottle full of anthrax or smallpox spores, properly deployed, could
shut down the U.S. economy for months, if not years, as we learned from the
previous anthrax attacks, which involved only a fraction of a thimbleful of
anthrax. I assume that no one disputes that it would be a trivial matter to
smuggle a 1-liter bottle of anything into this country.

I can't think of an effective way to deter governments that support terrorism by
encouraging or condoning this kind of activity other than to physically attack
such governments, at the personal physical risk of their leaders. Of course it
is an imperfect strategy but, like democracy, it is the "worst system, except
for all the others."

We will be attacked, many times, over many years. One of the tools that we have
to deal with this, however, must be going to where the terrorists and their
sponsors are, rather than waiting for their attacks.

DOUGLAS D. BRYCE

Georgetown

U.N. irrelevant?

It was with total dismay that I watched Secretary of State Colin Powell's U.N.
dog-and-pony show on Feb. 5. America is a country where the death sentence is
reserved for evidence beyond a reasonable doubt. With thousands of innocent
Iraqi lives at stake, Powell's evidence was interesting -- but beyond a
reasonable doubt? No way.

Though he warned that the United Nations was in danger of becoming irrelevant if
it failed to take immediate action, he needs to be reminded that the United
Nations was created to preserve world peace. A guiding principle of the body is
that nations must refrain from using force.

A United Nations that defers to patience and irrefutable evidence is not in
danger of irrelevance. In this Internet-connected world, where the free flow of
information exposes government propaganda and hypocrisy for what it is, I'm
afraid that it is Powell and his war-mongering cronies who need worry about
losing face.

THOMAS PARSONS

Dripping Springs

gyrolad@juno.com

Idea based on fear

In addressing the U.N. Security Council, Secretary of State Colin Powell had all
kinds of diagrams and nicely presented information that he called evidence that
Iraq's Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction. Despite the fact that by
any scientific, political or legal standards, the evidence was marginal and very
shaky, the idea that a war is necessary to get rid of those weapons is a failure
in itself. It is an idea based on fear.

Instead of relying on solid facts, President Bush and Powell are trying to use
fear to convince the American people that a war is the right thing. This war
will kill thousands of children and achieve nothing that can't be achieved with
peaceful but tough inspections.

ALEXANDER WALLACE

Cedar Park

War of aggression

International law provides clear criteria by which to judge whether a war is
just or whether it is a war of aggression. As the United States debates a
possible war with Iraq, we, as responsible citizens, need to consider these
criteria.

First, are we or our allies under attack? If the answer is no, then a second set
of criteria apply: Is there a demonstrable and immediate threat of attack? If
the answer is no, then the most recently developed criterion might apply: Is
genocide currently under way in the subject country? Lastly, have all peaceful
means of resolving the problem been exhausted? If the answer to all of these
questions is no, then the proposed war is a war of aggression and those
responsible for it may be subject to prosecution as war criminals.

PAUL E. POWELL

Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At the Capitol last month, Jean Boddie, left, Mary Gifford, Ed Gifford
and Marty Kennedy of Catholic Charities distributed angel food cakes with a
message. // Marc Katz

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               22 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 13, 2003, Thursday

Business Digest

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 580 words


AIR EMISSIONS

U.S. industries promiseto cut greenhouse gases

WASHINGTON Southern Co., General Motors Corp., Dow Chemical Co. and hundreds of
other companies agreed to curb industrial emissions under a voluntary White
House plan to combat global warming.

Trade groups representing 12 U.S. industries including automakers, power
producers, oil refiners and chemical manufacturers promised to slow during the
next decade the projected growth in emissions of so-called greenhouse gases
linked to global warming.

The administration's proposal aims to address concerns about global warming
without imposing the mandatory caps on industrial air pollutants favored by some
lawmakers. Legislation that would impose such limits on power plants was
introduced Wednesday in the Senate by a bipartisan group of lawmakers.

The environmental group Natural Resources Defense Council said Bush's voluntary
target translates into a 14 percent increase in greenhouse gases over 10 years.
Even with the voluntary cuts, power-plant emissions would rise by as much as 16
percent between 2000 and 2010, the group said.

OIL PRODUCTION

Light sweet crude hits a two-year price high

WASHINGTON - The price of light sweet crude rose to its highest level in more
than two years Wednesday after it was reported that U.S. crude oil stocks have
fallen to the lowest level since 1975 below what the industry considers
essential for smooth operation.

But government and industry officials say refiners have enough oil and that if
war in Iraq should disrupt the supply, the United States and other industrial
countries are ready to draw on government reserves.

Still, the low inventories could hamper the smooth flow of gasoline and heating
oil from refineries. Supplies of heating oil are one-third below comfortable
levels and gasoline inventories remain lower than they should be, according to
the government.

Light sweet crude reached $35.95 a barrel in intraday trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange before settling at $35.77.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Shareholder groups file more reform proposals

NEW YORK - Investor activists, driven by discontent about corporate scandals,
have stepped up pressure on companies to put reform proposals up for shareholder
votes.

Shareholder groups filed 862 proposals with companies through early February, up
from 802 submitted during all of last year, according to a report by the
Investor Responsibility Research Center and the Interfaith Center on Corporate
Responsibility.

About three-fourths of the proposals ask companies to change governance
practices including curbing excessive executive pay, separating the position of
chief executive and chairman, and asking companies to move their headquarters
back to the U.S. from offshore tax havens.

SOFT DRINKS

Coca-Cola says brands showing strong growth

ATLANTA - Coca-Cola Co. said strong growth in its trademark soda brands and for
waters and noncarbonated drinks helped it post higher profit and revenue for the
fourth quarter despite difficult economic conditions.

The earnings reported Wednesday met Wall Street's expectations.

For the three months that ended Dec. 31, the world's largest beverage maker
earned $930 million, or 38 cents a share, compared with $914 million, or 37
cents a share, a year ago.

Excluding a 2 cent a share reduction for an accounting change related to stock
options, Coke earned $996 million, or 40 cents a share, for the quarter.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               23 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          February 13, 2003, Thursday

Business Digest

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 584 words


AIR EMISSIONS

U.S. industries promiseto cut greenhouse gases

WASHINGTON -- Southern Co., General Motors Corp., Dow Chemical Co. and hundreds
of other companies agreed to curb industrial emissions under a voluntary White
House plan to combat global warming.

Trade groups representing 12 U.S. industries including automakers, power
producers, oil refiners and chemical manufacturers promised to slow during the
next decade the projected growth in emissions of so-called greenhouse gases
linked to global warming.

The administration's proposal aims to address concerns about global warming
without imposing the mandatory caps on industrial air pollutants favored by some
lawmakers. Legislation that would impose such limits on power plants was
introduced Wednesday in the Senate by a bipartisan group of lawmakers.

The environmental group Natural Resources Defense Council said Bush's voluntary
target translates into a 14 percent increase in greenhouse gases over 10 years.
Even with the voluntary cuts, power-plant emissions would rise by as much as 16
percent between 2000 and 2010, the group said.

OIL PRODUCTION

Light sweet crude hits a two-year price high

WASHINGTON -- The price of light sweet crude rose to its highest level in more
than two years Wednesday after it was reported that U.S. crude oil stocks have
fallen to the lowest level since 1975 -- below what the industry considers
essential for smooth operation.

But government and industry officials say refiners have enough oil and that if
war in Iraq should disrupt the supply, the United States and other industrial
countries are ready to draw on government reserves.

Still, the low inventories could hamper the smooth flow of gasoline and heating
oil from refineries. Supplies of heating oil are one-third below comfortable
levels and gasoline inventories remain lower than they should be, according to
the government.

Light sweet crude reached $35.95 a barrel in intraday trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange before settling at $35.77.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Shareholder groups file more reform proposals

NEW YORK -- Investor activists, driven by discontent about corporate scandals,
have stepped up pressure on companies to put reform proposals up for shareholder
votes.

Shareholder groups filed 862 proposals with companies through early February, up
from 802 submitted during all of last year, according to a report by the
Investor Responsibility Research Center and the Interfaith Center on Corporate
Responsibility.

About three-fourths of the proposals ask companies to change governance
practices including curbing excessive executive pay, separating the position of
chief executive and chairman, and asking companies to move their headquarters
back to the U.S. from offshore tax havens.

SOFT DRINKS

Coca-Cola says brands showing strong growth

ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co. said strong growth in its trademark soda brands and for
waters and noncarbonated drinks helped it post higher profit and revenue for the
fourth quarter despite difficult economic conditions.

The earnings reported Wednesday met Wall Street's expectations.

For the three months that ended Dec. 31, the world's largest beverage maker
earned $930 million, or 38 cents a share, compared with $914 million, or 37
cents a share, a year ago.

Excluding a 2 cent a share reduction for an accounting change related to stock
options, Coke earned $996 million, or 40 cents a share, for the quarter.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               24 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 13, 2003, Sunday

Young love loses innocence when violence interferes
Killing may show how parents, schools don't see emotional pressure, potential
for harm

BYLINE: Kathy Blackwell and Claire Osborn, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1864 words


They were two popular, successful high school sophomores who, at least for
several months, were in love. Now, one is dead, and the other is in a juvenile
detention center, charged with murder.

Some people who knew Ortralla Mosley, 15, and Marcus McTear, 16, say that what
happened in a stairwell March 28 at Reagan High School in Northeast Austin came
as a shock. Others say signs of trouble were obvious.

As the Austin school district begins to investigate Mosley's stabbing death and
her family, friends and classmates begin to heal, one thing is clear: The story
of these teenagers is more complex than a love relationship gone sour. It raises
questions about the climate of violence at schools and how educators are
responding. It indicates that today's students are dealing with emotional
pressures of which their parents may have little awareness.

Mosley, by all accounts, was a confident girl who wasn't afraid to speak her
mind. Yet she found herself in a controlling relationship that frightened her,
according to her mother and others.

McTear was friendly, polite and respectful of adults. But a prosecutor says he
had at least six disciplinary reports on file at Austin schools, including two
acts of violence against former girlfriends.

His father, Joseph McTear Jr., has a criminal record that includes an injury to
a child conviction related to the 1993 beating of Marcus' brother.

Family, friends and school officials say they still don't know how this happened
to two such promising teens.

"It's still hard to believe that it could ever happen, that our children can be
so disturbed that they have these thoughts," said Mosley's mother, Carolyn
Mosley Samuel.

Talented, talkative

Friends remember Mosley as an attractive girl who loved to talk and dance. Every
day during her two years at Reagan, she would arrive at school early to rehearse
with the dance team.

"She was outgoing and loved to meet someone who was shy," said Dale Larson, a
senior who danced on the squad with Mosley. She put her social skills to use as
a squad leader, a role that required her to organize special events such as
banquets. She also was an honor student and cheerleader whose friends called her
Tralla (pronounced Trail-a).

She wanted to be a doctor or lawyer, and her compassion for others was evident,
Samuel said. Once, during a trip to Houston, Mosley persuaded Samuel to give
$300 worth of food from McDonald's to a group of homeless people she had seen on
the street.

A few months after school started, Mosley began dating McTear, the punter and
backup fullback for the Raiders football team. He was polite and told Samuel he
wanted to be a minister. McTear spent so much time helping Mosley's family
remodel their house that his mother would have to call him to come home, Samuel
said.

Ortralla's father, Harrell Mosley, who lives in Corsicana, and Samuel divorced
when their daughter was 3.

When Samuel remarried recently at Greater Calvary Baptist Church, Ortralla
Mosley was in the wedding party, and McTear sang a solo.

"She was a very polite young lady," said the Rev. Sterling Lands, who officiated
at the ceremony. He complimented McTear on his singing. "I remember shaking his
hand. He was very humbled."

But the relationship was troubled, and by the time of the wedding, Samuel had
grown alarmed by what she described as McTear's controlling and possessive
behavior. Samuel said she talked to McTear's parents several times about getting
counseling for him, but they refused.

"I'm so angry that I left it in his parents' hands," she said. "They said,
'We'll take care of our child, and you take care of yours.' "

Mosley tried to break up with McTear. Distraught, he showed up at her house and
cut himself with a knife, Samuel and friends said. Samuel returned early from
her honeymoon to demand that McTear never contact her daughter again. She said
that she went to his family twice that week and that McTear himself told her he
desperately needed help -- two days before her daughter died. The day before she
died, Mosley broke up with McTear.

A little more than two weeks after Samuel's wedding, Lands would be at the same
church, this time officiating at Mosley's funeral. McTear would be sitting in
Gardner-Betts Juvenile Justice Center.

"The person that did that, I didn't even know him," Samuel said. "I knew the
person before that, and he was asking for help."

'My right-hand man'

Like Mosley, McTear was a good student and an active one. Besides playing
football, he ran on the track team, appeared in plays and was vice president of
the chorus. His football and track coaches say McTear was mature and
level-headed.

Andrew Barks, a 16-year-old junior at Reagan, said he was McTear's best friend.

"We were both comedians," Barks said.

He met McTear about a year ago, when they were both in a play. They liked to
make each other laugh and became inseparable. McTear encouraged Barks to run
track and motivated him to show up at practice.

Barks said he knew that McTear and Mosley fought. His advice to McTear was to be
quiet instead of talking back.

The day of Mosley's death, McTear spent 10 minutes laughing and joking around
with Barks during fifth period, Barks said.

Mosley also seemed to be in a good mood that day.

"She was the happiest I'd seen her in the last two weeks," he said.

When the school bell rang at the end of seventh period, Barks said, he walked
out of class and heard that Mosley had been stabbed.

"I thought, 'Where is Marcus?' " he said. When he heard that McTear had been
arrested the next day, Barks said, he was stunned.

"He was my right-hand man, and I didn't know anything," Barks said. Now he
doesn't know what to think.

"I can't get mad; I can't get sad; I can't do anything," Barks said.

Mosley was stabbed six times with a butcher knife in an assault that began in a
hallway and ended when she collapsed at the bottom of a flight of stairs.
Because it happened just as students were leaving class and rushing out to enjoy
the weekend, many saw the attack or its aftermath.

Mosley died an hour later at Brackenridge Hospital. McTear was also taken to the
hospital for stab wounds, which witnesses and police say were self-inflicted.

John Evans, Marcus McTear's lawyer, declined to comment. Authorities have not
decided whether to try McTear as a juvenile or as an adult.

Father's troubled past

Joseph McTear Jr. talked about Mosley's death when he spoke at a memorial
service his family held for her at Mims Chapel Church of God in Christ in East
Austin.

"I'm in a situation I've never been in before, and it's not easy," the
43-year-old former pastor told the congregation. "We have to learn to accept
things as they are."

McTear's family won't talk about what went wrong or about Joseph McTear's
criminal record of violence.

In 1993, he was accused of beating Marcus' brother, Joseph McTear III, then 8
years old. The boy told police his father spanked him with an extension cord,
according to court records. Police found several scars on the child's legs, arms
and stomach, the records said.

Joseph McTear Jr. told police that he had spanked his son four to five times
with a belt, but the belt was too thin, so he struck him two to three times with
the extension cord, according to court records. He said he wanted to punish his
son for misbehaving in school. In 1995, he was convicted of injury to a child
and placed on probation for eight years. There is no evidence that he ever beat
Marcus.

In October 2001, while still on probation, he phoned in a bomb threat to BFI
Waste Processing and Disposal, threatening to blow up three gas pumps and kill
people, according to court records. He had recently lost his job there. He was
convicted of making a terroristic threat and sentenced to serve 16 days in jail
and continue his probation.

In addition to these incidents, he was convicted of aggravated assault while
robbing a man at gunpoint in 1981. He declined requests for comment.

School's awareness

After Marcus McTear's arrest, details emerged that raised questions about
whether school officials had done enough to protect Mosley.

Melissa Douma of the Travis County district attorney's office told a juvenile
court judge that Marcus McTear was involved in at least six disciplinary
incidents in the schools, including assaulting another girlfriend and pushing
another one down the stairs at Reagan.

On the day of her death, Mosley told school officials that she was afraid to be
alone with McTear, that she feared he would push her down the stairs, Douma
said.

That fear was familiar to Elaine Gifford and her daughter, Rae Spence, 15, who
dated McTear in the eighth grade and throughout their freshman year at Reagan.
She was the girlfriend McTear pushed down the stairs, they said. Gifford said
she too called school officials and asked for help.

When it didn't come, she moved to Northwest Austin and enrolled her daughter in
Anderson High School. They went public with their story the week after Mosley's
death.

Lands, a community activist, has demanded that the school district investigate
the circumstances surrounding Mosley's death as well as the overall level of
violence at Reagan. District officials have agreed to that and to expand their
inquiry to all schools.

"The death of Ortralla Mosley has saddened us all," school board President Doyle
Valdez said in a statement. "Nothing is more devastating than the loss of a
child."

Breaking the pattern

Changes are under way at Reagan High School.

Last week, SafePlace counselors, who offer shelter and other services to victims
of violence and sexual assault, trained every Reagan teacher on the warning
signs of abusive behavior.

On Monday, every social studies class at the school will get the same training.

Its Expect Respect program, which teaches male and female students about healthy
relationships, is in place at more than a dozen Austin schools, but Reagan isn't
among them. School officials plan to change that next year.

Mosley's death should make it clear that many teenagers are confused about what
defines a healthy relationship, counselors say.

Without help, such patterns can easily follow both the victim and perpetrator
into adulthood, said Jane Morgan Bost, associate director at the University of
Texas' Counseling and Mental Health Center.

Bost is also project director of Voices Against Violence, which counsels college
students about relationship abuse, sexual assault and stalking.

As more information and counseling become available to young people, tragedies
like Mosley's will be less likely to occur, she said.

"It's going to take awhile, because it involves cultural change: how men treat
women, how women treat men," Bost said.

Mosley's mother said she wants McTear to get help. "If there's one message I can
get to him, it's that 'I will not give up on you.' "

kblackwell@statesman.com; 445-3694

(from box)

To find help

For more information on youth dating violence, or if you suspect that your child
may be in an abusive relationship, call SafePlace at 267-SAFE (7233).

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ortralla Mosley: 15-year-old stabbed to death March 28 at Reagan High
School. // Marcus McTear: 16-year-old charged with murder in former girlfriend's
death. // 'It's still hard to believe that it could ever happen, that our
children can be so disturbed that they have these thoughts,' Carolyn Mosley
Samuel said of the slaying of her 15-year-old daughter, Ortralla.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               25 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 26, 2003, Monday

City wants to make downtown more friendly
Developers say new proposals might drive them out entirely

BYLINE: Jonathan Osborne, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1578 words


The CarrAmerica Realty Corp. building looms over West Sixth Street, its wide
sidewalks dividing it from the street and its tall, slightly tinted windows
offering a view inside.

Lunch crowds file into the Thistle Cafe on the first floor. Around the corner,
on Guadalupe Street, steps lead to a private fitness center. Another 5,000
square feet off the lobby is for rent.

City of Austin planners look at all this -- from the windows to the
pedestrian-friendly street-level tenants -- and nod. The building is the kind of
project they had in mind when the Austin City Council approved the hundred-or-so
Downtown Austin Design Guidelines in May 2000, many of which were once
encouraged through Smart Growth incentives.

But three years later, the economy is soft and the Smart Growth program is on
hold. And with another vote by the council, many of these guidelines once
encouraged by incentives could soon become commandments.

At stake downtown is a ban on future drive-in bank tellers, a requirement that
new buildings on most lots between Lamar Boulevard and Interstate 35 rise at
least three stories and the end of gas stations anywhere but the Interstate 35
frontage road.

These three are the more controversial of 13 existing downtown design guidelines
that on June 12 the council will consider making mandatory in the name of
promoting a more foot-friendly urban core.

These three also are among the most unlikely to become law.

But they will be offered up anyway without the backing of the city's staff. The
10 other guidelines, which include calling on developers to reserve much of
their street-level space for shops, restaurants or outdoor plazas, are more
likely to become realities that developers will have to live with if they want
to do business downtown.

"We felt that these were minimal requirements, and it will benefit the downtown
area," said Katie Larsen, the city's project manager for this latest push. "Yes,
it's a requirement, but it's not one meant to impede or pick on downtown or
anything like that."

Cool reception

Many of the suggested ordinances, which include encouraging the construction of
overhead cover, such as awnings or balconies and the use of glass to cover at
least 50 percent of a new building's street-level facade, would not apply to
restoration projects or historical districts, such as East Sixth Street.

Still, the idea of making any guidelines mandatory hasn't received the warmest
welcome in many downtown business circles.

Public hearings and discussions with various downtown groups, including the
city's Downtown and Design commissions and the Downtown Austin Alliance, led to
dropping the city's most contentious recommendations.

But the biggest point of contention with many downtown leaders is the
requirement that would call for newly constructed projects to be built at
certain mandatory heights, based on what's called a floor-to-area ratio.

Technical language aside, if codified, the rule would require a developer to
build a minimum of three floors if it uses up an entire block. The height
requirement of the building would climb exponentially if less of the block is
used.

The theory is that this promotes urban density.

But some say that instead it would be a blow to entrepreneurs looking to build
farther down West Sixth Street or on other smaller lots throughout the central
business district.

"It's important to have density to make an interesting 24-hour city," said Perry
Lorenz, a developer and chairman of the Design Commission, which opposes
codifying -- making into law -- this specific guideline. "The other side of the
coin is, it penalizes the small guy."

Another counter argument often raised is that density comes naturally in the
life of a downtown.

"The underlying concern about density -- the concern that others have raised --
is that we may be shooting ourselves in the foot if we wind up impeding positive
development that may not comply with the letter of these rules," said lawyer
Chris Riley, who takes a more supportive view of the changes than the Downtown
Commission he chairs. His group approved of only one of the 13 recommendations
during earlier meetings with the city staff.

"I think the general view . . . is that the market will address the problem,"
Riley said, "that there is a natural sequence of development in the life of a
city: As property becomes more valuable, you expect it to become used more
intensely over time."

Poor timing

But like Riley's commission, some in the downtown community, including the
alliance, a tax-collecting authority within the downtown public improvement
district, think it's a bad time to turn most of these suggested guidelines into
law.

The common fear is this: In the current economic climate, making any guidelines
mandatory could drive developers into the suburbs and away from downtown, where
construction costs already are higher.

"There's three things at work: Smart Growth is disappearing, more design
standards and an economic development policy that doesn't offer much in
encouraging downtown development," said the alliance's executive director,
Charlie Betts. "Where does that leave downtown? We have strong concerns about
that."

Those worries were catered to on May 15 when the council approved a 20-year, $37
million investment in a proposed North Austin urban village. It was the city's
largest incentive package in five years and one far from Sixth Street and
Congress Avenue, the downtown's symbolic center.

Downtown boosters don't want to see any more projects slip away.

"It's difficult," said Lorenz, who helped write the guidelines, which, as a
developer, he also must live by. "Even the staunchest detractors of this
codification issue I think will still tell you that the guidelines are well
thought out and intelligent ideas and certainly lead to a more
pedestrian-friendly, interesting downtown.

"The sole controversy in my mind is whether or not they should be guidelines
that are incentivized or whether they should be codified and have the weight of
law behind them," said Lorenz, who leans towards the former scenario.

Pilot project

That leads back to CarrAmerica's 300 West Sixth building, which opened in
January 2002.

The guidelines were still being hammered out in late 1999 and early 2000 as Pace
and his team were planning the project.

After learning what the guidelines might entail, they were able to draw up an
alternative plan and earn enough incentives through Smart Growth to make the
changes, which included the retail space now home to the fitness center,
feasible.

"I think the guidelines made our project better," said Pace, who is against the
proposals. "The rub is that downtown development is already very costly . . .
and adding another layer of design-related ordinances will only add more cost
and may ultimately discourage or push development out of the urban core.

"If certain conditions would have been forced upon us -- we'd just have to
analyze it at that point. It's hard to say, would we still be here if
codification had been enforced at that point?"

But as Larsen, the city staffer charged with developing the recommendations,
said, without making some of these guidelines law, "you risk having new
buildings built that would turn their back away from the pedestrian. You risk
having some buildings being like some older buildings that some people just
don't like because they don't contribute to a vibrant downtown area."

josborne@statesman.com; 445-3621

(from box)

Changes under consideration

On June 12, the council will consider making 13 downtown design guidelines
mandatory. City planners are recommending the council pass ordinances that: *
Encourage construction of overhead cover, such as awnings or balconies, by
waiving annual licensing inspection fees.

* Call for trash receptacles, air conditioning units or heating equipment,
utility meters, loading areas and storage to be screened from public view if
feasible.

* Require that projects meet Austin Energy Green Building one-star ratings,
which deal with construction materials and efficiency.

* Require developers to build parking garages so that automobiles are obscured
from view and surface parking that is landscaped to obscure vehicles from the
street.

* Require developers of new projects to reserve 40 percent of their street-level
frontage space for pedestrian-friendly uses, such as restaurants, shops or
outdoor plazas.

* Call for 50 percent of a building's wall area facing a street to be
constructed of clear or lightly tinted glass.

* Create a maximum 10-foot setback from the public right of way for new
projects. Sidewalk cafes may spill into the public's right of way.

* Make Wooldridge Square, at Guadalupe and 10th streets, part of the downtown
park district.

* Require that new buildings around Wooldridge Square have an entrance facing
the square.

* Clarify the 'clear and lightly tinted' requirement for glass in certain areas
in the central business district.

City planners are recommending that the council not pass ordinances that: *
Prohibit drive-in services, such as the types used by banks.

* Ban service stations except along the Interstate 35 frontage road.

* Require that new development, except in otherwise designated areas, meet a 3-1
floor-to-area ratio, which essentially would mean a building taking up an entire
block must be at least three stories high.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charlie Betts: Executive director of Downtown Austin Alliance worries
about timing.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               27 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 6, 2003, Wednesday

Mold checks to lawmaker scrutinized
Prosecutors investigate whether insurance execs approved extra payment

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin and David Pasztor, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 684 words


Travis County prosecutors are investigating whether Farmers Insurance executives
approved an extra payment on a mold claim by the state lawmaker who wrote
legislation supported by the company.

Travis County District Attorney Ronnie Earle confirmed Tuesday that his office
is investigating the circumstances behind insurance company e-mails about Rep.
Joe Nixon's $300,000-plus claim for mold damage. The e-mails are an exchange
between the national mold manager for Farmers Insurance and a company vice
president for claims. One e-mail questions why Nixon, R-Houston, is to be paid
an additional payment for a mold claim that the e-mail saidallegedly is not
covered by insurance and had been denied at lower levels of the insurance
company.

Nixon did not return phones calls for comment Tuesday but released a prepared
statement denying wrongdoing.

"This is another attempt to impugn the character of the legislator who passed
tort reform," Nixon said.

During the regular legislative session, Nixon was the the primary sponsor and
driving force in the House of Representatives behind a controversial and
far-reaching bill aimed at cutting down on the number of lawsuits filed in
Texas.

As chair of the House Civil Practices Committee, Nixon created House Bill 4 by
combining one bill aimed at cutting down on medical malpractice insurance rates
with another containing a laundry list of lawsuit reform measures sought by
insurance and business lobbyists. The bill did not specifically address
mold-related insurance claims but contained a host of other changes in law that
insurance companies, among others, insisted were necessary to make the Texas
legal climate more friendly to businesses.

In the e-mails, Isabelle Arnold, the national mold manager for Farmers
Insurance, raises questions about Nixon's claim. The e-mail alleges that
higher-ups in Farmers Insurance "strong-armed" company officials into paying
Nixon's claim because he is a legislator.

In the response, Jim Daues, a vice president for claims for Farmers Insurance,
said the insurance company's Texas director John Hageman and company lobbyist
Mark Toohey "wanted Mr. Nixon to be a friend of Farmers in the Legislative
session. Each one strongly suggested that an additional payment would be very
helpful to the cause."

The e-mails are dated April 30 and May 4, 2003.

On June 30, Arnold filed a wrongful termination lawsuit against Farmer's
Insurance.

Jeff Beyer, a spokesman for Farmers Insurance, said Nixon made a claim for more
than $300,000 for mold damage to his house. He said an additional claim was for
$13,000 for damage caused by people removing the mold.

"This was a legitimate payment over a legitimate claim," Beyer said.

The e-mails were leaked to news organizations on Tuesday.

In his statement, Nixon acknowledged making a mold claim in 2001, two years
before the session in which he carried the legislation favored by the insurance
industry.

"My family was displaced for almost a year," Nixon said. "Any allegation of
wrongdoing is false. These are empty allegations trying once again to smear the
character of the person who passed tort reform."

Beyer could not confirm Tuesday night that Nixon's insurance claims stretched
over two years.

Nixon's legislation was intended to clamp down on when and how injured Texans
can file lawsuits, change legal rules to encourage earlier settlement of cases,
limit attorneys fees and shield businesses from some products liability
lawsuits.

Nixon defended the measure during days of ferocious floor attack from Democrats
before it was overwhelmingly passed by the GOP-controlled chamber.

The Senate later toned down the bill, and the House accepted the changes.

As passed, the bill places a $750,000 cap on on-economic damages such as pain
and suffering in medical malpractice lawsuits. Voters will also be asked in
September to approve a constitutional amendment to clarify the legislature's
power to limit non-economic damage awards in all lawsuits.

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617;dpasztor.com; 445-3631.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rep. Joe Nixon: State legislator has denied wrongdoing.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               29 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 25, 2003, Thursday

UP for the URBAN CHALLENGE
With their new and remodeled abodes on AIA Homes Tour, four architects take
neighborly approach and try to blend in

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN ARTS WRITER

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1655 words


Austin sprawls with cookie-cutter housing developments sprouting on suburban
fringes, some central city homeowners grow fiercer with their attachment to
their addresses.

Ah, the proximity to downtown, the tall, old-growth trees, the neighborhood
character. But with aging and small houses on lots that are sometimes
funky-shaped and often small, Austin's central neighborhoods hand architects
quite a challenge when it comes to upgrading an existing house or weaving in a
new one.

Four architects took that challenge and ran with it, crafting new homes or
re-crafting old ones to fit modern lifestyles and add additional space without
spoiling the scale -- and charm -- of the house or its neighborhood. The quartet
of smartly small new projects -- all are less than 2,000 square feet -- are just
some of the 15 homes that will be on the upcoming annual homes tour sponsored by
the Austin chapter of the American Institute of Architects.

Cottam Hargrave Architects answered the central city challenge by designing a
new, very modern house on South 2nd Street that tucks quietly onto a once-empty
lot among older, modest houses. The site demanded that the architects look to
the future and not just consider the present. "I see this house as being part of
the transition as this neighborhood slowly changes and gentrifies," says Jay
Hargrave. "So it was important to us not to be too ostentatious, to keep it kind
of low-key. We had to think of not just how this house would be now, but what it
will be in the future." The result? A modern, subtle two-story structure tucked
among existing trees on a wide lot that had been carved out of the back of three
adjacent lots.

For architect Nick Deaver, the challenge was how to not lose the charm of a
two-bedroom, one-bath, single-gabled 1940s bungalow in the Shoal Creek
neighborhood yet double the available living space. He started by leaving
well-enough alone: "It's important to first look for what an existing home
offers to begin with then do as a little as possible," he says. "You have to
make changes in a delicate way that's respectful to the neighborhood." Deaver
noted that bungalows are typically expanded by adding a large two-story addition
to the back, which usually looks like "an elephant that's been placed behind a
mouse." Deaver's project on Shoalwood Avenue offers an alternative to that look:
Behind the original house he placed a companion structure of the same scale and
connected the two structures with a wide, sun-filled hallway. Deaver said his
clients, a professional couple with a growing young family, also used the
remodeling project as an opportunity to make a lifestyle choice, passing on
adding extra closets in order to avoid accruing too much stuff. They also
decided to forgo rebuilding the garage, preserving and adding more green space
to the family-friendly yard.

The husband-and-wife architecture team of John Maier and Ulrike Zelter liked
living small in their half of a 1950 duplex in the Crestview neighborhood that
they bought for $95,000 in 1999. But they also wanted more modern and open
living spaces, natural light and access to outside living areas (porches,
decks), and they desperately needed to upgrade all plumbing and electrical
systems of the run-down house. So they gutted interior walls (with exception of
the bathroom ones) and created one, big living space with an 18-foot cabinet
that nearly reaches the ceiling and separates the main living area from the
bedroom. They also inserted sliding doors in the back wall that open up onto a
new large deck off the back yard. "Because the climate in Austin is conducive to
outdoor living a large portion of the year, we could limit the amount we were
spending on indoor space and get a larger bang for the buck developing good
outdoor spaces," says Maier. In all, Maier and Zelter spent close to $100,000
renovating both duplex apartments inside and out, but as they did much of the
construction work themselves, Maier said the final cost doesn't reflect "the
enormous amount of sweat equity we have in this project."

Architect Travis Young of Studio Momentum agreed with the new owner of a 1940s
bungalow in South Austin that there was plenty of charm in the run-down house,
but an odd-shaped lot (the property curved away from the street and ended in a
point in back) made any addition a real challenge. Like Maier and Zelter, Young
looked at shaping the spaces around the house to bring some design
sophistication to the project. He created a master suite addition on the rear of
the house that cleverly shapes a courtyard. And like Deaver, Young also kept
additions to the front of the house at a minimum, preferring instead to re-work
the 1940s details with a modern touch.

"Context issues were absolutely important to this project," says Young, adding
that as our central city neighborhoods change and densify, transforming existing
houses into modern homes means also keeping things at a neighborhood-friendly
scale.

"We don't live like we did 50 years ago," adds Deaver. "(These types of
projects) are like taking your vintage clothes and making them modern."

jvanryzin@statesman.com; 445-3699

(from box)

'The 17th Annual AIA Austin Homes Tour'

When: noon to 6 p.m. Oct. 4-5

Where: 15 homes, various locations

Tickets: $25; tickets are valid for the entire weekend. Purchase tickets in
advance at both Breed & Company locations, West 29th Street and on Bee Cave
Road. Purchase tickets online at www.aiaaustin.org. Tickets will also be
available during the tour at individual homes and the AIA Austin office, 503 W.
38th St.

Information: 452-4332; www.aiaaustin.org

Opening up, 2307 S. 2nd St., 78704

Architect: Cottam Hargrave, 225-2400

The challenge: Create a modern home in a modest South Austin neighborhood for a
professional couple who place a high premium on simplicity, privacy and outside
living space.

The budget: $190,000

The solution: The resulting 1,500-square-foot home has minimum number of
"rooms": A loft study/second living room space overlooks a single
kitchen-dining-living space and tops a master bedroom and bathroom. Outside, an
exaggerated shed roof structure covers a flexible 500-square-foot outdoor living
area in the back yard. Inside, the main living space faces the back yard through
a dramatic two-story curtain, wall of glass and opaque paneling. The South
Austin home tucks around existing trees and isn't overbearing in its
relationship to the street. Simple materials with minimal finishes -- stained
concrete floors, balustrades made of clear-coated plywood, galvanized metal
siding -- maintain the simplicity inside and out.

Decked out

1003-A Ruth Ave., 78757

Architect: Studio Maier + Zelter, 380-0110

The challenge: Bring a 'big house' modern open floor plan to an older 650-foot
duplex in a central city neighborhood.

The budget: $100,000

The solution: Not so much an addition -- husband-and-wife architects John Maier
and Ulrike Zelter added only a 40-square-foot mudroom to one half of a 1950
duplex -- this project was more of a revamp. The duo maximized the small space
by creating a flexible living area defined by a large cabinet wall with a
built-in desk. They also linked the inside to the outside with glass sliding
doors that lead to a large, new deck made of ipe wood, a super-dense,
weather-resistant hardwood. "Keeping the main living area small also has obvious
energy conservation implications too," adds Maier. He and Zelter also re-used
existing materials whenever possible, refurbishing steel casement windows,
cutting up concrete walkways that surrounded the house into tile-sized chunks
for new garden steppingstones and fashioning a dining table out of wide planks
of pine salvaged from an old wall.

An urban home 'companion'

4607 Shoalwood Ave., 78756

Architect: Nick Deaver, 494-9808

The challenge: Add considerable space to a 980-square-foot 1940s bungalow in the
Rosedale area without interfering with the small scale of the neighborhood.

The budget: $250,000 to $286,500

The solution: Instead of adding a second story addition to the two-bedroom,
one-bath bungalow, Deaver instead built a second "companion" structure of nearly
equal size -- 930-square-foot -- that sits behind the original house. In redoing
the front of the house, Deaver "looked at what the house already had to offer"
and just exaggerated a few nice details. A four-foot-wide front door adds a more
stately entrance than the original three-foot-wide door, and single-pane
casement windows replace the original multipane double hung windows with cleaner
look. Deaver said that a project of this type and quality of material generally
runs $130 to $150 per square foot.

Building momentum

1804 Collier St., 78704

Architect: Studio Momentum, 452-7961

The challenge: Modernize and expand a 850-square-foot 1940s bungalow and
300-square-foot shed into modern 1,900-square-foot home and studio/guest room on
an odd-shaped lot in the Kinney Avenue neighborhood.

The budget: About $140,000

The solution: In this seamless renovation, Studio Momentum added a master-suite,
upgraded a shed into a fully modern studio and guest room and completely
remodeled the interior of the existing house. Both the bathroom and kitchen were
completely rebuilt. Vaulting the ceiling of the main living area brought added
volume to the narrow space. And particular attention to how the structure
relates to the site means the new addition helps define a courtyard and livens
up the side of the house. "We knitted together the materials of original house
with the new materials of the addition so that you can't really tell where old
ends and new begins," says architect Travis Young.

This South Austin bungalow, above, was transformed with the addition of a master
suite at the rear and a shed remodeled into fully modern studio.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1804 Collier St. // 2307 S. 2nd St. // 4607 Shoalwood Ave. // A large
cabinet wall with a built-in desk separates the living space from the bedroom in
John Maier and Ulrike Zelter's 1950 duplex.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               32 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 12, 2003, Friday

Will wax creative for food
In tight times, panhandlers try everything from humor to patriotism for a little
spare change

BYLINE: Michael Corcoran, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1478 words


Some are funny, some are tragic. Some praise God and country, some just want a
drink, a sandwich or gas money for a Rolls Royce. Some are so bad that they're
good; the more misspellings and skewed sentiments the better.

Almost all are scrawled on cardboard, and the holders are mostly white males of
about Vietnam draft-eligible age. And they all hate the pixie stick hawkers who
sometimes take over their corners.

The homeless and hungry have gotta have a sign if they want to get a little
jingle in the jeans. Without a Magic Marker billboard announcing the nature of
their need, they're just guys (and the random gal) standing on the corner. And
in the current guilt-infested holiday climate, traditionally a time of powering
car windows down instead of up, every major intersection seems to have some
sad-eyed fella with a change-loosening come-on. "Anything helps" is currently
No. 1 on the cardboard chart, a sign of a down economy.

The nickels and dimes do add up, but the competition for them is tough these
days, and panhandlers are responding with more forethought in their marketing.
Corrugated cardboard remains the medium, but the message is constantly evolving,
from blunt scrawls to details of personal tragedy and humor with an edge.

It's not an easy way to cobble together a living, especially at the intersection
of 38 1/2 Street and Interstate 35, between the underpass and the overpass,
where the deafening freeway noise is nonstop. On a recent Saturday afternoon,
the cold air whipped through this wind tunnel, as a man named Jimbo squatted
next to a pillar for protection and held up a tattered sign that said "God Bless
America" next to a flag sticker. This is prime panhandling territory because
every car has to sit through at least one red light. That gives drivers time to
go soft, to cave in to the idea that the 37 cents in the cup holder might mean a
lot more to someone else. But Jimbo says he's only made about $4 in the past
hour and so he takes his sign to a quieter, sunnier spot, hoping he can still
make lunch money by dinner.

During a recent Friday afternoon rush hour, Mike Tate, 52, had been on the
corner of Manchaca Road and Ben White Boulevard for two and a half hours and
only made about $3. "It's going to be freezing tonight and I need enough money
to buy a bottle of propane," he says.

"Why don't you apply for Iraqi citizenship if you want a handout!" yells a
driver. Tate gets stuff like that all the time, though usually folks just yell
out "Get a job!" or "Get off the street, you bum!"

"People just don't understand," says Tate, whose sign declares him to be a
Vietnam vet. "I'm disabled. I'm almost blind." The American Legion sticker on
his sign yielded big dividends a few weeks ago when a Legionnaire pushed three
$20 bills into Tate's hand.

"I guess you can make more money with funny signs, but I'd rather be straight-up
with people. I don't feel like trying to be a comedian."

For Robert "Shorty" Rodriguez, a switch to a more humorous approach allowed him
to make enough money to stay at a motel. He used to hold a sign, out at Texas 71
East and Burleson Road, that just said he needed help. But when he switched to
"I need a taco," his proceeds improved.

Singer drawn to signs

"Whatever works," Austin singer Joe Ely says of the artistic motivation of the
cardboard clique. Ely has never considered himself homeless, even though from
age 16 to 24 he rode the rails and hobo-ed around the country. "I was on an
adventure," he says. But he has become something of an expert in panhandler
signs. He started buying them from homeless people about six years ago and
considers them a kind of folk art.

"The first one was this crudely drawn smiley face," Ely says. "I said, 'I'll
give you five dollars for your sign' and the guy didn't hesitate."

Ely said he was drawn to this unique hobby because while traveling across the
country he noticed that the signs were becoming more creative, or more haunting,
in their desperation. "I figure that if I give someone money for their art, then
they're not some beggar on the street, but a sign-maker." Ely has about 100
signs in his collection.

But one he didn't get was a sign he saw in San Francisco. Something about how
the holder was a victim of the stock market crash. "I went up to $20, which is
my limit, but the guy wouldn't sell," says Ely. "He told me, 'I made $180 with
this sign yesterday. Why would I sell it for $20?' " The next day, the
panhandler had a frame around his cardboard masterpiece.

There have been four main phases in the evolution of street-corner signage, Ely
says. The first wave he noticed was the starkly desperate "Hungry and Broke"
era. "It was all these people could do for money, was to tear off a piece of a
box and scrawl a message," Ely says.

Then, about five years ago, Ely noticed the ushering in of what he calls the
"honesty movement." A favorite theme of the period was admitting that all
proceeds would go directly to a big jug of wine. "I Need a Drink!" screamed one
popular message.

Next came the storytellers, who packed as much biographical info onto the pieces
of cardboard as possible. "Wife died in fire, kids are sick, need bus fare back
to Oklahoma." That kind of stuff.

And now we're in the patriotic phase. Flag stickers pay for themselves in
minutes. And we're also in the "laid-off comedy writers phase." There seems to
be some thinking that if you'll pay $15 cover to go to the comedy club and maybe
laugh nine times, you might throw a hobo a buck because his sign says, "I'll
sleep with your wife for money." Especially if the missus is in the passenger
side.

"There's something to be said for the humorous approach," says Eric Webber,
marketing vice president at GSD&M. "It puts people at ease. The risk is that
you're going to be seen as too glib. The issue of homelessness is not funny and
you're going to turn off a lot of people by saying, for instance, that you need
fuel for your Learjet."

Webber says there is a similarity in philosophies guiding both
multimillion-dollar ad campaigns and the guy on the corner asking for help.
"Like most forms of advertising, that sort of interaction happens quickly. Good
advertising, like an effective cardboard sign, grabs your attention. But that's
only the first part. How do you catch someone's eye and get them to think about
and respond to your message in an instant?"

Another key to success in garnering ashtray money is individuality, Webber says.
"How do you differentiate yourself from everybody else doing the same thing?"

Watching the market

Steve Blair does a little bit of market research before he scrawls his sign for
the day. "I like to look at the faces in the cars," says Blair, who sleeps
outdoors. "If they look gloomy, I'll make up a sign that says, 'If I can smile,
so can you' or 'Don't be a fuddy duddy.' " But business is slow at the corner of
West Fifth Street and Lamar Boulevard on a Sunday afternoon. In two hours, Blair
has pocketed just $3. His wheelchair-bound buddy David Ruiz is doing better:
$7.50 over the same period. "The chair has something to do with it," Ruiz says.
"But people also like my sign." It says, "I don't rob or steal I just need an
honest meal." Ruiz laughs. "It's not like I can rob or steal from a wheelchair.
That's a slow getaway."

Get a couple of homeless panhandlers together and they'll reminisce about their
best day on the street. For Ruiz it was last year when he painted his face blue
and held up a sign that said "I'm so blue, how 'bout you?" He made $150 in an
hour. "Usually, the best you can hope for is about $20 in three hours," he says.

Nothing reflects the state of the economy like the amount of money working folks
are willing to give to the needy. "I've never seen it as bad as it is now," Tate
says of the meager donations. "It might pick up closer to Christmas, but right
now everyone's broke."

It wasn't like that in the high-tech boom, when red light giving was so
prevalent that, Ely says, he kept encountering sign holders who wouldn't sell
their cardboard because it didn't belong to them. "There was a guy who was kinda
the homeless sign pimp," Ely says. "He was paying people an hourly wage and then
collecting all the money they took in. If that isn't a microcosm of America's
corporate culture I don't know what is."

Recent research shows that the mack daddy of corrugated messaging has made like
Intel and headed out of town after the crash.

Some drivers stare ahead, avoiding the man and his plea off to the side. Some
yell "Get a job!" to the men who fought in Vietnam and the ones who pretend they
did. Some have a chuckle and dig for a buck.

But everybody drives on. The marketplace changes with each green light.

mcorcoran@statesman.com; 445-3652

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From Interstate 35 and William Cannon Drive to Burleson Road and Texas
71 East, signs that strike a chord can draw more charity. At lower left is a
sign from singer Joe Ely's collection. // Mike Tate, 52, says funny signs might
help some collect money, but he'd rather be straightforward. Though few folks
are rolling down their windows right now, he says donations might pick up closer
to Christmas. // Singer Joe Ely, who buys panhandlers' signs as a form of folk
art, has seen trends including biography and honesty in recent years. // Joe
Ely: In his travels, he noted an increase in creativity, or desperation, in
messages.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               34 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 16, 2003, Sunday

A plea toinsurersfor voterad fundsInsurers were hit to fund voter ads, Handout
sheds light on business group's disputed political bidNew detail on business
group's disputed political effortBusiness group in grand jury case has tried to
donorsNew detail on political effort of business group facing grand jury
inquiryBusiness lobby sought money for $2 million political campaignCAMPAIGN:
Insurers helped finance political ads

BYLINE: Laylan CopelinAMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 985 words


When Texas Association of Business President Bill Hammond created a $2 million
secret fund to elect a business-friendly Legislature, he didn't just ask for
chump change.

At a statewide insurance conference in August, Hammond urged insurance
executives to write corporate checks of $50,000 to $100,000 to finance a "voter
education project."

That project is now the focus of a Travis County grand jury investigation into
whether the association circumvented state law barring corporate spending in
political campaigns.

Hammond's group previously has refused to identify who donated to the effort,
though it implied that the fund raising was limited to its own membership. It's
now clear that the solicitations went beyond association members and included
insurance companies.

With homeowners complaining about skyrocketing insurance rates and state
officials targeting the industry for its prices and practices, Hammond assured
the insurers group in writing that corporate donations -- unlike other political
contributions -- would never have to be disclosed to the public. He pitched the
advertising effort for the November election as the best opportunity to advance
business interests.

"The November election is upon us, and we are preparing to do battle once
again," Hammond wrote in a handout to the insurance executives. "While this
program is costly, there is no doubt that this is a real opportunity to make a
difference in the political climate in Austin."

Six months later, Hammond and his association's lawyers are trying to back up
their promise of confidentiality for the corporate donors. They are fighting
grand jury subpoenas and requests for information in civil suits brought by
Democrats ousted by Republican legislators endorsed by the association.

At issue is whether the association violated state law on campaign financing, or
whether it was protected by the First Amendment because the money paid for ads
focused on issues, not specific political candidates.

Hammond's critics point to his six-figure solicitations and his courtship of the
embattled insurance industry as warning signs. At $50,000 to $100,000 a clip,
the association's war chest that financed an advertising blitz in 24 legislative
races could have been underwritten by as few as 20 to 40 companies.

Austin lawyer Buck Wood, who is suing the association, argues that having a
handful of corporations trying to influence the election with large sums will be
viewed differently than if the association's 140,000 members contributed.

He said U.S. Supreme Court decisions say states have an interest in regulating
corporations' ability to amass large sums to influence elections.

"Having for-profit corporations with major interest in decisions at the
legislative and executive branches giving six-figure contributions in secret is
intolerable," Wood said. "I don't think the courts of this state or the United
States Supreme Court is going to tolerate it."

Houston lawyer Andy Taylor, representing the business group, disagrees.

Taylor says the court decisions are referring to direct contributions to
candidates, not expenditures independent of a candidate's campaign.

"If it's truly independent, it doesn't matter how many or how few contributors
participated," he said.

Hammond has said he turned to raising corporate money because executives tend to
give more when the money isn't coming from their own wallets. Instead of the
usual $50,000 to $100,000 the association could amass from individuals during a
two-year election cycle, Hammond was able to double his initial goal of $1
million in corporate money in a matter of months.

Taylor said Hammond's appearance at the insurance conference was unique. He said
Hammond usually just phoned corporate officers for the donations and did not
limit his search for money to his membership.

Taylor is arguing that the business group's mailings, although sometimes
critical of its opponents, did not advocate the election or defeat of a
particular candidate. He said issue ads are protected by the First Amendment and
that the association won't disclose its donors.

"TAB acted within the spirit and letter of the law," Taylor said. "If the
critics don't like it, they should change the law."

The group spent the $2 million, all but $100,000 of it in corporate money, in 22
targeted House races and two Senate races. According to its newsletter, 17 of
the 22 candidates it endorsed won in the House, and one won in the Senate.

Nearly all of the money was used for mail advertising. Some of the group's 89
campaign pieces gave legislators either an "A" or "F" on business issues. Others
warned that trial lawyers were funneling millions of dollars into the
legislative campaigns.

Some ads criticize candidates whom the group opposed. One, based on Rep. Ann
Kitchen's vote for a one-year delay of a school reading test, said Kitchen
believed: "You don't have to read to succeed." Kitchen, an Austin Democrat, was
beaten by Republican Todd Baxter.

Craig McDonald is executive director of Texans for Public Justice, which tracks
political money. He criticized Hammond's solicitation from the insurance
industry.

"It appears that TAB bankrolled its $2 million corporate spending spree with the
insurance industry's money," he said. "Ever since we've been in a rate crisis,
the insurance industry has been mobilizing huge amounts of money to fend off
pro-consumer regulation and a rate rollback."

Taylor refused to say whether any of the $2 million came from insurance. To do
so, he said, would be waiving his client's right to keep that information
secret.

McDonald remains unsatis- fied.

"This raises so many issues about exactly what money the insurance industry was
throwing around," he said. "It's time the Legislature investigated."

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               36 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           April 23, 2003, Wednesday

Central Texas digest

SECTION: Business; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 358 words


SEMICOPNDUCTORS

Applied Materials

cuts 238 Austin jobs

Applied Materials Inc. cut 238 Austin jobs on Tuesday as part of the company's
previously announced reduction of its global operations to reduce company
spending in line with weak business conditions in the global chip industry.

Tuesday's cuts drop Applied's Austin-area employment below 2,300 people, or less
than half the company's peak employment here at the end of 2000.

Austin is the main manufacturing center for Applied, which is the largest maker
of semiconductor manufacturing equipment.

The company, which is headquartered in Santa Clara, Calif., said last month that
it would cut 2,000 jobs, or 12.5 percent of its worldwide work force, as part of
a plan to reduce quarterly spending by as much as $100 million. Applied also
said it would vacate 19 buildings that it leases in the United States.

In Austin, Applied has operations in 16 buildings, seven of which it owns.

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

Lakeway panel OKs

changes in zoning

The Lakeway City Council unanimously approved zoning changes for about 50 acres
for a project that would include a 24-hour Wal-Mart Supercenter.

The proposed Wal-Mart is part of Rio Development Corp.'s planned $60 million to
$70 million Avenue of the Lakes, a retail and office project with up to 600,000
square feet west of RM 620 and north of Lohmans Crossing Road.

Developers Robert Walker and Larry Stauffer still need numerous other approvals
and permits but hope to start the Wal-Mart construction this fall.

Residents who oppose what would be the community's first big-box discount
retailer fear that a Wal-Mart would kill off local businesses and bring unwanted
traffic and crime.

About 150 people attended the meeting, with six speaking in favor and about a
dozen speaking in opposition.

Opponents are trying to stop the project by appealing the rezoning of what they
say is a key 5-acre tract needed by the developers as open space to the meet
city requirements.

A hearing is expected in May. However, Stauffer said developers have ample
acreage for the development without that tract.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               37 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 25, 2003, Sunday

rustling up roses
With plastic bags and shears in hand, they scout the countryside looking for the
blooming reminders of their grandmothers' gardens

BYLINE: Julie Ardery, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 2369 words


BOERNE -- "YEE-HAH!" A white-haired computer executive with a perilous allergy
to sunlight stands caterwauling under the noontime sky, gnashing a pair of
garden snippers. If he were a little lighter on his feet, Joe Cooper would jump
up and down. He's got Ziploc bags, paper towels, a water bottle, a notepad and
pencil, dark glasses and a tire-sized sombrero. He's hot to rose rustle.

For the next four hours, Cooper, his friend Frances Brandes of Kerrville and I
loop and lurch though the Hill Country and San Antonio in search of old roses.
"Rose rustling is highly contagious," Cooper says, "and there's no known cure."

Seven years ago, he began planting old roses on 8 acres of "caliche and rock"
north of Boerne, and today his Peaceful Habitations Rose Gardens is home to more
than 1,000 plants: 600 varieties of antique roses. Some of these he politely
bought, but most of them were rustled: snipped and rooted from bushes Cooper and
his friends spotted driving through the Texas landscape.

I'm scrunched in the backseat of Joe's pickup as he and Frances warble on about
Souvenir de Mme. Leonie Viennot, Katy Road Pink and other roses among their
favorite prickly treasures, and the renowned treasure hunters who tracked down
so many of them. The conversation trails beyond my ken into Latin botanical
names and discussion of an Iowa hybridizer. Ho-hum. Then "There's-a-rose!" they
bark in unison, and I'm hurtling toward the dashboard.

On the west side of San Antonio, we've jammed to a stop near some softball
fields, next to an empty house. A 10-foot bush is spilling leafy canes over a
chain-link fence. Frances and Joe quiz each other as to its possible identity,
jump out and, like great white bees, begin sniffing and squinting into its early
flowers, the first blooms of spring. They are in a tizzy; with all their years
of looking and growing, this cherry-red rose is completely new to them. Out come
the snippers. Joe clips a few pencil-sized canes, cutting them into 6-inch
sections, while Frances holds a bag open to receive each bunch of stems, sealing
them in with damp paper towels. "Instant greenhouse," Joe says smugly.

Just before I bumped my head, Frances had been explaining how, had it not been
for the Texas Rose Rustlers' discoveries and successful rooting of old roses,
San Felipe Noisette and many other varieties "would have been lost forever." But
as we fumble with water bottles and bags on a curb in west San Antonio and Joe
darts a look over his shoulder, I'm not feeling too noble -- more like a
middle-age hooligan with her hand hung in a jar of thorns.

Anyone who's tried gardening in Texas grows broad-minded. From prissy concerns
such as "Is it pretty?" or "Does it take shade or sun?" one gets down to balder
requirements: "Can it live?" and "Where do I get one now?" Pam Puryear grasped
these fundamentals back in the mid-1970s, after several years of what she calls
rose "horticide." Then living at her family home in Navasota, she had been
toiling to grow hybrid tea roses, the exquisite long-stemmed beauties you see
standing in pails at the flower shop. Even with the "green fingers" Puryear
inherited from her gardening grandmother, she just couldn't pull off hybrid tea
roses. "I mean, they took one look at our summers and turned into three brown
sticks," she says.

One dry August day she drove out into Grimes County to photograph a cabin built
about 1820 on a limestone cliff. "I don't guess water had been laid on within 10
miles," Puryear says. The place had been abandoned in the 1940s, but "here were
these two roses planted on either side of the front door, and they were about 10
feet tall and 10 feet wide and you couldn't put your finger between the blooms.
And I looked at those roses, and I looked at those three brown sticks I had at
home, and I said WAIT A MINUTE. I've been picking the wrong roses."

Puryear had found Old Blush, a rose that predated all the hybrid teas by more
than a century. And she kept on finding it, in cemeteries and vacant lots and
yards all over Texas. This and other so-called China roses descended from plants
that 18th-century English botanists gathered in Asia and prized for their long
blooming seasons. Pioneer Texans had loved them, too, for their fragrance and
generous flowering -- and their capacity to look a Texas summer in the eye.
Chinas don't do well in cold climates, so nurserymen of the North and East
dropped them from their catalogs. Growers in the South generally stopped
offering them, too, once hybrid teas, first introduced in 1867, captivated the
public. The fragrant old roses all but disappeared from the marketplace, but
thanks to their inherent toughness and the relative ease with which they could
be passed from friend to friend, they survived anyway. It was old rose
enthusiasts such as Puryear who ensured that survival, taking cuttings of found
roses, nestling them in clean soil, and then nursing them along with dappled
sunlight and moisture until the slips grew roots of their own.

"If you are looking at Archduke Charles," Puryear says with wonder, "this is the
same bloom your great-grandmother was looking at. Somebody came and cut off a
piece and planted it and it grew and then cut off a piece and planted it and it
grew. . . It's a rose bush that's 5 miles tall and you just have the tip of it;
the root is back 150 years ago. It's so nice in a world of change to have
something that's absolutely true."

Two other Texans made similar discoveries around the same time. William Welch,
an extension landscape horticulturist at Texas A&M University, found several old
garden roses at a nursery in California, brought them back to Texas and grew
them successfully at his home in Washington County. Then, on a visit to Mangham,
La., he discovered a beautiful purplish pink rose which has since been spotted
growing all across the Deep South but never identified. It still goes by Maggie,
the name Welch chose for it in honor of his wife's grandmother.

Around 1980, Mike Shoup, then a young horticulturist from Houston, was just
getting his start in the nursery business with an inventory of photinias and
ligustrums, all the Stepford-Wife shrubbery of those days. Then the oil crash
hit, and Shoup was scrambling to keep his nursery solvent. He began gathering
and growing native plants as a niche business; meanwhile, one of his
propagators, Tommy Adams, came across a giant climbing rose blooming untended in
the countryside near Marble Falls. This was Mermaid, a rose as fierce as its
name is dainty. With thorns like talons, it grows to 20 feet and, as reported in
Shoup's recent rose catalogue, "is a good choice for smothering ugly
outbuildings."

Puryear's amateur daring and knowledge of Texas history, Welch's plant expertise
and contacts in the world of extension horticulture and Shoup's determination to
succeed in the nursery business mixed by accident and made magic. They met in
the early 1980s and with a small group of fellow old rose fanciers from the
Houston area became the Texas Rose Rustlers.

Setting out in the spirit of "yee-hah," they've been at the forefront of an
international movement to locate, identify and save old roses.

Puryear and Margaret Sharpe, a maverick in the rather stuffy Houston Rose
Society, produced the group's first newsletter, The Old Texas Rose, in September
1982. A year later, Shoup and Welch opened The Antique Rose Emporium north of
Brenham, offering all the beauties that these brake-jamming, clipper-gnashing
bio-antiquers had managed to find and root thus far: Old Blush, Maggie, Mermaid
and more than 60 others.

If you want roses fit for the Miss America pageant, these buds aren't for you.
Pastel colors, loose blooms, short stems, longevity and heartaching fragrance
aren't telegenic. But if you'd like to enjoy roses in your very own yard,
they're the greatest qualities of all.

"Breeders for the last 75 to 100 years have been concentrating all their efforts
on getting that perfect flower, the long stem, the bright colors, the one to win
best of show," Shoup says, "and they did that to the demise of what was inherent
in roses" -- their scent, variety of shape and hardiness. These old roses, he
says, "have withstood Mother Nature's onslaughts." Many thousands of roses were
introduced in the 19th century, and "99 percent of those have been weeded out.
You're only privy to the strongest."

When you find old roses blooming like mad in an abandoned lot, Shoup says,
"you're looking at the best time-tested plants" for that locale. It's not that
the old roses are immune to black spot, the scourge of every rose gardener. "We
just call it early fall color," Shoup says laughing, because these roses will
endure and flower again.

Welch left the nursery business in 1986 to focus on teaching and writing; his
1990 book, "Antique Roses for the South," packed with his own research and
photography, drew also from a decade of the Texas Rose Rustlers' discoveries.
Shoup's Antique Rose Emporium, which began with rustled cuttings, thrives and
has attracted competition. He grows 250,000 roses annually and operates a
healthy mail-order and wholesale business, supplying several Austin outlets with
plants. Shoup has opened a second nursery in San Antonio, and receives 80,000
visitors a year at the display gardens in Independence north of Brenham. A visit
at peak bloom time will rival your first French kiss.

Neither Welch nor Shoup attended this spring's gathering of the Texas Rose
Rustlers. Neither did Pam Puryear. She says that once the group grew beyond a
certain size, the rustlers became too formidable. What person in their right
mind would welcome "30 cars and people converging on you with snippers"? Puryear
declares, "Success killed 'em."

But that's not so. Much like Old Blush, the Texas Rose Rustlers organization
lives on with a minimum of tending. Club secretary Virginia Sissom says
membership is holding steady at "a little over 200." Many of the newer members,
she says, are young "first-time homeowners who're looking for drought-tolerant
shrubs," busy people who don't have time to fuss over their flowers. Antique
roses do make good garden plants, but the rose rustlers aren't truly practical;
they're in it for thrills and a whiff of eternity.

"This is the only crazy thing I do," says Linda Mieke of Paige, grinning and
holding a shaggy little rose in a 6-inch pot.

The ultimate kick, Sissom, says, "is finding one that's not in commerce and
propagating it so it doesn't die out." About 50 people gathered at Cooper's
gardens near Boerne April 26 for the spring meeting, coming from as far away as
Waco, Houston, Taylor and Schulenburg. Saturday morning they swapped rose
cuttings under the trees. Ursula White helped Patricia McCain identify a mystery
rose as Annie's Red. Brandes, dubbed "Rose Nazi" for the afternoon, supervised
five lucky visitors who had won the chance to take a few cuttings in Cooper's
sumptuous garden. Club president Audrey McMurray gave a jocular refresher course
in rose rustling etiquette. "Always ask permission," she counseled the group,
"and always go when the soaps are on." Sunday morning, Cooper would lead a
caravan of 20 hard-core rustlers along the route we'd traveled in late March.

After two decades of looking, you'd think they'd have found all the antique
roses around, especially because so much Texas dirt keeps turning to pavement
and "perpetual care" (aka riding mowers, weed eaters and herbicides) has
destroyed the old plants in hundreds of cemeteries.

But Joe's and Frances's quick stop on Nevada Street in San Antonio proves there
are adventures left to be had, and some of them are hot pink. What other
search-and-rescue mission lets you feel like a hoodlum again?

At Peaceful Habitations Rose Gardens, old-fashioned signs, each with the name of
a rose and its description, line the barn wall.

Anntique vs. tea

Tea rose hybrids, the oh-so-perfect long stemmers familiar to Valentine couples
everywhere, are a far cry from the antique roses prized by rustlers and some
growers. Here's how the two types typically compare (the two varieties shown
here may not fit all of these characteristics):

Martha Gonzales antique

Stem: stubby, plentiful leaves

Color: varies; a lot of pinks and pastels

Size: 2-foot to 10-foot shrubs

Hardiness: if well established, will last a lifetime

Squire tea

Stem: long, few leaves

Color: varies; deep red abounds

Size: 2-foot to 4-foot shrubs

Hardiness: demands constant care

Sources: Antique Rose Emporium and Barton Springs Nursery

(from box)

Antiques made for Austin soil

One local nursery specializing in antique roses, Barton Springs Nursery at 3601
Bee Cave Road, recommends these varieties, out of 50-60 in stock, as best suited
for the Austin-area climate and soil conditions. Consider whether you want a
shrub or a climber, the size you want the plant to reach, the color of the
bloom, the scent strength and whether you want a repeat bloomer (spring to fall)
or not.

* Old Blush

* Mutabilis

* Martha Gonzales

* La Marne

* Katy Road Pink

* Perle d'Or

* Cecile Brunner

* Climbing Pinkie

* Penelope

(from box)

Rose-rustling etiquette

The public good will toward rose rustlers is a fragile thing to be cherished and
protected. Few things will do more damage than getting caught in the act --
clippers and cuttings in hand -- without having asked permission from plant
owners. Here are the Texas Rose Rustlers' steps to good etiquette when
approaching owners:

* Always ask first.

* Try to understand the meaning of the word "no."

* Explain what you are doing.

* Be restrained -- never take more cuttings than the plant or owners can stand.

* Take pictures and make notes. Be professional and send copies to the owners.

* Be friendly and share information.

* Express your gratitude.

* Offer something in exchange -- a small rooted cutting as a gift to the owners
pays off.

* Leave before they begin to think you are going to stay for dinner.

For more information: www.texas-rose-rustlers.com

Go to rose rustling on the navigation bar and then to the etiquette section.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rose rustler Joe Cooper has nurtured clippings into some of the 1,000
plants in his Peaceful Habitations Rose Gardens in Boerne. // Look to old
cemeteries for Delila's Rose and other long-forgotten antique plants. //
Virginia Sisson, left, watches as Pat Gerard and Pat Cayer take a clipping from
a La Reine rose they found at an old ice house. // Pat Cayer, left, and Linda
Mieke carefully clip a Delila's Rose bush thought to be more than 100 years old
during a rustle in April. // It doesn't take a lot of equipment to rustle roses:
a camera for documenting the plants, a plastic bag and wet paper towels for the
clipping, and garden shears to make the cut. // Mutabilis roses start out as
pale pink, then brighten. // Perle d'Or petals curl back as the flowers bloom.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               38 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 3, 2003, Sunday

Harvesting success
Ed and Susan Auler overcome doubters and disasters to make winery the toast of
Texas

BYLINE: Dale Rice, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 1883 words


When Ed and Susan Auler were building their winery 300 yards from the shore of
Lake Buchanan in 1982, Susan received a call from friend Whit Hanks.

The antiques dealer, who had just returned from Paris, told her he had purchased
something with her in mind: the stable doors from the Louis Pasteur Hospital.
It took just one look to sell her on the horse-chewed portal.

After a little patching, the Aulers had a frame built to hold the wooden doors,
which have iron bars over the glass windows, and then installed them as the
entrance to their new barrel room, where they would be aging the wine.

It was an important symbol for the fledgling winery.

Those doors, from the place where Pasteur established the basic scientific
principles involved in turning sugar to alcohol, represented both a link to the
rich history of winemaking and to the potential of an endeavor based on
risk-taking.

Now, 20 years after the winery opened, the presence of the doors seems
prophetic.

Fall Creek Vineyards is the third-largest winery in the state, and the Aulers
have been a critical force in building a reputation and a market for Texas wine.

During the 1990s, Fall Creek helped decimate the commonly held belief that Texas
wines were inferior by winning or placing highly in several international
competitions and by beating some well-known California wines on their home turf.

Unfortunately, as they were reaping the fruits of that labor, they were among
the first in the Lone Star State to face a dreaded disease that destroyed their
vines and threatens -- in a race with science -- vineyards from here to
California.

Still, that peril hasn't dampened their enthusiasm for winemaking or their
optimism.

"I believe we have only begun to scratch the surface of the potential market in
Texas and the potential market outside Texas," Ed Auler says.

Texas Agriculture Commissioner Susan Combs says the Aulers are key ambassadors
for the state's wine industry.

"They're terrific salespeople for us," Combs says. "They've done a tremendous
job of putting the Hill Country on the national and international map."

The groundwork for a vineyard

Thousands of years ago, the Aulers' patch of the Texas Hill Country was
inhabited by Native Americans who lived on and traveled along the banks of the
nearby Colorado River.

That river, over the millennia, laid the groundwork for Fall Creek Vineyards.
During flooding, it carried silt from West Texas, eventually depositing it in
the valley where the vineyards are today.

As Ed is fond of saying, "We have the best topsoil that West Texas ever
produced."

That dirt was piled on a geological base established by the erosion of limestone
hills to the north, sandstone to the west and granite to the south, all of which
contributed to a mineral-rich soil similar to the great wine regions of France.

But the area would never have been ripe for grapes if it hadn't been for Lyndon
Baines Johnson. As a young congressman, he garnered support for a major public
works project -- the Highland Lakes -- aimed at protecting Austin from flooding,
providing electricity for the Hill Country and establishing a reliable source of
irrigation for rice farmers near the coast.

As a key part of the project, one of the dams on the Colorado created Lake
Buchanan, which experts predicted would take 20 years to fill.

Three weeks after the dam was completed, the lake was full and water was flowing
over the spillway following one of the largest rainfalls ever recorded in Texas.

That was the last necessary element for wine production: natural air
conditioning.

Grapes, to be suitable for wine, need a rest each night. If it stays too hot,
the fruit keeps producing sugar and losing acid. To preserve that acidity -- a
critical component of wine -- they must take a breather, which happens only when
there is enough of a drop from daytime temperatures.

That's where Lake Buchanan comes in.

Winds across the 8-mile expanse of water produce a rapid cooling effect that
results in temperatures most nights that are as much as 10 degrees cooler than
Austin's.

A trip changes everything

The micro-climate may have been ready for grapes, but it never occurred to the
Aulers to plant them.

In an effort to diversify the cattle ranch outside Tow that had been in his
family for generations, Ed had considered pecans, peaches and apples, rejecting
each in turn.

About that time, Susan decided she wanted to take a trip to France to learn more
about wine.

"The truth is I didn't know enough about wine to carry on a two-sentence
conversation, and she didn't know a whole lot more," Ed says.

So he decided to go along -- to learn about French cattle.

So much for that idea. They spent three days with cattle and three weeks in
chateaus, he says.

"We fell in love with wine."

They also pondered whether they could produce it back home. After all, to them,
many of the regions they were visiting in France looked like the Texas Hill
Country.

Two years after that 1973 trip, the Aulers planted their first test plot on the
edge of the ranch and bought the adjacent valley land that later would become
their vineyard.

By 1979, they had 7 1/2 acres of grapes and were producing wine in a renovated
garage, turning out vintages in '79, '80 and '81. "In '82," Ed says, "we decided
to get serious."

They cleared the land, put in vineyards and built the winery, which opened in
1983.

But it hasn't all been smooth.

The first major hurdle was persuading lawmakers to allow wine production in
"dry" regions (areas that did not permit the sale of alcohol). That was achieved
in 1978.

The second hurdle was the approval of alcohol sales, which occurred in 1990 when
residents of the Tow area voted to make their area "wet."

Allowing consumers to taste and purchase wine at Fall Creek has been a major
boon.

"It is an important marketing tool for us," Susan says.

Now, 15 percent of Fall Creek's revenues flow from the tasting room, where
visitors can sample wines that have won more than 500 awards over the past two
decades.

The tasting room and alcohol sales are highly visible aspects of a winery. Less
obvious ones center on adjustments to Mother Nature.

Grapes deteriorate quickly after being picked, and heat speeds that
deterioration. That makes August in Texas a problematic time for picking.

The Aulers tried harvesting earlier and earlier in an effort to beat the
thermometer. Finally they concluded the only way around it was to pick the
grapes at night, a move that has boosted the quality of their products.

The heat, though, is a minor problem compared with two devastating losses that
hit Fall Creek.

In 1989, temperatures dropped below zero in a freeze that killed all of their
vines. They replanted and, in a major innovation, installed a new trellis system
to support the vines.

Then, two years ago, just when the grapes were going like gangbusters, the
Aulers lost all their vines again.

'Fighting a losing battle'

In 1997-98, the Aulers began seeing every winemaker's worst nightmare: Pierce's
disease.

The devastating infection is caused by destructive bacteria carried by a type of
leafhopper known as a sharpshooter.

It occurs in areas with mild winters, including California's Napa and Sonoma
Valleys, the premier wine-producing region in the United States.

In severe infestations, the only choice left to growers is to pull up the vines.

"By the end of 2001," Ed says, "it was obvious we were fighting a losing
battle."

There was no effective treatment, so they ripped 65 acres of vines out of the
ground. And they have replanted only 5 acres.

The Aulers do not plan to re-establish the bulk of the vineyard until there is a
solution to Pierce's disease, which Ed believes could come in as little as two
to three years. The most promising avenue, he says, is genetically altering the
bacteria and using it to inoculate the vines, much as humans were inoculated
against smallpox.

The most puzzling aspect of Pierce's disease is that it can kill one vineyard
while leaving another nearby untouched.

"Fortunately, our neighbors' vineyards haven't been affected," he says. "That's
where the lion's share of our grapes come from."

So, in a common practice, the Aulers will buy the bulk of their grapes -- both
for current production and future expansion.

What's next for the winery

Change is in the air at Fall Creek.

"Our goal is to double Fall Creek production. That will give us the ability to
be a significant participant in 12 to 15 states," Ed says. Current revenues for
Fall Creek, according to Dun and Bradstreet estimates, are $2.6 million.

In addition to doubling that, the Aulers have launched a second label they
believe holds great potential for expansion. That line, Twin Springs, features
less expensive, sweeter wines that could fill another niche in the marketplace.

Ed intends to concentrate on production and marketing in the next few years,
leaving most of the grape growing to others.

Even if there is a cure for Pierce's disease, he says, he will not replant all
the previous acreage. Instead, he says, "we will dedicate the vineyard here to
Meritus-style wines."

Meritus is a third label under the Fall Creek umbrella. Currently it features
one wine: a premium red blend (at $30 a bottle) that was released for only the
second time last month.

The Aulers also want to add new varietals, including tempranillo, shiraz and
malbec, to the Fall Creek lineup, as well as reintroducing carnelian, an
almost-extinct grape that brought them national recognition before it was killed
locally in the '89 freeze.

Ultimately, though, it's not the number of products but the quality of them
compared with the price that counts, Ed says.

"For the mainstream," he says, "you have to be in the quality-value game."

In that game, Fall Creek is a player. It was the first Texas winery to have a
product -- the sauvignon blanc -- selected by the Wine Spectator as a "best
buy."

The goal, the Aulers say, is to add more Fall Creek to that wine list.

(from box)

Texas wine industry*

Wineries: 46

Total economic impact: $103 million

Employment: 1,000

Direct and indirect taxes: $6 million

Acres in production: 2,900

Total grape production: 4,400 tons

Estimated crop value: $3.87 million

*For 2002

Source: Texas Wine Marketing Research Institute at Texas Tech University

(from box)

Fall Creek Vineyards

First vines planted: 1975

First vintage: 1979

Winery opened: 1983

Acres of grapes in production: 65 trellised, 5 planted

Cases of wine produced: 40,000

Types of wine: 18

Labels: Fall Creek, Twin Springs, Meritus

Market: Texas, Nevada, Colorado, California, Massachusetts, New York,
Washington, D.C., Virginia, Louisiana, New Mexico, England, Switzerland

Source: Ed Auler, owner

(from box)

For Austin sippers

Here is a sampling of Fall Creek wines and prices available at the H-E-B at
Hancock Center:

Chardonnay $9.79

Merlot $9.79

Johannesburg riesling $7.79

Sauvignon blanc $8.79

Granite reserve (a red blend) $8.79

White zinfandel $5.89

Chenin blanc $5.89

Granite blush $5.89

Cascade (a white blend) $7.79

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Hill Country's soil and weather make Fall Creek Vineyards a good
place to grow cabernet sauvignon grapes and other varieties. // Inside the aging
room are wines that could join Fall Creek's ranks of award winners. The room's
doors are from Louis Pasteur Hospital in Paris. // Fall Creek owners Ed and
Susan Auler have helped establish the reputation of Texas wines, but they've
faced their share of setbacks, including a plant disease that decimated their
vineyard. // Opening a tasting room where visitors can sample wines was an
important step. Today, the tasting room generates 15 percent of Fall Creek's
revenue. // Today, the grapes bound for Fall Creek's fermenting room come mostly
from other sources. The winery wants to concentrate on production and marketing
instead of growing.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               39 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 18, 2003, Monday

ACC should stick to budget

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 562 words


Austin Community College trustees, newly flush with money from the higher taxes
the community voted to give them for the school, are still wrangling over how to
spend it.

ACC President Richard Fonte has offered a $111.4 million budget that includes a
3.5 percent raise for all employees and puts the faculty on track for
market-average pay in three years. The board already has approved $137,000 to
pay for health insurance for part-time employees who lost their state subsidy
this year.

Fonte's proposal is spare, but includes new sections to help students. It also
has cuts and reductions to balance a budget hit hard by reduced state funding.
Yet several trustees are contemplating greater salary increases for faculty and
staff, changes that could cost more than $1.4 million and force the
administration to cut more programs and services.

Those expensive budget increases would be out of line. When ACC asked voters to
nearly double their taxes to help the school, they cited the need for more
classes and better facilities. Taxpayers certainly didn't expect their money to
immediately go for outsized raises for faculty and staff

Faculty, full time and part time, did help sell the tax increase to voters and
they deserve to reap some of the benefits. But a 3.5 percent raise next year
plus additional raises over the next two years seems both reasonable and
prudent. In three years, faculty pay should be on par with that of other
community college instructors in Texas.

Some trustees want to give additional raises to the part-time faculty, some to
the classified and profession-technical instructors and some to all faculty
members and employees this year. Fonte is resisting because he understands he
would have to cut services, classes and programs.

Full-time faculty members feel a 3.5 percent pay raise is too little and
part-time faculty members think they should get higher raises because as a group
they are farther below the market average. But in today's economic climate, a
3.5 percent across-the-board raise would be celebrated by most employees in
Austin.

Some trustees seem to be responding more to in-house pressure than being good
stewards of the taxpayers' money. Asking the administration to find more than $1
million in order to give all faculty members a raise above that proposed by
Fonte is not a wise policy.

Board members should have the good sense to ignore the more outlandish proposals
and stick closer to the administration's budget. Any raises above that offered
by Fonte likely will have to come from classes and other student services that
the taxpayers supported with their vote.

Board Chairman Rafael Quintanilla said he wants the trustees to stay close to
Fonte's proposed budget in their deliberations. "I don't want to make
significant changes in it," he said.

Nevertheless, Quintanilla expects that motions to give additional raises will
arise. The nine-member board is divided over the budget and often evenly so
because Trustee Beverly Watts Davis, who now works in Washington, is frequently
absent. So no outcome is assured, though the budget must be approved this month.

As they take up the budget, board members should keep in mind the taxpayers
whose trust they sought and whose money they are spending.  Trust is not easily
won nor lightly kept, but it can be quickly lost.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               40 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 26, 2003, Tuesday

Susan Dell will close shop, shift to direct sales

BYLINE: Leigh-Ann Jackson, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 323 words


"Direct from Dell" soon could refer to evening dresses, not just laptop
computers.

Susan Dell, wife of the computer company chairman, will close her luxury
clothing boutique in the Davenport Village shopping center in January.

But her company, Susan Dell Inc., will continue to design and make clothes, and
President Julia Hansen said Monday that the company is considering emphasizing
the direct sales approach to sell the wares, which range in price from about
$200 to $6,500.

That's how Dell began after launching the company in 1997, selling through trunk
shows at specialty stores and a Web site, according to Women's Wear Daily. The
store opened two years later.

"We're in the process of putting together something different from what we've
done in the past, and it's different from the way the rest of the (fashion)
industry does it," Hansen said. "We're reviewing what decisions would be good as
the market and climate change."

The fall 2003 collection is the last line Austin shoppers will be able to
purchase at the 4-year-old shop in West Lake Hills. Hansen said the decision was
made at the New York headquarters a few months ago but declined to speak at
length about the reason for shuttering the shop or the company's strategy for
the new year.

Although the shopping experience will change for Dell fans, the brand's
merchandise -- which includes floor-length gowns and pantsuits, as well as
casual separates and seasonal wear -- will remain steady.

"Nothing will be very different," Hansen said. "Susan Dell represents modern,
time-challenged, international and professional women. We want to be sure we're
addressing that woman on a global scale, but what that entails specifically, I'm
not at liberty to say."

Dell has a degree in fashion merchandising and had designed clothes for friends
for more than a decade before formally going into business.

ljackson@statesman.com; 445-3974

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Susan Dell will shut her luxury clothing boutique in West Lake Hills in
January, but her company still will design and make clothes.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               41 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 31, 2003, Sunday

The bitter price of a better life
Central Texans were thrilled with the Alcoa jobs that eased poverty and remade
Rockdale . . . but then the asbestos made people sick

BYLINE: Patrick Beach, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 3937 words


ROCKDALE -- A man working the fields never got ahead. Not in those days, not
ever. So, growing up in the middle of the last century in nearby Robertson
County, Floyd Cavitt knew he wouldn't finish school, knew he'd be poor. "I had
to help bring bread to the table after ninth grade," he said. "That's the way we
survived."

Beginning in 1952, the Aluminum Company of America changed lives for the better
for Cavitt and thousands of other working people in a nine-county area
surrounding this town. Alcoa had bought up the land that held lignite coal and
was building an aluminum plant and mine, pumping $100 million worth of materials
and labor and hundreds of steady jobs into the local economy. Rockdale, about 60
miles northeast of Austin, was suddenly booming in time with the rest of the
country.

Today, the town of about 5,400 people and residents in the surrounding area
still rely on the 1,760 jobs at the plant. Alcoa's backers call it a corporate
neighbor without parallel.

But asbestos exposure and subsequent litigation, most of it involving workers at
Alcoa's Rockdale Operations and their families, have proved to be the price some
people paid for a job. Cavitt, his wife, Bernice, and hundreds more have been
caught on a dragline that has raked this area for slightly more than 50 years.

It has made men worry about their increasing difficulty to draw or release a
breath. It has brought a kind of rare cancer that is a swift and vicious death
sentence. It has made women and men widows and widowers before their time and
made neighbors who've attended the same church for decades into adversaries who
eye one another across a courtroom.

A survey of court documents in the Milam County seat at Cameron shows that since
late 1991, roughly 1,100 people -- about 800 of them workers at the plant here,
their spouses and heirs -- have sued, claiming that they or their loved ones
have been harmed by asbestos fibers they inhaled at the plant or carried home on
their clothes. Some of the claims say the company knew that asbestos was a
stealthy killer and was grossly negligent of its own workers' basic safety.

Plaintiffs' lawyers argue that it wasn't until 1996 that an extensive company
asbestos awareness and protection plan was put into effect. But it's not
accurate to claim that Alcoa completely ignored the threat, they say. As of June
1985, the company was regularly screening 521 employees at the Rockdale site,
according to company documents, far more than at any other Alcoa facility
listed.

Corporate officials responded to a detailed query with little comment.

"A lot of this is being driven by plaintiffs' attorneys," said Kevin Lowery, a
spokesman at Alcoa's corporate base in Pittsburgh. "Since it's being driven by
them, the smartest thing to do would be to allow this process to play itself out
in the proper venues in the courts. We will allow it to go down that path versus
commenting on it publicly."

Because the lawsuits typically name dozens of defendants, claims can take years
to settle or, in rare instances, come to trial. The pronounced incidence of
asbestos case filings in Milam County rose in the mid-1990s and peaked in 2000.
Fewer than a dozen asbestos injury trials have been held in the county, although
almost all involved multiple victims, and all but two of them have been
victories for the plaintiffs. From a review of case files and interviews with
lawyers, it's a conservative estimate that many tens of millions of dollars have
been paid in confidential settlements and at trial.

Variations on this scenario have played out all over America in recent years: A
poor, frequently rural area wins a major employer in an industry in which
materials containing asbestos fibers are ubiquitous. Companies downplay or are
slow to realize asbestos hazards. Decades after being first exposed, the workers
get sick, and they or their survivors sue.

To stop litigation across the country -- total existing and estimated future
asbestos claims have swelled to almost $300 billion, involving hundreds of
thousands of workers in myriad industries -- the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee
in July approved a proposed national settlement that could produce the biggest
payout since the tobacco settlement in the mid-1990s and bring an end to pending
and future claims. A vote before the full Senate has not been scheduled.

The volume of asbestos lawsuits has created, according to pro-business groups, a
legal crisis that has badly burdened the nation's courts and led at least 67
companies to seek bankruptcy protection. On the other side are 27 million
Americans believed to have been significantly exposed to asbestos between 1940
and 1975.

The booming business that litigators once were doing in Milam County coincided
with an explosion in the number of cases filed in Texas, which, according to a
2002 Rand Institute for Civil Justice study, was one of five states that
collectively accounted for just 9 percent of cases filed before 1998 and 66
percent of new filings between 1998 and 2000.

The study also found that "over time, cases migrated to jurisdictions favorable
to plaintiffs." Partly because of quirks in the rules dictating how proper venue
is established, Milam County in the late '90s was such a place, drawing
plaintiffs from as far away as Wales.

Region transformed

George Sessions Perry, who was born here in 1910 and became the first Texan to
win the National Book Award 32 years later for "Hold Autumn in Your Hand,"
captured in his novel a little of what Rockdale might have been like before
Alcoa. The novel describes a landscape familiar to Perry: the fine line between
bucolic and boring, the palpable lack of opportunity.

Alcoa changed that. A coal mine would provide the fuel for the power plant that
would supply the juice necessary to process aluminum, and Rockdale evermore
would be better for it. Perry wrote about Rockdale in an article in the Saturday
Evening Post headlined, "The Town Where it Rains Money."

"What happens," the introductory text asked, "to a village of 2,000 population
when a huge company suddenly starts pouring dollars into it -- a hundred million
at a whop?"

The company offered civic and infrastructure improvements. One of them was a new
pool. The company split the $80,000 cost with the city, and that was where, in
the summer of 1953, Cline Freiling was doing trick dives, showing off for girls.

That was also where 19-year-old Marie Cuba first laid eyes on the 23-year-old
Freiling, who would become her husband. He and she got married, and he started
working at the Alcoa plant.

Decades later, after coming home for years with asbestos dust so thick his skin
and clothes were black with it, Freiling found himself short of breath. They'd
moved out to their dream home, on a country road so curved it seemed designed to
make drivers slow down and take in the scenery. Every night, the Freilings would
watch the sun set over the pasture where they let a few cattle run.

When he got the diagnosis in May 1999 and learned that it was a death sentence
of mesothelioma, a swift and exceptionally painful killer cancer that in
virtually all cases is linked to asbestos, he asked the doctor if the outcome
might have been different if he'd been diagnosed earlier. The doctor said no.

Freiling talked to a lawyer, Jill Kuswa, who worked for Waters & Kraus, a Dallas
firm that specialized in representing asbestos plaintiffs. The firm was doing
enough business in Milam County that it had a little office in Cameron. Kuswa
drafted a lawsuit against the company that had given Freiling a living wage for
most of his working life. The lawsuit targeted dozens of manufacturers of
asbestos-containing products as well.

Judge in the middle

Charles Lance, the state district judge who presided over the majority of the
cases, including Freiling's, until 2000, lost a primary election in part because
of a backlash against the perception that his court was biased in favor of
plaintiffs and against Alcoa and other defendants.

Lance's acceptance of large campaign contributions from lawyers outside the area
-- several contributors, including one from Buffalo, N.Y., chipped in $6,000 --
was an issue in the campaign, as was Lance's unusual public stance on the
district attorney's prosecution of a criminal case.

Lance lost the primary by an almost 2-1 ratio, but before he left office,
Houston lawyer Dick DeGuerin filed a motion on behalf of defense lawyers asking
that Lance be disqualified or recuse himself from hearing about 40 pending
asbestos cases. The motion accused Lance of "flagrant bias and prejudice" and of
improperly speaking to a jury deliberating an asbestos case. The judge did
recuse himself after the motion was filed in October 2000.

The episode is "not the most pleasant part of my life to recall, no," said
Lance, who, after his primary defeat, worked for a time for Waters & Kraus and
now is in private practice in Cameron.

"I think I happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time," Lance said. "I
was trying to do my job the best way I saw it. You take an oath, and I took that
very seriously. It's not my job to advocate for one side or another.

"I called them as I saw them and ruled on motions and objections fairly, and I
think the appellate courts approved what I did," Lance said. "Things didn't go
(the defendants' way) all the time because they weren't right all the time. A
lot of it is sour grapes. They had bad facts and bad law. If you lose, it's
easier to blame the judge."

Lance also said he had doubts, in retrospect, about accepting contributions from
members of the asbestos plaintiffs' bar.

"I guess you can always second-guess yourself into oblivion," Lance said. "Do
you not take contributions when the other side has millions?"

The motion to recuse wasn't the first attempt to remove the asbestos cases from
Milam County. An earlier, separate motion filed by defense lawyers also included
affidavits from community leaders, among them Milam County Commissioner V.W.
Hauk, who sided with defense lawyers in claiming that the legal climate made a
fair asbestos trial impossible. Hauk worked on the construction of the Alcoa
plant more than 50 years ago. He was diagnosed with mesothelioma last fall and
filed a lawsuit in Milam County soon after. He died in late March.

Center of the storm

In the first year of Dwight Eisenhower's presidency, Floyd Cavitt came in from
the fields and went to work in Alcoa's pot rooms, huge hangarlike buildings
where the superheated creation of aluminum happened. He remembers how, when
relining the melting pots, they would take a jackhammer to break up the old
asbestos lining, and dust would go everywhere. Every three days at their home in
Hearne, Cavitt would give his dusty work clothes to his wife, Bernice, who would
shake them out and put them in the washer.

It wasn't until the '90s, when the Alcoa workers union, United Steel Workers of
America Local 4595, brought in the X-ray machines and the lawyers, and the
Cameron Herald started carrying full-page ads for asbestos screenings, that
workers realized the extent of the problem. Asbestos products were all over that
plant: in blown-on insulation, pot linings, pipe coverings and heat-proof
gloves. Now men were getting sick. Cavitt, who had retired in 1987, went ahead
with the test and found out that he had asbestos in his lungs.

The Cavitts sued in 1992. Nearly five years later, Floyd Cavitt and five of his
co-workers went to trial in Lance's court. They and the co-workers who would
follow them into court claimed that they had been exposed on the job and
developed everything from mesothelioma and other cancers to asbestosis and more.
Cavitt's lawyer had sent along a few small checks from companies that chose to
settle. One of the plaintiffs in Cavitt's case was already dead of lung cancer
by then, and the men and their wives won a $4.31 million judgment.

Under Texas law, an injured worker's redress is typically a worker's
compensation claim. Workers can't successfully sue their employers unless they
prove that those employers were grossly negligent. Although Alcoa has
confidentially settled scores of cases, the more common targets are the
manufacturers of asbestos-containing products, in part because the legal
standard is lower than proving egregious conduct on the part of Alcoa. And
that's where Milam County becomes part of a larger American narrative.

Nationwide, the Rand Corp. survey estimates that 2.4 million more claims could
be filed in coming years, at a potential cost of between $210 billon and $300
billion. The proposed national settlement estimated at $155 billion represents a
substantial potential savings for American businesses even if, as proposed,
businesses and insurers would largely foot the bill.

If a settlement comes, it won't be soon enough for Mark Humble, a Cameron
attorney who emerged from semiretirement to represent asbestos defendants after
running into a defense lawyer at the courthouse who asked Humble for advice.
"What he told me caught my attention," said Humble, adding that he saw a "gross
imbalance" in the way plaintiffs and defendants were being treated.  At one
time, Humble represented 23 companies. All but eight of those are out of
business or operating under Chapter 11 protection now.

"I'm a small-town guy, but I'm sitting here watching the dismantling of a
significant part of the American economic engine," Humble said.

Timothy Cappolino, a plaintiffs' attorney in the Cameron firm of Cappolino, Dodd
& Krebs, which takes only local cases, offers an alternative perspective. "It's
always about companies being bankrupted," he said. "I never hear about these
people dying horrible deaths. To me, it's a crusade. What happened to these
people was wrong."

A confluence of laws, rules and lawyerly word of mouth causes certain locations
to attract asbestos plaintiffs' lawyers, and that's what happened in Milam
County, where enough claims are on file to number roughly one for every 10
voting-age residents. Alcoa workers from Point Comfort, Texas, to Stanly County,
N.C., have sued here.

Because of rules since changed by tort reform, other plaintiffs had more tenuous
connections to Alcoa: claiming that workers used the company's aluminum products
with asbestos insulation, for example, and that the company knew or should have
known of the danger. Plaintiffs' lawyers argue that selecting favorable
locations is simply a part of vigorously advocating for their clients; defense
lawyers claim that the practice is "forum manipulation" that denies their
clients their rights.

'A virgin people'

Nevertheless, Milam County's time as an asbestos litigation magnet has passed.
Waters & Kraus is no longer filing new claims in Milam County and has farmed its
cases out to Cappolino, Dodd & Krebs. Andy Waters of Waters & Kraus said his
firm decided to pull out in part to focus on the most serious cases that are
most deserving of the largest sums. Also, the climate change that Lance's ouster
signaled influenced the decision, he said.

The pace of asbestos mass tort litigation has appreciably slowed under Judge Ed
Magre, who replaced Lance, but new complaints are filed every month, many of
them bearing the signature of Richard Dodd, who counts several relatives as
victims of asbestos exposure at Alcoa.

"If Alcoa had done the right thing, we wouldn't be having this conversation,"
Dodd said. "The truth is pretty damn powerful."

Waters is equally harsh. He speaks of the company as "a strong presence" in the
county and says Alcoa knew that asbestos was lethal decades before it informed
its workers.

Speaking about internal Alcoa documents his firm found during the discovery
process, Waters said: "This is the strongest evidence of the early knowledge of
the hazards. We've looked at 50 or 60 companies, and Alcoa is the worst."

However, those documents show that Rockdale did conduct a survey of
asbestos-containing items and whether they generated dust in 1978. By 1996, when
Rockdale had an Asbestos Management Plan complete with additional health and
safety information for workers, much of the asbestos material that had
originally been at the site had already been abated. Nevertheless, plaintiffs'
lawyers say the delays killed people and were plainly avoidable. The industrial
hygiene literature available to Alcoa was full of warnings about the hazards of
asbestos decades earlier, they said.

Jeff Mundy, an Austin lawyer who has represented plaintiffs and defendants in
asbestos cases, said: "The State of Texas passed regulations beginning in 1958
that listed asbestos as a potentially hazardous substance that employers were
supposed to protect the workers against. In this situation, that didn't happen.
Everybody that was running any kind of industrial facility just had to know
about those things."

Many Alcoa supporters here remain vexed over what they see as perpetual attacks
from federal and state regulators who have fined Alcoa for air pollution and,
more recently, opponents of the company's plan to begin operations on the
portion of the mine in Bastrop and Lee counties, which will keep the facility
running for 30 more years. The litigation is merely one theater of a multifront
war, they say. But most of those who have sued say they did it not to punish but
to pay their medical bills and provide for their families in the event they're
dead or too sick to work.

"We were a virgin people," said Fred Wilhite of Rockdale, a former Alcoa worker
and asbestos victim who sued Alcoa and others and won confidential settlements.
"We didn't know the danger, and they didn't tell us. There was good, and there
was bad, and there was ugly. Alcoa picked out a good site. They had people here
who weren't going to ask questions."

Like many, Wilhite feels a mixture of anger at what he claims working at Alcoa
did to his health and gratitude for what it did for his community.

"Alcoa provided fulfillment of the hopes and dreams of many, many people,"
Wilhite said. "Women could get their hair fixed and buy store-bought clothes.
Before, we were just poor. Our schools got better. They provide medical. When
Alcoa came, we got Blue Cross. They provided for the people who worked there.
The children lived well and dressed well.

"Nobody's trying to break Alcoa, but we're not a virgin people now," said
Wilhite, who once played trumpet in the Army band and now wears a mask tethered
to an oxygen tank at his home here. "There are people dying, people you won't be
seeing by the end of the year."

Cavitts go to court

Two years after Floyd Cavitt's trial, he and his wife were back in Lance's
court, this time suing Floyd's former employer and others. The lawyers said
washing Floyd's asbestos-laden dusty clothes had given Bernice lung cancer. The
doctors said it would kill her.

The defense posited other hypotheses. They said it was cigarettes. Alternately,
they argued that if asbestos was the cause of Bernice's cancer, she could have
been exposed elsewhere. Asbestos wasn't just ubiquitous in places of heavy
industry; it was once the most common material in insulation.

The jury awarded $2.11 million to the Cavitts and found Alcoa to have been
grossly negligent of "actual conscious indifference to the rights, safety or
welfare" of the persons affected, to quote from the instructions to the trial
jury. In ordinary gross negligence claims, the plaintiff must already be dead, a
requirement that does not apply in household exposure cases.

The single highest settlement in Milam County is believed to be $7.2 million for
a retired Navy machinist and power company worker with mesothelioma. Alcoa was a
named defendant in that suit because attorneys alleged that the worker was
exposed on the job while using a non-asbestos-containing Alcoa product designed
to be used with asbestos. Attorneys argued that using the two products together
released asbestos fibers and that Alcoa knew or should have known of the hazard.

But such comparatively large sums are relatively rare, and a review of available
court records shows that Milam County juries are loath to award punitive damages
that have sent awards to stratospheric levels in other places. After the lawyers
take their fee -- up to 40 percent -- and deduct expenses, there isn't a whole
lot left for survivors such as Floyd Cavitt. And some of his former co-workers
would say that's as it should be: Going after Alcoa was taking food out of their
mouths, they say. Neighbors cluck about the big-screen TVs and Cadillac
Escalades those who have sued treat themselves to when the money starts coming
in.

The cancer took its time to kill Bernice Emma Wilson Cavitt. She lived for seven
years, and in her last few months she couldn't do much but lay in pain.

"I know people got to die of something," she would say to Floyd, "but it's hard
to die of something you got from the job you were doing."

Bernice Cavitt died Oct. 25. She and Floyd had been married 52 years.

"It's rough," Floyd Cavitt said. "I'm telling you it's rough. Money don't mean
nothing to me. Money doesn't replace her no kind of way."

End of an era

Betty Robertson, the clerk of court in Milam County, is pleased and relieved
that she and her small staff are no longer overwhelmed. The volume of new
asbestos complaints has ebbed today from what it was a few years ago. With
sometimes 10 or more plaintiffs and three or four dozen defendants in a typical
action, files in a single case could run for yards. Worse, the asbestos
litigation boom in Milam County coincided with a major renovation of the 1892
courthouse.

Partly because of the caseload and partly because of the construction, most of
the asbestos files were moved to be stored in the second floor of a downtown
storefront. Stacked end to end, the files on the shelves would easily run the
length of a football field.

"It's like a bad headache that won't go away," said Robertson, herself the widow
of a former Alcoa man who died of emphysema, not asbestos disease. "You learn to
live with it."

But there are widows and widowers who wonder how they can go on living without
their husbands and wives. They still wonder who is to blame.

"Cline's dreams were robbed from him," Marie Freiling said, "and me too. I keep
thinking he's going to walk through the gate. I'll open the door and say,
'Honey, I'm here!' "

Then she realizes that there's no one there. That tonight, again, she'll watch
the sunset alone.

pbeach@statesman.com; 445-3603

Stories from other Alcoa plaintiffs

Sammie Lee Chopp

Sammie Lee Chopp earned $200 in his last year of sharecropping before he went to
work at Alcoa's Rockdale Operations in 1953. Years later, his wife, Willie Mae
Chopp, died of lung cancer allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos fibers on
his clothes. Chopp sued and won settlements but lost at trial earlier this year
against Quigley Corp., which made insulated plaster and cement containing
asbestos, the sole defendant named in the suit that chose to proceed to trial.

Joe Belicek

Joe Belicek holds a plaque he received for his service at Alcoa's Rockdale
Operations, where he worked from 1964 until early this year. Belicek and his
wife, Faye, filed suit in Milam County alleging that they suffer from
asbestosis: Joe from being exposed on the job, Faye from washing his clothes.
They have settled with some defendants. 'I kind of feel like they done us
dirty,' he said of his former employer.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Years of work in Alcoa's pot rooms, where aluminum is created, left
Fred Wilhite of Rockdale with an asbestos-related lung condition known as
pleural plaquing. He once played the trumpet in the Army band but now wears an
oxygen mask most of the day. 'We didn't know the danger, and they didn't tell
us,' he said of his former employer. // Marie Freiling is still coming to terms
with the death of her husband, Cline. He died from an asbestos-related cancer
called mesothelioma. // Alcoa's pot rooms are hangarlike buildings where
aluminum is created in superheated conditions. In the 1950s, the lining of the
melting pots contained asbestos, and they were occasionally broken up when
workers relined the pots, sending asbestos fibers into the air. // The volume of
new asbestos complaints has declined lately, but the files on the shelves would
easily run the length of a football field if they were stacked end to end. //
After Floyd Cavitt's wife, Bernice, was found to have lung cancer, a jury said
Alcoa had been g

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               42 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 31, 2003, Sunday

The bitter price of a better life
Central Texans were thrilled with the Alcoa jobs that eased poverty and remade
Rockdale . . . but then the asbestos made people sick

BYLINE: Patrick Beach, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 3940 words


ROCKDALE -- A man working the fields never got ahead. Not in those days, not
ever. So, growing up in the middle of the last century in nearby Robertson
County, Floyd Cavitt knew he wouldn't finish school, knew he'd be poor. "I had
to help bring bread to the table after ninth grade," he said. "That's the way we
survived."

Beginning in 1952, the Aluminum Company of America changed lives for the better
for Cavitt and thousands of other working people in a nine-county area
surrounding this town. Alcoa had bought up the land that held lignite coal and
was building an aluminum plant and mine, pumping $100 million worth of materials
and labor and hundreds of steady jobs into the local economy. Rockdale, about 60
miles northeast of Austin, was suddenly booming in time with the rest of the
country.

Today, the town of about 5,400 people and residents in the surrounding area
still rely on the 1,760 jobs at the plant. Alcoa's backers call it a corporate
neighbor without parallel.

But asbestos exposure and subsequent litigation, most of it involving workers at
Alcoa's Rockdale Operations and their families, have proved to be the price some
people paid for a job. Cavitt, his wife, Bernice, and hundreds more have been
caught on a dragline that has raked this area for slightly more than 50 years.

It has made men worry about their increasing difficulty to draw or release a
breath. It has brought a kind of rare cancer that is a swift and vicious death
sentence. It has made women and men widows and widowers before their time and
made neighbors who've attended the same church for decades into adversaries who
eye one another across a courtroom.

A survey of court documents in the Milam County seat at Cameron shows that since
late 1991, roughly 1,100 people -- about 800 of them workers at the plant here,
their spouses and heirs -- have sued, claiming that they or their loved ones
have been harmed by asbestos fibers they inhaled at the plant or carried home on
their clothes. Some of the claims say the company knew that asbestos was a
stealthy killer and was grossly negligent of its own workers' basic safety.

Plaintiffs' lawyers argue that it wasn't until 1996 that an extensive company
asbestos awareness and protection plan was put into effect. But it's not
accurate to claim that Alcoa completely ignored the threat, they say. As of June
1985, the company was regularly screening 521 employees at the Rockdale site,
according to company documents, far more than at any other Alcoa facility
listed.

Corporate officials responded to a detailed query with little comment.

"A lot of this is being driven by plaintiffs' attorneys," said Kevin Lowery, a
spokesman at Alcoa's corporate base in Pittsburgh. "Since it's being driven by
them, the smartest thing to do would be to allow this process to play itself out
in the proper venues in the courts. We will allow it to go down that path versus
commenting on it publicly."

Because the lawsuits typically name dozens of defendants, claims can take years
to settle or, in rare instances, come to trial. The pronounced incidence of
asbestos case filings in Milam County rose in the mid-1990s and peaked in 2000.
Fewer than a dozen asbestos injury trials have been held in the county, although
almost all involved multiple victims, and all but two of them have been
victories for the plaintiffs. From a review of case files and interviews with
lawyers, it's a conservative estimate that many tens of millions of dollars have
been paid in confidential settlements and at trial.

Variations on this scenario have played out all over America in recent years: A
poor, frequently rural area wins a major employer in an industry in which
materials containing asbestos fibers are ubiquitous. Companies downplay or are
slow to realize asbestos hazards. Decades after being first exposed, the workers
get sick, and they or their survivors sue.

To stop litigation across the country -- total existing and estimated future
asbestos claims have swelled to almost $300 billion, involving hundreds of
thousands of workers in myriad industries -- the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee
in July approved a proposed national settlement that could produce the biggest
payout since the tobacco settlement in the mid-1990s and bring an end to pending
and future claims. A vote before the full Senate has not been scheduled.

The volume of asbestos lawsuits has created, according to pro-business groups, a
legal crisis that has badly burdened the nation's courts and led at least 67
companies to seek bankruptcy protection. On the other side are 27 million
Americans believed to have been significantly exposed to asbestos between 1940
and 1975.

The booming business that litigators once were doing in Milam County coincided
with an explosion in the number of cases filed in Texas, which, according to a
2002 Rand Institute for Civil Justice study, was one of five states that
collectively accounted for just 9 percent of cases filed before 1998 and 66
percent of new filings between 1998 and 2000.

The study also found that "over time, cases migrated to jurisdictions favorable
to plaintiffs." Partly because of quirks in the rules dictating how proper venue
is established, Milam County in the late '90s was such a place, drawing
plaintiffs from as far away as Wales.

Region transformed

George Sessions Perry, who was born here in 1910 and became the first Texan to
win the National Book Award 32 years later for "Hold Autumn in Your Hand,"
captured in his novel a little of what Rockdale might have been like before
Alcoa. The novel describes a landscape familiar to Perry: the fine line between
bucolic and boring, the palpable lack of opportunity.

Alcoa changed that. A coal mine would provide the fuel for the power plant that
would supply the juice necessary to process aluminum, and Rockdale evermore
would be better for it. Perry wrote about Rockdale in an article in the Saturday
Evening Post headlined, "The Town Where it Rains Money."

"What happens," the introductory text asked, "to a village of 2,000 population
when a huge company suddenly starts pouring dollars into it -- a hundred million
at a whop?"

The company offered civic and infrastructure improvements. One of them was a new
pool. The company split the $80,000 cost with the city, and that was where, in
the summer of 1953, Cline Freiling was doing trick dives, showing off for girls.

That was also where 19-year-old Marie Cuba first laid eyes on the 23-year-old
Freiling, who would become her husband. He and she got married, and he started
working at the Alcoa plant.

Decades later, after coming home for years with asbestos dust so thick his skin
and clothes were black with it, Freiling found himself short of breath. They'd
moved out to their dream home, on a country road so curved it seemed designed to
make drivers slow down and take in the scenery. Every night, the Freilings would
watch the sun set over the pasture where they let a few cattle run.

When he got the diagnosis in May 1999 and learned that it was a death sentence
of mesothelioma, a swift and exceptionally painful killer cancer that in
virtually all cases is linked to asbestos, he asked the doctor if the outcome
might have been different if he'd been diagnosed earlier. The doctor said no.

Freiling talked to a lawyer, Jill Kuswa, who worked for Waters & Kraus, a Dallas
firm that specialized in representing asbestos plaintiffs. The firm was doing
enough business in Milam County that it had a little office in Cameron. Kuswa
drafted a lawsuit against the company that had given Freiling a living wage for
most of his working life. The lawsuit targeted dozens of manufacturers of
asbestos-containing products as well.

Judge in the middle

Charles Lance, the state district judge who presided over the majority of the
cases, including Freiling's, until 2000, lost a primary election in part because
of a backlash against the perception that his court was biased in favor of
plaintiffs and against Alcoa and other defendants.

Lance's acceptance of large campaign contributions from lawyers outside the area
-- several contributors, including one from Buffalo, N.Y., chipped in $6,000 --
was an issue in the campaign, as was Lance's unusual public stance on the
district attorney's prosecution of a criminal case.

Lance lost the primary by an almost 2-1 ratio, but before he left office,
Houston lawyer Dick DeGuerin filed a motion on behalf of defense lawyers asking
that Lance be disqualified or recuse himself from hearing about 40 pending
asbestos cases. The motion accused Lance of "flagrant bias and prejudice" and of
improperly speaking to a jury deliberating an asbestos case. The judge did
recuse himself after the motion was filed in October 2000.

The episode is "not the most pleasant part of my life to recall, no," said
Lance, who, after his primary defeat, worked for a time for Waters & Kraus and
now is in private practice in Cameron.

"I think I happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time," Lance said. "I
was trying to do my job the best way I saw it. You take an oath, and I took that
very seriously. It's not my job to advocate for one side or another.

"I called them as I saw them and ruled on motions and objections fairly, and I
think the appellate courts approved what I did," Lance said. "Things didn't go
(the defendants' way) all the time because they weren't right all the time. A
lot of it is sour grapes. They had bad facts and bad law. If you lose, it's
easier to blame the judge."

Lance also said he had doubts, in retrospect, about accepting contributions from
members of the asbestos plaintiffs' bar.

"I guess you can always second-guess yourself into oblivion," Lance said. "Do
you not take contributions when the other side has millions?"

The motion to recuse wasn't the first attempt to remove the asbestos cases from
Milam County. An earlier, separate motion filed by defense lawyers also included
affidavits from community leaders, among them Milam County Commissioner V.W.
Hauk, who sided with defense lawyers in claiming that the legal climate made a
fair asbestos trial impossible. Hauk worked on the construction of the Alcoa
plant more than 50 years ago. He was diagnosed with mesothelioma last fall and
filed a lawsuit in Milam County soon after. He died in late March.

Center of the storm

In the first year of Dwight Eisenhower's presidency, Floyd Cavitt came in from
the fields and went to work in Alcoa's pot rooms, huge hangarlike buildings
where the superheated creation of aluminum happened. He remembers how, when
relining the melting pots, they would take a jackhammer to break up the old
asbestos lining, and dust would go everywhere. Every three days at their home in
Hearne, Cavitt would give his dusty work clothes to his wife, Bernice, who would
shake them out and put them in the washer.

It wasn't until the '90s, when the Alcoa workers union, United Steel Workers of
America Local 4595, brought in the X-ray machines and the lawyers, and the
Cameron Herald started carrying full-page ads for asbestos screenings, that
workers realized the extent of the problem. Asbestos products were all over that
plant: in blown-on insulation, pot linings, pipe coverings and heat-proof
gloves. Now men were getting sick. Cavitt, who had retired in 1987, went ahead
with the test and found out that he had asbestos in his lungs.

The Cavitts sued in 1992. Nearly five years later, Floyd Cavitt and five of his
co-workers went to trial in Lance's court. They and the co-workers who would
follow them into court claimed that they had been exposed on the job and
developed everything from mesothelioma and other cancers to asbestosis and more.
Cavitt's lawyer had sent along a few small checks from companies that chose to
settle. One of the plaintiffs in Cavitt's case was already dead of lung cancer
by then, and the men and their wives won a $4.31 million judgment.

Under Texas law, an injured worker's redress is typically a worker's
compensation claim. Workers can't successfully sue their employers unless they
prove that those employers were grossly negligent. Although Alcoa has
confidentially settled scores of cases, the more common targets are the
manufacturers of asbestos-containing products, in part because the legal
standard is lower than proving egregious conduct on the part of Alcoa. And
that's where Milam County becomes part of a larger American narrative.

Nationwide, the Rand Corp. survey estimates that 2.4 million more claims could
be filed in coming years, at a potential cost of between $210 billon and $300
billion. The proposed national settlement estimated at $155 billion represents a
substantial potential savings for American businesses even if, as proposed,
businesses and insurers would largely foot the bill.

If a settlement comes, it won't be soon enough for Mark Humble, a Cameron
attorney who emerged from semiretirement to represent asbestos defendants after
running into a defense lawyer at the courthouse who asked Humble for advice.
"What he told me caught my attention," said Humble, adding that he saw a "gross
imbalance" in the way plaintiffs and defendants were being treated.  At one
time, Humble represented 23 companies. All but eight of those are out of
business or operating under Chapter 11 protection now.

"I'm a small-town guy, but I'm sitting here watching the dismantling of a
significant part of the American economic engine," Humble said.

Timothy Cappolino, a plaintiffs' attorney in the Cameron firm of Cappolino, Dodd
& Krebs, which takes only local cases, offers an alternative perspective. "It's
always about companies being bankrupted," he said. "I never hear about these
people dying horrible deaths. To me, it's a crusade. What happened to these
people was wrong."

A confluence of laws, rules and lawyerly word of mouth causes certain locations
to attract asbestos plaintiffs' lawyers, and that's what happened in Milam
County, where enough claims are on file to number roughly one for every 10
voting-age residents. Alcoa workers from Point Comfort, Texas, to Stanly County,
N.C., have sued here.

Because of rules since changed by tort reform, other plaintiffs had more tenuous
connections to Alcoa: claiming that workers used the company's aluminum products
with asbestos insulation, for example, and that the company knew or should have
known of the danger. Plaintiffs' lawyers argue that selecting favorable
locations is simply a part of vigorously advocating for their clients; defense
lawyers claim that the practice is "forum manipulation" that denies their
clients their rights.

'A virgin people'

Nevertheless, Milam County's time as an asbestos litigation magnet has passed.
Waters & Kraus is no longer filing new claims in Milam County and has farmed its
cases out to Cappolino, Dodd & Krebs. Andy Waters of Waters & Kraus said his
firm decided to pull out in part to focus on the most serious cases that are
most deserving of the largest sums. Also, the climate change that Lance's ouster
signaled influenced the decision, he said.

The pace of asbestos mass tort litigation has appreciably slowed under Judge Ed
Magre, who replaced Lance, but new complaints are filed every month, many of
them bearing the signature of Richard Dodd, who counts several relatives as
victims of asbestos exposure at Alcoa.

"If Alcoa had done the right thing, we wouldn't be having this conversation,"
Dodd said. "The truth is pretty damn powerful."

Waters is equally harsh. He speaks of the company as "a strong presence" in the
county and says Alcoa knew that asbestos was lethal decades before it informed
its workers.

Speaking about internal Alcoa documents his firm found during the discovery
process, Waters said: "This is the strongest evidence of the early knowledge of
the hazards. We've looked at 50 or 60 companies, and Alcoa is the worst."

However, those documents show that Rockdale did conduct a survey of
asbestos-containing items and whether they generated dust in 1978. By 1996, when
Rockdale had an Asbestos Management Plan complete with additional health and
safety information for workers, much of the asbestos material that had
originally been at the site had already been abated. Nevertheless, plaintiffs'
lawyers say the delays killed people and were plainly avoidable. The industrial
hygiene literature available to Alcoa was full of warnings about the hazards of
asbestos decades earlier, they said.

Jeff Mundy, an Austin lawyer who has represented plaintiffs and defendants in
asbestos cases, said: "The State of Texas passed regulations beginning in 1958
that listed asbestos as a potentially hazardous substance that employers were
supposed to protect the workers against. In this situation, that didn't happen.
Everybody that was running any kind of industrial facility just had to know
about those things."

Many Alcoa supporters here remain vexed over what they see as perpetual attacks
from federal and state regulators who have fined Alcoa for air pollution and,
more recently, opponents of the company's plan to begin operations on the
portion of the mine in Bastrop and Lee counties, which will keep the facility
running for 30 more years. The litigation is merely one theater of a multifront
war, they say. But most of those who have sued say they did it not to punish but
to pay their medical bills and provide for their families in the event they're
dead or too sick to work.

"We were a virgin people," said Fred Wilhite of Rockdale, a former Alcoa worker
and asbestos victim who sued Alcoa and others and won confidential settlements.
"We didn't know the danger, and they didn't tell us. There was good, and there
was bad, and there was ugly. Alcoa picked out a good site. They had people here
who weren't going to ask questions."

Like many, Wilhite feels a mixture of anger at what he claims working at Alcoa
did to his health and gratitude for what it did for his community.

"Alcoa provided fulfillment of the hopes and dreams of many, many people,"
Wilhite said. "Women could get their hair fixed and buy store-bought clothes.
Before, we were just poor. Our schools got better. They provide medical. When
Alcoa came, we got Blue Cross. They provided for the people who worked there.
The children lived well and dressed well.

"Nobody's trying to break Alcoa, but we're not a virgin people now," said
Wilhite, who once played trumpet in the Army band and now wears a mask tethered
to an oxygen tank at his home here. "There are people dying, people you won't be
seeing by the end of the year."

Cavitts go to court

Two years after Floyd Cavitt's trial, he and his wife were back in Lance's
court, this time suing Floyd's former employer and others. The lawyers said
washing Floyd's asbestos-laden dusty clothes had given Bernice lung cancer. The
doctors said it would kill her.

The defense posited other hypotheses. They said it was cigarettes. Alternately,
they argued that if asbestos was the cause of Bernice's cancer, she could have
been exposed elsewhere. Asbestos wasn't just ubiquitous in places of heavy
industry; it was once the most common material in insulation.

The jury awarded $2.11 million to the Cavitts and found Alcoa to have been
grossly negligent of "actual conscious indifference to the rights, safety or
welfare" of the persons affected, to quote from the instructions to the trial
jury. In ordinary gross negligence claims, the plaintiff must already be dead, a
requirement that does not apply in household exposure cases.

The single highest settlement in Milam County is believed to be $7.2 million for
a retired Navy machinist and power company worker with mesothelioma. Alcoa was a
named defendant in that suit because attorneys alleged that the worker was
exposed on the job while using a non-asbestos-containing Alcoa product designed
to be used with asbestos. Attorneys argued that using the two products together
released asbestos fibers and that Alcoa knew or should have known of the hazard.

But such comparatively large sums are relatively rare, and a review of available
court records shows that Milam County juries are loath to award punitive damages
that have sent awards to stratospheric levels in other places. After the lawyers
take their fee -- up to 40 percent -- and deduct expenses, there isn't a whole
lot left for survivors such as Floyd Cavitt. And some of his former co-workers
would say that's as it should be: Going after Alcoa was taking food out of their
mouths, they say. Neighbors cluck about the big-screen TVs and Cadillac
Escalades those who have sued treat themselves to when the money starts coming
in.

The cancer took its time to kill Bernice Emma Wilson Cavitt. She lived for seven
years, and in her last few months she couldn't do much but lay in pain.

"I know people got to die of something," she would say to Floyd, "but it's hard
to die of something you got from the job you were doing."

Bernice Cavitt died Oct. 25. She and Floyd had been married 52 years.

"It's rough," Floyd Cavitt said. "I'm telling you it's rough. Money don't mean
nothing to me. Money doesn't replace her no kind of way."

End of an era

Betty Robertson, the clerk of court in Milam County, is pleased and relieved
that she and her small staff are no longer overwhelmed. The volume of new
asbestos complaints has ebbed today from what it was a few years ago. With
sometimes 10 or more plaintiffs and three or four dozen defendants in a typical
action, files in a single case could run for yards. Worse, the asbestos
litigation boom in Milam County coincided with a major renovation of the 1892
courthouse.

Partly because of the caseload and partly because of the construction, most of
the asbestos files were moved to be stored in the second floor of a downtown
storefront. Stacked end to end, the files on the shelves would easily run the
length of a football field.

"It's like a bad headache that won't go away," said Robertson, herself the widow
of a former Alcoa man who died of emphysema, not asbestos disease. "You learn to
live with it."

But there are widows and widowers who wonder how they can go on living without
their husbands and wives. They still wonder who is to blame.

"Cline's dreams were robbed from him," Marie Freiling said, "and me too. I keep
thinking he's going to walk through the gate. I'll open the door and say,
'Honey, I'm here!' "

Then she realizes that there's no one there. That tonight, again, she'll watch
the sunset alone.

pbeach@statesman.com; 445-3603

Stories from other Alcoa plaintiffs, Sammie Lee Chopp

Sammie Lee Chopp

Sammie Lee Chopp earned $200 in his last year of sharecropping before he went to
work at Alcoa's Rockdale Operations in 1953. Years later, his wife, Willie Mae
Chopp, died of lung cancer allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos fibers on
his clothes. Chopp sued and won settlements but lost at trial earlier this year
against Quigley Corp., which made insulated plaster and cement containing
asbestos, the sole defendant named in the suit that chose to proceed to trial.

Joe Belicek

Joe Belicek holds a plaque he received for his service at Alcoa's Rockdale
Operations, where he worked from 1964 until early this year. Belicek and his
wife, Faye, filed suit in Milam County alleging that they suffer from
asbestosis: Joe from being exposed on the job, Faye from washing his clothes.
They have settled with some defendants. 'I kind of feel like they done us
dirty,' he said of his former employer.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Years of work in Alcoa's pot rooms, where aluminum is created, left
Fred Wilhite of Rockdale with an asbestos-related lung condition known as
pleural plaquing. He once played the trumpet in the Army band but now wears an
oxygen mask most of the day. 'We didn't know the danger, and they didn't tell
us,' he said of his former employer. // Marie Freiling is still coming to terms
with the death of her husband, Cline. He died from an asbestos-related cancer
called mesothelioma. // Alcoa's pot rooms are hangarlike buildings where
aluminum is created in superheated conditions. In the 1950s, the lining of the
melting pots contained asbestos, and they were occasionally broken up when
workers relined the pots, sending asbestos fibers into the air. // The volume of
new asbestos complaints has declined lately, but the files on the shelves would
easily run the length of a football field if they were stacked end to end. //
After Floyd Cavitt's wife, Bernice, was found to have lung cancer, a jury said
Alcoa had been g

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               46 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 14, 2003, Sunday

Going deep
Terry Allen delves into the past -- to baseball and blues -- for 'Dugout'
exhibit

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 2381 words


On opening night, Terry Allen is playing the role of tour guide -- leading
visitors through the Austin Museum of Art and introducing them to his new visual
arts exhibit. The man is cordial, polite and more than a little shy. He's
wearing boots and jeans, a tailored shirt and tasteful dark sport jacket.
Imagine a humble, middle-aged Leonardo with a High Plains drawl. We follow him
into the galleries and listen. . . .

"The name of this show is 'Dugout.' It's based, very loosely, on the lives of my
parents," Allen explains to us. "My dad was a pro baseball player. My mother was
a musician, an old barrelhouse piano player. 'Dugout' is a link word for me,
since Dad spent a lot of time in dugouts when he played baseball. And my mother
was born in a dugout" . . . a house dug out of the earth . . . "in Oklahoma."

Allen leads us into the exhibit hall, past six fanciful "stage installations" --
one as airy as a house without walls, one as serious as an altar, one the very
window of anxiety and longing -- each representing a distinct emotional climate
of a couple's shared life. Between each stage, we pass framed drawings that
depict specific scenes from a husband and wife's personal histories, before the
two had ever met. There are many symbolic references to baseball and blues, the
lines of a ballfield and the lines of song. There is also dirt. Lots of dirt.

This exhibit is very much about digging, Terry Allen tells us. It's about
digging into stories, digging into memory, digging out information. It's about
digging beneath the surface of what we see, beneath literal truth, to a place of
deeper meaning. It's about digging 'til you find ghosts . . . And that's where
the explanation stops. "Listen to me go on and on," Allen says softly. "Blah,
blah, blah, blah."

Terry Allen has devoted his entire life to the arts -- achieving acclaim as a
musician, songwriter, visual artist and sculptor. Yet he can barely say the word
"art" without frowning; it's as if the connotation is too lofty, too
inaccessible, too self-important. Allen prefers to describe the creative process
as "work." It's a fitting take for anyone who grew up on the flat lands of West
Texas after World War II, where all worthy endeavors required grit and muscle, a
tool like a shovel . . . and a deep understanding of dirt.

Do you know artist Terry Allen? Are you familiar with his work? He is, quite
simply, a man who defies framing, forever digging away at that hard line that
separates high art and a good belly laugh. Think of him, as Austin musician
Davis McLarty does, as a "Chicken Fried Renaissance Man." Know him as a friend
and collaborator of David Byrne of Talking Heads fame. Note that his sculptures
grace museum floors, airports, office towers -- and an empty lot in the middle
of Lubbock. Appreciate that he is a molding influence of West Texas musicians
Butch Hancock, Jimmie Dale Gilmore and Joe Ely, known collectively as the
Flatlanders.

There is an overriding sense of mystery in Allen's work, says Ely -- and that's
what makes it so alluring. "It's always there," says Ely. "You're always
unlocking some mystery, like you've found some magic box. You know there's a
mystery inside and you're trying to get to it."

Terry Allen has recorded 11 albums of very original music over the past 35 years
-- each a cult classic that defies categorization. His songs are sometimes deft
and subtle, sometimes funny and satirical, sometimes caustic and rough-knuckled,
particularly on the subject of organized religion. Many of his songs have been
covered. If you ever heard Lowell George and Little Feat do "New Delhi Freight
Train," you know the work of Terry Allen. If you've ever heard Robert Earl
Keen's "Amarillo Highway" or Ely's "Gimme a Ride to Heaven Boy" or David Byrne's
"Cocktail Desperado" from the film "True Stories" . . . well, you know the work
of Terry Allen, too.

"I think it's as hard to write a really good little country waltz as it is to
make a giant sculpture," says Allen, his voice rising with warm, almost boyish
enthusiasm. "I really do! And they're equally important, in terms of doing it.
I've never thought that there was any dominance as far as form. A really good
pop song, some sculpture, a painting or drawing, a highly elevated cultural
activity or an object . . . it's all the same."

Terry Allen clearly feels the pulse of music, the rhythms of language, in his
mixed-media visual arts pieces. Many of his songs are, in fact, vivid word
pictures. Here, where visual and musical flow into one, where truth and fiction
flow into one, where life and work flow into one, we encounter the landscape of
his art.

A baseball diamond.

The game is abstract.

There are no foul lines.

The invention of foul lines will change the game.

Men who can only hit extreme left or extreme right will be

eliminated for those who can hit within the confines.

Foul lines are the last great change . . . much more than lights.

This is before that.

When hits went off in every direction

like dark wings.

-- From "Dugout"

Terry Allen was raised in Lubbock, a city laid out in a perfect grid. But he's
lived most of his life outside the lines of Texas. Allen was born in Kansas in
1943, when his father was almost 60 and his mother was almost 40. He was
educated at the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles. He lived for 17 years in
Fresno, teaching art in a town which might be described as "the Lubbock of
California." Since the late 1980s he has been based in Santa Fe -- where he
shares studio space with his wife of 42 years, actress and playwright Jo Harvey
Allen.

Clearly, however, Allen's artistic temperament was forged in Lubbock -- where
there was so much of nothing that it was really, really something. Horizon
inspired him. The open road inspired him. And the birth of rock 'n' roll
inspired him. . . .

"Carl Perkins really did it for me, with 'Blue Suede Shoes,' " Allen recalls
over a weekend lunch -- Middle Eastern fare, with a cold Texas beer -- on
Congress Avenue. "It dawned on me that song was the first one I'd ever heard
that wasn't institutional. It wasn't about country, school, church, family or
God. It was about me -- and my shoes!"

Allen was blown away by the sheer exhilaration of rock 'n' roll, the rebellious
individualism of it. Imagine the excitement of a time when the music was so new
that there was no such thing as a rock 'n' roll "oldie." Imagine the allure of
careening out of Lubbock in a convertible with fins, a blank canvas in the sky,
a world of possibility. . . .

Terry Allen, quite simply, had fallen in love with the idea that one's passion
and one's work could be one and the same -- and that such a life might be its
own work of art. The idea was to be as bold as possible, to question everything,
even one's core convictions, to break the bonds of conformity. And in each work,
to realize a new beginning. . . .

"I feel every time is a first time," says Allen, talking about the process of
creating a song . . . a sculpture . . . a piece of writing. "Every time you're
taking nothing, starting again with nothing, and trying to make something out of
it. . . . For me, it's not about what you already know. It's in the exploring of
what you don't know that sucks you in and gets your blood going, what makes it
endlessly exciting in a sense."

Terry Allen can tell some wonderful stories. He'll tell you about hanging out
with a young Lowell George, or touring with a Thai folk band in Southeast Asia,
or wading out into the Pacific Ocean the day he moved to California, just so he
could lose himself again in that familiar, flat horizon. But it's the passion
Allen feels for the creative process -- and its connection to our times --that
reveals more about the man.

"On 'Juarez' . . . from the 1960s . . . I wrote a line that, in America, it's
motion that's holy, not the destination," says Allen. "I think that was true in
the 1950s and the 1960s. It's almost like a beatnik remark, you know? But I
don't think it's true now. I think the culture (today) is all about the
destination. We've forgotten about motion. But the thing about making work, it's
all about motion, about the getting there. Not the 'there.' Once you're 'there,'
it's over."

No surprise that Terry Allen sees the challenge of the creative process in the
form of a question -- and that his question involves motion. "Why not try to
make stuff that does something?"

"In a song or a novel, an opera or a poem, you try to make a world and try to
make it true to itself," says Allen. "And it's your job -- your duty -- to care
about what you're doing. . . . Your task is to make something that will speak
for itself to a lot of people. You don't accomplish that by working to a
stereotype. You have to work personally, because that's how you are ultimately
going to touch people. If you just try to do something the way everyone else
does it, that caters to a low common denominator, people are going to ignore it.
It's probably going to be boring as well. . . ."

"We live in a time of institutional cowardice," he says a moment later. "And it
makes it hard for people that are involved in those institutions to be brave."
It's easy to imagine us all standing alone at the center of the grid -- bounded
by the conforming lines of culture and corporation, nationalism and organized
religion. But here comes Terry Allen, riffing away on a bold, abstract rendition
of the old familiar song. Lay off! Lay off of my blue suede shoes!

Once, he told a young busher with a promising arm

"Your life just turns into

a bucket of stories with a little bitty hole in

the bottom."

"Or a bucket full of holes with a little bitty story in the bottom'"

she told him years later.

Giggling.

-- From "Dugout"

Halfway through a second guided tour of "Dugout," Terry Allen directs our
attention to a mixed-media stage called "Metronome." We form an arc around him.
This display is all about longing, he says softly. It's about pain. "It's about
that feeling of anxiety and waiting."

The art before us is hard to explain, logically. But it certainly feels anxious.
We stand before a pacing floor. A rocking chair. Sheet music, from a song called
"Passing Time," hangs on the wall, stained blood-red. We see a broken drinking
glass, with a baseball hanging on its lip. The glare of green neon suggests
barlight. Thin strips of wood swish across the surface of some haunting
paintings, suggesting the sweep of the metronome. Counting. Pacing. Counting.
Waiting.

A block of text tells us it's 1957. An aging man is waiting for his wife to come
home -- and it's not the first time she's left him longing. She's out drinking,
for sure. Been gone three days. He seems to know the secret of why she always
runs away, and it hurts him. But he knows she'll come back. She always does. . .
.

"Metronome" -- intricate, abstract, more about feeling than literal
representation -- makes a powerful emotional statement. All the more fascinating
is that it mirrors "Room to Room," one of Allen's old songs. "Room to Room"
(from his 1996 album "Human Remains") feels like an old-timey country tune, with
plenty of fiddle, set to a wiper-blade beat. A man waits at the window. His wife
is out drinking. In his lyrics, Allen plays with the ambiguity of the "pane" and
"glass" at the waiting window and the "pain" and "glass" of alcoholism. . . .

"I don't really carry any prejudices about material," Allen has been saying. "I
don't have any prejudice about styles. I don't have any prejudice about the
forms that the thing is going to take. I've always thought that they dictate
themselves -- and you follow that."

Terry Allen's explanations help us appreciate the poetic nuance of his exhibit.
We notice that a neon white moon looks a lot like a baseball . . . and that the
wooden lid of a piano is shaped exactly like home plate. We see straight lines
passing out of one framed picture and into the next. We consider the foul line
of baseball and a color line associated with blues and jazz. We entertain
"dugout" in the context of a combat trench . . . in the down-and-dirty rhythm of
the "St. Louis Blues" . . . in the figurative understanding that "the sea of
Amarillo" is really just "an ocean of dirt."

"The nature of this kind of life" -- the life of making this thing called art --
"is that it's all about ups and downs," Allen had been saying over lunch. "You
do things. You make work. And you feel good about it, but only for about three
minutes. That's about all you get. . . . But you know something? That three
minutes that you feel it worked? It's worth all of it. You know?"

At the end of the tour, Allen leads us into a room that evokes a moment of
passage: an ailing man near death, his younger wife aware that the moment is
nigh. We stand before a stark landscape, suggesting both graveyard and ballyard,
bases like tombstones. A bent, leafless tree anchored in bare soil suggests the
form of a throwing arm -- launching a spirit into heights unknown. There is a
message, scripted in neon: "He feels himself suddenly come loose . . . and fly
out in a great high and familiar arc . . . and in some infinite and secret
place, she flies away with him."

Terry Allen stands in front of this dark and dramatic stage, built from the
fibers of history and imagination, and turns to face us. He seeks to explain the
launching force of the tree. He's so caught up in the spirit, in fact, that he
tries to show us with his body language. He arches his back and stretches his
arm outward, upward -- his posture mirroring the arc of the art behind him.

Allen's passion crosses all the lines. Together, we enter a place where the
visual and musical flow into one, where truth and fiction flow into one, where
life and work flow into one. It is the very landscape of art.

bbuchholz@statesman.com. 912-2967

(from box)

The story continues . . . on stage

What: 'Dugout III: Warboy (and the backboard blues),' a one-person play written
by Terry Allen. Starring Jo Harvey Allen, with live music by Terry Allen.

When: 8 p.m. Jan. 3 and 4

Where: State Theater, 719 Congress Ave.

Tickets: $15-$20, at the Paramount Theatre box office (713 Congress Ave.) or by
phone at 469-SHOW

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The tableaus in 'Dugout' depict the emotional landscapes of a couple's
shared life, grounded in the first half of the 20th century. This detail, from
'Metronome,' riffs on the themes of baseball and music and alcoholism, involving
yearning and anxiety. // Terry Allen leads visitors through 'Dugout,' based in
part on the lives of his parents -- one a ballplayer, one a piano player. 'I was
haunted . . . by the stories I heard from them,' he says. // In the text
accompanying 'House on Fire,' Terry Allen writes: 'They'd come scratching on the
screen, pounding on the door . . . old ballplayers and old musicians . . . come
to tell their stories. She would cook and giggle and play the piano like a house
on fire.' // 'Ancient,' the first stage of 'Dugout,' alludes to a couple's first
understanding that the husband is ill -- and dying. What do a man and wife see
-- and feel -- as they sit on two separate chairs that are a single chair? This
exhibit is 'a love story,' says Terry Allen. 'It's an investigation into

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               47 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 28, 2003, Sunday

DISTANT COUSINS
New House districts merge remote places and politics
District 11 snares Hill Country, but Midland is center of power

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1368 words


Central Texans' new political neighbors are politically, philosophically and
literally all over the map.

Some locals will be matched up with Houston suburbanites. Others will be in a
district with residents along the U.S.-Mexico border. Yet others will be
co-constituents in a district that stretches way out to West Texas.

No single spot typifies the new reality more than an unremarkable spot on 38th
Street, a block west of Guadalupe, where Travis County's three U.S. House
districts converge. On the north side of 38th Street, residents of The Gables at
Central Park apartments are to elect a member of Congress with Houston
suburbanites. Across the street, Marimont Cafeteria customers dine in a district
that includes the Rio Grande Valley. Walk one block west and Austinites will
share a district with San Antonio.

In a six-part series, the American-Statesman introduces readers to their new
political neighbors if the new districts withstand a court challenge.

Today: a district that was at the heart of the Legislature's redistricting
fight.

MIDLAND -- Bart Wolf, a pumper lubricating a pumpjack in a Dust Bowl-size
sandstorm, speaks of the chip that is about to fall from Midland's shoulder.

"We felt we had been step-children for so long we didn't know anything
different," he said. "It's exciting to get our own congressman."

It's hard to imagine a community that's home to the state's third most-powerful
official and brags of itself as "Home to Presidents" nursing a political
complex. Yet Midland and its sister city, Odessa, are accustomed to sharing
their congressional lawmakers with larger neighbors, Lubbock or Amarillo, or
being spliced into multiple districts.

The new Congressional District 11 changes that. It is the political creation of
largely one man, Texas House Speaker Tom Craddick of Midland, who had one
purpose in mind: electing an oilman from his hometown to the U.S. Congress.

There are 12 states smaller than the district, which sprawls from the eastern
edges of the Hill Country to the New Mexico state line. There are miles and
miles of Texas within its borders -- some 400 miles at its breadth, almost as
far as Cleveland, Ohio, is from Washington D.C.

The climatic and geographic extremes are, well, extreme. It's a desert
concealing oceans of oil and verdant hills overlooking Highland Lakes. It's
mesquite and cedar; dust allergies and cedar fever; it's one flat vista and a
thousand scenic views.

District 11 was carefully drawn to stack the deck for Midland-Odessa as the
population center for the 36 mostly rural counties. Midland and Odessa have 36
percent of the district's population and 55 percent of its Republican voters.

"It's ours to lose right now," said Jim Henry, a Midland oilman since 1961.

Oil is everything to Midland. A 100-mile circle around the city encompasses the
Permian Basin, the site of more than one-fifth of the nation's oil reserves and
more than 60 percent of the oil and gas produced in Texas. More than 2,000 firms
in Midland-Odessa are involved in oil and gas.

As the ExxonMobils and ChevronTexacos turn their attention overseas to larger
fields and cheaper production, independent oilmen such as Henry are taking the
place of the multinational oil companies in the West Texas economy.

The message from the oil patch: They'd love more predictable oil prices --
unlikely in a global market -- and fewer regulations.

"We want to be left alone," Henry said. Any one regulation may be defensible,
Henry says, but "there's a stack of regulations to the moon!"

Lisa Johnson, manager of the Wall Street Bar & Grill for 20 years, moved to
Midland from a Boston suburb. She said she's been in West Texas long enough to
appreciate the beauty of the desert and the big sky overhead.

She said Midland shares much with rural Texas: "It's like a big city with
small-town ethics."

More than 100 miles downstate, San Angelo is a farming-ranching community that
has a little oil production and Goodfellow Air Force Base.

The community also had some doubts about losing U.S. Rep. Charlie Stenholm, a
farmer and powerful agriculture advocate, to another district.

"It was feared that agricultural interests would be lost in the fumes of oil and
gas," said Ed Olson, chairman of the government department at Angelo State
University.

Also, it will now be up to a freshman member of Congress to defend San Angelo's
air base in the next round of base closings.

"Oh boy!" said Rose Ellen, co-owner of the USA Barbershop at the base's gate, as
she contemplates life without the air base. She fiddles with the
stars-and-stripes pin on her apron: "If they were to lose this base, it would
have a phenomenal economic impact on this area."

J. Lynn Williams, who grew up in Llano, ranches near San Angelo and is buying
the historic J.L. Mercer & Son boot store.

He says the sprawling district shares a ranching-hunting backbone and similar
values.

"There's a different social climate here because it's a lot more rural,"
Williams said.

Elmer Kelton, the Western novelist, says the district is mostly middle-class,
working people tied to the land: "We're basically cut from the same piece of
cloth."

In the Hill Country, residents are more closely tied to Austin or San Antonio.

"Midland to Mason? That's a stretch," said Mason school superintendent Matt
Underwood buying barbecue at Cooper's Old Time Pit Bar-B-Que, a famous barbecue
joint in Llano.

"It's Texas friendly," Underwood said of the district, "but it's two different
economies."

While Midland has oil, the Hill Country has water -- the lakes and rivers that
draw retirees.

Leon Tucker, a retiring Llano County commissioner, claims to be one of the last
Democrats in the area.

His wish from the next member of Congress could be taken from the Republican
platform: "We hope they don't put any more on us."

Burnett County Judge David Kithil, a Republican, said the region will miss U.S.
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio. But he said a Midland member of Congress will
have to learn the Hill Country just as Smith did.

"Our issues are different than the oil patch," Kithil said. "We are faced with a
rapidly growing population and stress on our roads and highways."

He said the new district stirred the emotions of the political activists:
"Outside of those, I guess there are very few who understand we will have a new
congressman."

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617

(from captions)

FACES OF CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 11

J. Lynn Williams, who grew up in Llano, says those in District 11 share a
ranching-hunting backbone and similar values. 'There's a different social
climate here because it's a lot more rural.'

Lorenzo Vensez tends to the food at Cooper's Old Time Pit Bar-B-Que in Llano. In
the Hill Country, residents tend to be more closely tied to Austin or San
Antonio than to Midland.

Western novelist Elmer Kelton, who lives in San Angelo, says residents of
District 11 share the qualities of being working people tied to the land. 'We're
basically cut from the same piece of cloth.'

What do independent oil producers such as Jim Henry want from Congress? 'We want
to be left alone,' said Henry, a Midland oilman since 1961. 'There's a stack of
regulations to the moon!'

(from box)

A profile of District 11

* More socio-economic information about the district, including data on housing
and ancestry, is available at www.statesman.com.

Population: 651,620

Mean household income: $44,770

Incumbent: None

Past voting

Republican: 69.8%

Democrat: 30.2%

Based on the 2002 general election for statewide offices.

Ethnicity and race

White: 64.6%

Hispanic: 29.6%

Black: 4.4%

Other: 1.6%

Employment:

16 years and older

Retail: 12.3%

Health care: 11.7%

Educatiaonal services: 10%

Manufacturing: 8.2%

Other*: 57.7%

Educational attainment

25 years and older

No high school diploma: 26.3%

High school diploma: 29.5%

Some college, associates degree: 27.3%

Bachelor's degree: 12.1%

Graduate degree: 4.9%

Source: Texas Legislative Council; 2000 census

JUMP INFORMATION APPENDED FROM FILE K:/NEP/DAYS/12282003/12280193.NVP

Page: A1

Headline:

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Oil is everything in the Midland area, where roughnecks wrestle pipe,
above, and a truck carries chemicals used in the drilling process, top. From the
oil fields of West Texas to the Highland Lakes, the new Congressional District
11 is a region of contrasts. // A dust storm ruffles grass outside of Midland.
Stretching from the New Mexico state line to the Hill Country, District 11 is a
land of extremes.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               51 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 6, 2003, Monday

Letters

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1044 words


High-five to 'Low-Tech'

Thank you for the Dec. 29 article about the Low-Tech Happy Hour ("Unemployed but
coping"). Being unemployed in Austin during a period when loads of talented
high-tech folks are in the same dilemma and facing countless forms of
disappointment could understandably put one in a deep, blue funk.

Thanks to the the founder of Low Tech Happy Hour, Alison Roberts, for making
lemonade out of lemons, rinds and seeds and then sharing her creation with
others.

Instead of bemoaning her fate of being laid off from a major high-tech employer,
Roberts conceived, coordinated and rallied hundreds of high-tech refugees into
celebrating their chances of creating a new future for themselves.

Proving that good can indeed come from the some of the worst that life has to
offer, Roberts not only landed a great position for herself but also created
legions of fans and lifetime friends in the process. The "Low Tech Happy Hour"
has given many of Austin's most talented a knot on the end of a lifeline to hang
onto for a bit longer.

Kudos to one of Austin's unsung heroines and to all of the speaking
professionals who have donated their time to the group.

BARBARA E. SANTOS

Austin

bsantos@austin.rr.com

It's their job

In a recent issue of Time magazine, three whistle-blowers (Coleen Rowley,
Sherron Watkins and Cynthia Cooper) were honored as "persons of the year."

It is good to recognize individuals who display courage against the status quo
or corrupt practices. The only thing that I am disappointed about the selection
of these three individuals is that we are honoring people who were expected to
do the right things. Have we reached the point that we must honor individuals
for doing the right things? When I was growing up in the 1950s, I was told that
we do the right things because we were expected to do so.

I hope we haven't come to the point when people will only do courageous or good
things when they are being watched.

VANCE BRADFORD

Giddings

Wrong focus

Buried on page A17 of the Dec. 18 issue was an Associated Press article
indicating that aI Qaeda training camps are back in operation in eastern
Afghanistan.

According to a U.N. report cited in the article, Islamic radicals are "streaming
into al Qaeda training camps that have been reactivated" there, and Osama bin
Laden's terror network "has access to substantial funding from its previously
established investments."

After reading this, several questions come to mind. First, wasn't the main point
of our war on terrorism to dismantle these training camps and apprehend bin
Laden? Second, why does the Bush administration continue on its seemingly
inexorable march toward war with Iraq while ignoring the fact that the al Qaeda
network is up and running again in Afghanistan and probably in Pakistan as well?
Finally, why was this report not front page news?

It is outrageous that Bush has supplanted Osama bin Laden with Saddam Hussein as
public enemy No. 1, but it's even worse that the mainstream media are letting
him get away with it.

LUCY F. PETRUCELLI

Austin

Ditch the Clintons

The question many people are asking is what happened to the once proud and
powerful Democratic Party? The answer is not as complicated as one might think.

The albatrosses that haunt the party are none other than Bill and Hillary
Clinton. After eight years in the White House, the Clintons have soiled the
once-moral ground that supported the Democratic message. When Democrats divorce
themselves from the Clintons, the party can rebound to what it once was.

FREDERICK G. SCHMALBERGER

Georgetown

Old-fashioned teaching

Thomas Sowell proposes privatizing teaching at our flagship University of Texas
-- just exactly the wrong way to go (Dec. 30 column, "Our nation's flagging
flagships"). Privatization of extramurally funded research makes more sense if
we are to assure sound university education for all in the future.

A sound education comes from close association with educated faculty. I was
favored with a UT education from 1944-1950 in which science, math, English,
foreign language, indeed all courses, introductory and advanced, save two were
conducted by regular faculty. Only science laboratories and state-mandated
government and history courses were conducted by graduate students yet involved
in their own education. Needless to say, these were the worst in my education.

Which is more important to students and educated taxpayers: funded research or
education? Perhaps it is time to rethink what a flagship university should be.

LELAND L. SMITH

Austin

New generation

In the Dec. 29 article on abortion, Cathy Cleaver comments that the pro-choice
movement is a "generation of post-menopausal women fighting for something they
will never need."

As a 29-year-old woman with functional ovaries, I beg to differ. My generation
owes a great deal those who fought for a woman's right to control her
reproduction -- not just the right to safe, legal abortion but also the right to
contraception. I am part of a vast movement of young women and men who
appreciate what our mothers and grandmothers fought for and we will carry the
torch.

Control of our bodies is central to our whole health and well-being and affects
every aspect of our lives. No matter how the political climate may change, this
fact will never alter.

HEATHER BUSBY

Board president

Lilith: A Fund for Reproductive Equity

Austin

A woman's choice

I can appreciate the emotions involved on both sides of the abortion issue. I
have personal beliefs that I do not feel should be imposed on women at large;
this remains a private issue between the patient and her doctor.

When I read about Lubbock protesters in front of a clinic calling police when
minors arrived for service or counseling with their mothers, I thought this was
an act of appalling arrogance and that these self-righteous know-it-alls should
mind their own business.

It is barbaric to hold the idea that to provide medical services to these young
women is criminal. The logic of the abortion opponent that post-menopausal women
have no need of abortion services and therefore are irrelevant to the forum of
ideas is ludicrous.

KENNEY KENNEDY

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Every Wednesday afternoon, the Low-Tech Happy Hour meets to share tales
of looking for work and to network with others.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               53 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 16, 2003, Thursday

Fearless
A Grammy-Nominated Texas Expatriate Takes On War, Patriotism and the Death
Penalty. An Interview With Steve Earle.

BYLINE: Brad Bucholz, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2099 words


Maverick singer-songwriter Steve Earle is playing a concert in Austin Friday
night. But in the grand scheme, Earle had never really intended to be here.
After releasing six albums in six years, he'd planned upon taking a break from
music in 2002. He wanted to spend the year writing a novel, encouraged by the
success of his debut short story collection, "Doghouse Roses."

Yet in the aftermath of Sept. 11, Steve Earle felt compelled to change his plans
-- writing and recording "Jerusalem," the most political and provocative
statement of his 20-year recording career. The album doesn't so much focus on
tragedy as America's response to it.

"Lately I feel like the loneliest man in America," Earle wrote in the liner
notes of "Jerusalem." "Frankly, I've never worn red, white and blue that well. I
grew up in the Vietnam War and whenever I see a flag decal I superimpose the
caption: AMERICA -- LOVE IT OR LEAVE IT across the bottom stripe. Back then, as
now, it was suggested by some that second guessing our leaders in a time of
crisis was unpatriotic if downright treasonous. . . ."

Feeling our past very much alive in the present, Steve Earle wrote an album of
songs that second-guesses a lot -- challenging his listeners to consider issues
he suspects they'd rather not confront. "Jerusalem" takes dead aim at American
complacency, denial, even a certain arrogance.

Alienation and loneliness have always been at the heart of Earle's music,
whether it's the reluctant soldier in "Ben McCulloch" -- the 1995 ballad
concerning the Confederate general -- or the coal miners in his 1999 bluegrass
album with the Del McCoury Band, "The Mountain."

This time, he asks his audience to examine lonely, electrified space -- the
space between Bob Dylan's America and its modern ideals, the space between
simple men and their dreams, the space between lost lovers, the space between
humankind and its grand designs. The songs are delivered in a ragged,
world-weary growl.

Earle has received considerable press for his song "John Walker's Blues" --
alluding to the American Taliban John Walker Lindh -- which asks the listener to
consider that an impressionable young man, searching for "Truth," might find the
extremes of fundamentalist Islam and MTV commercial culture equally perilous and
barren. In "Amerika v. 6.0 (The Best We Can Do)", Earle rails against everything
from HMOs to Wall Street to compassionate conservatism.

"I'm proud of this album," Earle said last week, talking via telephone from
Tennessee two days after "Jerusalem" was nominated for a Grammy. "One of the
things I dig about it now is that it sounds pretty urgent -- because that's the
way it was recorded!"

Forever a champion of liberal causes, Earle recently premiered his first play,
"Karla" -- his take on the life and death of Texas death-row inmate Karla Faye
Tucker -- in Tennessee. "I've gotten pacifistic in my old age," said Earle, a
longtime opponent of the death penalty. "I killed 17 deer before I stopped
killing things. I occasionally humiliate a fish before I put him back in the
water. But that's it."

With "Jerusalem," Earle continues a musical evolution that has already wound
through the terrains of country, bluegrass, Texas folk, rock and pop. He's a
child of Schertz, a lover of nature, a former prison inmate, a recovering
addict. An artist inspired by the musical example of Tom Waits and Neil Young
and spurred by the social passion of Emma Goldman, Martin Luther King Jr. and
Malcolm X, Steve Earle is abrasive, confrontational, provocative, American.

American-Statesman: The 11 songs on "Jerusalem" very much relate to the story of
these times. If you had the power to add a 12th -- touching on events that have
occurred since -- what would it be?

Steve Earle: It would probably have to do with Iraq. I think we're in real
danger of starting World War III. That part of the world is so dangerous -- and
we're underestimating that. . . . The reason people in the Islamic world hate us
is not because we're 'free.' You know? That statement irritates me the most, and
a lot of people say it. But the reason they hate us is because we support the
house of Saud, one of the most repressive regimes that's ever existed on the
planet, and because we support Israel. . . .

We have been manipulated, you know: We're going to attack Iraq, and we're going
to do it because of Sept. 11. That's basically what's been told to us. That's
scary man, because it's racism. Sept. 11 and Iraq don't have anything to do with
each other. And while I don't think the American public has totally bought that,
I do think they're uncomfortable with the idea of appearing to be unpatriotic.

Just today, on NPR, a commentator was talking about an American culture that's
beginning to equate debate with sedition.

It happened before. It happened in the Vietnam War. And it took a lot of body
bags to make people realize that debate, even dissent, was not unpatriotic.

Can you talk about an artist's responsibility when it comes to examining issues
like war, or our country's future, through work? Is there a line beyond which
you feel you can't cross? I have a feeling that someone like Pablo Picasso would
have said, 'No!'

I don't think that artists have a responsibility, but they shouldn't be
discouraged, either. Just making art, believe me, is a political statement,
especially in this current atmosphere. When you make art, for the sake of art,
and don't pay attention to how much it will sell or whose toes you're going to
step on, with no consideration other than having a vision and executing it,
that's a political statement in and of itself. I just happened to be a
songwriter that started playing in coffehouses in the '60s, so it has never
occurred to me to avoid issues. I think Pablo Picasso was a very political
artist, and by the same token I'm a political artist because I live in
politically charged times. But my last record ("Transcendental Blues") was
nearly all chick songs, and I reserve the right to do that again, because that
record was very relevant to me.

I hear you've been listening to "The Rising" by Bruce Springsteen. Is it
possible that these two albums -- his theme of consolation, yours that questions
-- can be complementary in American consciousness?

Yeah. What Bruce is doing doesn't communicate readily in political terms, but it
communicates readily in human terms. It's not because he can't; it's because he
doesn't. That's not what his voice is.

Understanding the depth of your conviction about the death penalty, "Karla" must
have been both challenging and painful to write.

Yeah. It was all of that. It was writing . . . mainly editing . . . all the way
until the night the play opened, much to the actors' chagrin. And what I was
editing out was my agenda. I found out that if I got out of Karla's way, she
said what I needed to say, more powerfully than anything else. . . . I think,
ultimately, the play became about forgiveness, which is at the core of what
opposing the death penalty means.

You've said that you oppose the death penalty not only for political reasons,
but spiritual ones. I'm assuming "Karla" has spiritual themes. . . .

I never met Karla . . . but I don't think anyone who did ever doubted her
spiritual conviction. . . . Karla really changed so much that no one can deny
it. . . . I think people who aren't around, who've never been in a jail, who've
never been on a death row unit: They might be predisposed to dismiss what we
call a "Death Row" conversion. But I submit there's nothing more legitimate than
a death row conversion -- because when someone appoints a time for your death,
you get spiritual.

In your songs and short stories, you show a lot of empathy for loners, losers in
love, prisoners, drifters. What was it in your world, growing up in Schertz,
that brought you to this sensitivity? Or is it just something in your blood?

There's always that question about why Texas produces the great writers and
songwriters . . . and (when it comes to song), the great story-oriented
songwriters. I think the "distance" helps -- just the space between things in
Texas. Of course, it's grown up a lot since I've been there. But there is still
that big sky and the illusion of space, even in the bigger cities. . . . Texas
is a

really severe place. It's a place where people do think, and where there's
always been a literary tradition there, a tradition of independence there, but
there's also a brutality to the society in Texas. And it becomes like a
crucible.

You've remarked several times that the late Townes Van Zandt -- one of your
mentors -- was a great teacher but a bad role model. Could you talk about the
teacher part?

Townes gave me my first copy of "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee" and told me I
needed to read it. He also gave me "War and Peace." I read both books. After I
gave the books back to him, he asked me all these questions -- but they were all
about "War and Peace." And I finally figured out the (man) hadn't read "War and
Peace"!

Townes recognized in me something he had in himself. He was actually pretty
protective of me. . . . If he felt I was paying attention to wrong things --
getting off track as far as what was important about songwriting, what made it
art, why we do what we do -- he told me. He was much more of a teacher in terms
of what's important, in terms of what Lightnin' Hopkins and Robert Frost had to
do with each other.

How would you explain that, exactly?

Have you ever seen (the film) "The Blues Accordin' to Lightnin' Hopkins"? . . .
It begins with Lightnin' saying, "The blues is hard to get acquainted with --
it's kind of like death." I mean: That's poetry! That's it. It's the same thing
Robert Frost does!

Since you are obviously "your own man," I wondered if you could talk about the
notion of the individual in American culture. Independence is a part of American
myth, a thing we still see in old westerns. But in context of corporate America
-- that pressure to conform and play along -- I wonder if you think there's any
hope for the individual in modern America.

I think there's always hope. The mistake we make is assuming we're the exclusive
home of that, assuming that we're the home of the purest form of democracy, that
people can do whatever they want to here. Governments aren't about individuals;
individuals do whatever they want to do anyway. It doesn't matter whether
governments imprison them or kill them. . . . What individuals do for everybody
else is take some of the heat and act as a lightning rod.

I'm just a hillbilly singer with delusions of grandeur. I've tried to follow in
the footsteps of people that went before me and learn from what they did, from
mistakes they made and things that they did right. Sometimes I've been wrong.
Sometimes I've failed. But I don't think that any climate in America will stop
individualism, even though the society at large may value individualism less
than it did.

It seems this interview ends the way "Jerusalem" does. On a note of hope.

That's right.  *

bbuchholz@statesman.com; 912-2967

Steve Earle and the Dukes

When: 9 p.m. Friday. Doors open at 8 p.m.

Where: La Zona Rosa, 612 W. Fourth Street

Tickets: All seats are general admission. $26 today, $29 Friday.

Info: 469-SHOW.

Why Steve Earle Doesn't Live in Austin

An excerpt from a 1996 edition of "Fresh Air," a public radio show hosted by
Terry Gross.

Gross: You dropped out of high school in 1971 and really wanted to, you know,
write songs and perform. You started hanging out with the songwriter Townes Van
Zandt. Why him? What excited you about him? . . .

Earle: Well . . .

Gross: . . . or was he one of the few songwriters that you actually had access
to?

Earle: Well, I mean, there were a lot of songwriters in Texas that I could have
access to. Actually, it was a pretty damn good place to be a songwriter when I
first started writing. I mean, there was Townes and Jerry Jeff (Walker) and
Steve Fromholz, who I saw the other night for the first time in years. There was
just a lot going on in Austin, and, of course, naturally, everybody was telling
me, "Hey, you know, you don't need to go to New York or L.A. or Nashville
because, you know, the music business is coming to Austin. This is going to be
the next music industry center." Even at 19 years old, I knew that that wasn't
true. Austin: The weather's too good, the girls are too pretty and the dope's
too cheap. And you can't get anything done in a place like that. So I came to
Nashville.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               54 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 25, 2003, Saturday

History for sale
Heirs auctioning Panhandle ranch steeped in Texas lore

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2326 words


BUFFALO SPRINGS -- W.J. "Jay" Bryan sits atop a prairie bluff overlooking the
spring water seeping from the Ogallala Aquifer.

He's not thinking about the first Longhorns driven to the water on a hot July
day in 1885 or the beginning of the XIT Ranch or the surrounding 3 million acres
the state gave as payment for the construction of the Capitol in Austin.

He's not recalling C.D. Shamburger, the Wichita Falls lumber magnate who began
buying Panhandle land cheap from Dust Bowl farmers and ranchers broken by
drought and the Great Depression. Bryan even forgets momentarily that the
Shamburger family, now of Highland Park in Dallas, is auctioning off its
37,256-acre ranch in 43 tracts Wednesday and that Bryan's family members, who
have worked and lived on this land longer than anyone, will see their lives
change forever.

Instead, Bryan is thinking of buffalo, the beasts of the plains that wallowed
and watered on the land, that brought tribal hunters who stalked them and warred
over this rare spot of flowing water amid a semiarid prairie.

"Every time I rode across the ranch, I wanted to see it with the buffalo and
Indians," said Bryan, who first came to Buffalo Springs as ranch foreman in
1958.

Bryan wishes aloud that someone would buy a piece of the ranch, stock it with
buffalo and restore Buffalo Springs to what it was before the XIT, before the
Shamburgers, before Bryan himself -- as he says -- "put my bootprint" on every
square foot within miles of this historic spot. The new owner could even restore
the crumbling XIT buildings and the collapsed barns.

That's unlikely. Survival and commerce usually take precedence over historical
preservation on the harsh High Plains. The bidders who will come Wednesday to
Dalhart, the largest city near the Shamburger Ranch, will be drawn more by
hydrology than history. Water -- or the lack of it -- defines the generations
who have come and gone and are yet to come.

The XIT story

It's hard to find any part of the Texas Panhandle along the New Mexico border
that doesn't lay claim to its share of the XIT story. The tale has everything
Texans love. It's big, it's brash, and it's brave. Only problem is, its two
central characters are Yankee merchants.

It was 1879, and Texas was broke but needed a new, grander Capitol. Fearing a
backlash if they raised taxes, state officials offered 3 million acres at 50
cents an acre in exchange for the construction of the Capitol.

The land was an irregular area, 220 miles long and averaging 30 miles wide, from
west of Lubbock to the northwest corner of the Panhandle. It was about the size
of Connecticut and, according to reports from buffalo hunters, not much more
than a desert.

John and Charles Farwell, brothers in their 60s and partners in a large Chicago
wholesale goods store, were key principals in the Capitol Syndicate that won the
bid -- and the right to land they had never seen.

They had hoped to colonize it with farmers hungry for rich farmland. The lack of
railroads and a shortage of reliable water delayed that dream.

Instead, they created what was probably the largest ranch in the Old West and
began fencing it with barbed wire, unheard of in the days of the open range.
Over two years, XIT cowboys strung some 6,000 miles of single-strand barbed wire
-- enough to stretch from New York to Los Angeles and back again. Legend has it
that the brand XIT stood for "10 in Texas" because the ranch covered 10 Texas
counties; in fact, the brand was used because it was difficult for cattle
rustlers to alter.

The ranch ran 150,000 head of cattle. A hundred or so cowboys tended the
livestock, repaired fences, and built and maintained 300 windmills. They were
paid $30 a month and had all they could eat.

By 1901, the Capitol Syndicate was selling pieces of the land at $6 an acre, a
sizable markup. The ranch, which never had been profitable, ceased to exist by
1912. The Capitol Freehold Land Trust that had taken control of the land sold
the last parcel in 1963.

Against that legendary backdrop, Buffalo Springs has a unique claim to its XIT
heritage. It was the first piece of land the state deeded to the Capitol
Syndicate. It was the site of the original ranch headquarters. A trail boss, as
legend has it, scratched his idea for the XIT brand in the dirt there with his
boot. And the first herd of 2,500 Longhorns was branded and released there.

The original ranch house is gone, but another XIT wooden house remains. A
stone-and-adobe cabin that predates the ranch is standing, although a wall is
crumbling. Remnants of the barns remain where they collapsed.

The Capitol Syndicate held onto the springs until 1943, when C.D. Shamburger
purchased it to complete his ranch. Over the past 166 years, the title to
Buffalo Springs reads Republic of Texas, State of Texas, the Capitol Syndicate,
the Capitol Freehold Land Trust and C.D. Shamburger and heirs.

After Wednesday, a new name will be added.

Long-term investment

In the 1930s, the Texas Panhandle was blowing away, literally, because of
drought and poor farming practices. Debt and back taxes did the rest.

In some instances, farmers and ranchers just abandoned the land. The U.S.
government began buying and reseeding it in grasses to save the topsoil.

It was said at the time that desperate landowners could sell to the government
or to C.D. Shamburger -- and Shamburger was paying more.

Shamburger was a self-made man from East Texas who became rich selling and
shipping lumber. He owned a chain of lumber yards across North and West Texas
and southern Oklahoma.

By 1933, Shamburger was buying land around Buffalo Springs for $2 to $5 an acre.
He thought it was a good long-term investment. In 1943, he paid $35 an acre,
Bryan said, to buy Buffalo Springs and complete his 120,000-acre ranch.

The Shamburger Ranch was so large it was measured in square miles -- about 190.
The people of Texline, population 511, could not drive in or out of town without
crossing the ranch.

To an outsider visiting during the winter, this part of the Panhandle may seem a
bleak, timberless plain of grasses the color of tortillas. The only greenery is
where ranchers have drilled wells to irrigate winter wheat for cattle.

It rains only, on average, 17 inches a year. Nothing breaks the cold winter
wind. The few trees either were planted or nourished by the springs.

Yet a closer look reveals signs of wildlife: prairie dogs popping out of their
burrows, two bald eagles nesting in a cottonwood tree, ducks swimming in the
springs' waters. Antelopes sometimes graze alongside cattle on the winter wheat.
Looming over it all is an ever-changing sky unencumbered by man-made structures.

Absentee landlords

The Shamburgers never lived here but managed the ranch from Wichita Falls and,
later, Dallas.

Susan Shamburger Bagwell, 56, the founder's granddaughter, recalls vacationing
at the ranch as a child.

She and her siblings liked to play a unique game of Twister. They'd run to the
part of the ranch where Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico meet and try to put a
foot or a hand in each state.

The family would hunt, star-gaze and roam the ranch, absorbing its lore.

"The ranch has been really important to my family," she said. "It has a
soul-nourishing quality."

With the death of her grandfather in 1955, the ranch was split among his three
children. Over time, two-thirds of the ranch was sold. It fell to Susan's father
and later to her brother, Doug, to run their family's share while dealing with
the family's other businesses and investments.

They would fly to the ranch every other month to look it over. For 40 years,
Bryan was their foreman. He trained Doug as a boy during summer vacations.
Later, Doug Shamburger used that practical knowledge and his Harvard MBA to
improve the ranch for more than three decades.

"We made a good team," Bryan said of working with Doug Shamburger.

Two years ago, Doug Shamburger died suddenly at the age of 57.

Without him, the family decided to sell.

Making a ranch pay for itself is a challenge every year. In today's market, the
owners make most of their money when they sell. Today, grassland sells for $150
an acre. The irrigated farmland broken out from the ranch will go for $800 an
acre or more.

For Susan Shamburger Bagwell, the last of the third generation, the decision to
sell is bittersweet.

"The ranch has proven to be a great investment, just as my grandfather
believed," Bagwell said. "But with each generation, there are fewer memories of
the ranch. Different family members have different ideas about what to do with
the investment."

Where the Lord leads

Jay Bryan grew up on a ranch near Amarillo, broke horses from the age of 12 and
attended Texas Tech University on the GI Bill. He was working as a county farm
agent when he got the opportunity to pursue his first love, ranching.

In 1956, the Shamburgers hired him, at age 30, to work at another of the
family's ranches near Paducah, halfway between Wichita Falls and Lubbock. Two
years later, Bryan got the chance to run the larger Shamburger Ranch at Buffalo
Springs.

"I had always wanted to be a rancher, but I never had the money," Bryan said. "I
could enjoy running a big ranch as much as owning one. Maybe more. I didn't have
to worry about starving."

Bryan and his wife, Novilla, their two children and her orphaned sister and
brother moved to Buffalo Springs in a pickup, trailer and a car. They sent the
rest of their belongings ahead in a truck.

The final 36 miles northwest from Dalhart seemed particularly long and on the
way to the middle of nowhere.

"With each curve in the road, Novilla thought we'd turn off to the ranch," Bryan
remembers. "I brought her all this way, and she stayed 40 years."

Once there, they both loved it.

At first, Bryan looked after the 37,256 acres with only day laborers to help
tend the cattle. He soon hired his brother-in-law, whose family joined them on
the ranch.

Their first winter there, the Bryans got a lesson in the harshness of the
climate and the remoteness of the ranch. An ice storm snapped 500 electric
poles. They were without electricity for three weeks.

Until 1970, Bryan ranched much as the old XIT cowboys did. He spent his days
mending fences, fixing windmills and doctoring sick cattle. In the spring and
fall, there were roundups.

But then it all changed because of irrigation.

Long lines of irrigation pipe on wheels, called pivots, allowed the Shamburgers
to irrigate crops across the uneven prairie surface. They drilled wells into the
Ogallala and began to farm crops to feed their cattle. They built a feedlot.

Bryan was spending more time farming than ranching.

Four years ago, Bryan turned over the foreman duties to his nephew, Bobby Wyatt,
and moved to Dalhart. He's stayed on the Shamburger payroll as ranch
administrator.

Now 76, Bryan hasn't swung a leg over a horse in four years, not since another
cowboy had to saddle his mount because Bryan was too weakened by emphysema.
"It's sad to see the ranch sell, and it's sad you can't ride and rope," Bryan
said. "But I've had a good life. I've just adjusted to it."

The ranch auction comes at the end of Bryan's career. But Wyatt, 43, grew up
here, living in five different houses without ever leaving the ranch. He has
worked nowhere else. A father of three, he is staring into an uncertain future.

He just hopes the next owner needs a foreman: "I'm leaving it up to the Lord.
I'm going to let him take me where he wants me to go."

No buzz

Dalhart calls itself "The XIT City." Although XIT is now just Texas lore, the
brand is everywhere -- on a real estate agency, a cable service, a motel and
cellular, long-distance and rural telephone companies.

The city has sponsored an annual XIT Rodeo and Reunion since the mid-1930s. (The
last XIT cowboy died in 1999 at the age of 100.)

The Shamburgers have marketed the ranch as much for its history as its
agricultural qualities. Yet there is little buzz in town about the sale.

"I don't think the land purchasers are interested in the history," said retired
banker Doyle Hanbury, the interim president of the local Chamber of Commerce.
"There really isn't that much left there, history-wise."

Hanbury's grandfathers worked at the XIT. One was a foreman at Buffalo Springs.
The other was a carpenter who built the XIT barns.

"It was sad to see the barns falling down," Hanbury said.

He doesn't blame the Shamburgers for not doing more to keep up the XIT
buildings. In this part of the country, what a man does with his property is his
business.

"The Shamburgers were not from this part of the country. It didn't mean as much
to them," Hanbury said. "I'm not knocking them. It just doesn't mean as much as
to us who live here."

The Panhandle is changing. Cattle feedlots have been here for years. Large dairy
herds are moving in. A corporate-owned feedlot for hogs was built recently
between Dalhart and Texline. More are coming.

The Ogallala is bringing them.

Wyatt agrees: "The most valuable part of the ranch is invisible -- it's the
water."

No marker

Bryan is easing his Ford sport-utility vehicle up the side of the bluff.

He's lost something.

As he drives, he's expounding on how he hopes "somebody with money" will buy
Buffalo Springs: "It may be foolish, but I'd rather see it kept for history than
a cow ranch."

Driving past the sun-cured skeleton of a quarterhorse, he finally spots what
he's been looking for. The irregular circle of sandstones, out of place on this
prairie slope, means nothing to a stranger.

Almost 40 year ago, Bryan says, two old XIT cowboys came to the ranch, found the
stones and told Bryan they marked the grave of a young, nameless broncobuster
who broke his neck.

"I think there was a marker one time," Bryan says. "But it's gone."

lcopelin@statesman.com; 445-3617

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: For more than 40 years, W.J. 'Jay' Bryan was foreman of the C.D.
Shamburger Ranch. The ranch includes parts of the famed XIT Ranch -- 3 million
acres that were part of a deal that built the Capitol in Austin. // The
Shamburger family is selling off its 37,256-acre ranch in 43 tracts Wednesday in
Dalhart. // The ranch's Buffalo Springs provides a precious commodity in the
semiarid prairie of the Panhandle. // C.D. Shamburger, a Wichita Falls lumber
magnate, put together the Shamburger Ranch during the Dust Bowl.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               56 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 6, 2003, Thursday

Business Digest

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 577 words


UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE

House will consider plan to help those seeking jobs

WASHINGTON -- Unemployed workers having trouble finding jobs would get up to
$3,000 tax free to pay for child care, transportation and training to help with
their job searches under an administration proposal that passed a House
committee Wednesday.

The Education and Workforce Committee voted 23-22 along party lines, sending the
proposal to the House floor, where Republicans have a 24-seat majority to help
ensure passage. The legislation could face obstacles, however, in the closely
divided Senate.

"At a time when the economy is struggling, but also improving, it is important
for us to focus on giving the unemployed more flexibility and choices in their
employment search," said John Boehner, R-Ohio, chairman of the House committee.

DEFENSE CONTRACTORS

Northrop Grumman

lowers earnings forecast

LOS ANGELES -- Defense giant Northrop Grumman Corp. significantly lowered the
range for its projected 2003 earnings to reflect higher interest payments as it
reduces its debt.

The company said earnings this year will range between $3.65 and $4.15 a share,
compared with a previous expectation of $4 to $4.50. Wall Street expected
Northrop to earn $4.18 a share this year.

The company expects net interest expense for 2003 to be about $100 million
higher than its previous guidance of $370 million. It did not change its
projections for cash flow or sales for 2003 and 2004.

FURNITURE

Production interruptions

will hurt Ethan Allen

CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. has periodically halted production
at its manufacturing plants during the latest quarter because of slow business
conditions, according to its chairman and chief executive.

Farooq Kathwari said the down time kept about $14 million of furniture on
production lines and will hurt the company's ability to absorb its overhead
efficiently for its fiscal third quarter, which ends March 31.

Speaking at an investors conference, Kathwari repeated his view that the
Danbury, Conn., manufacturer and retailer is positioned well to capture sales
once consumer demand for furniture reignites.

RETAIL

Costco's profits decline

despite rise in revenue

ISSAQUAH, Wash. -- Costco Wholesale Corp. saw its profit drop 5.4 percent in the
second quarter, even though revenue jumped 7.8 percent, the membership warehouse
chain said Wednesday.

Costco reported net income of $182.1 million, or 39 cents a share, for the
quarter that ended Feb. 16, compared with last year's $192.6 million, or 41
cents a share.

Total revenue, which includes net sales and membership fees, rose to $10.11
billion from $9.38 billion. Same-store sales, or sales at stores open more than
a year, grew 4 percent.

WINE

California vintners hire

Starr to fight restrictions

LOS ANGELES -- Former independent counsel Kenneth Starr was hired to help
California vintners fight bans on wine shipments to consumers in other states.

The nonprofit Coalition for Free Trade retained Starr to argue that shipments
should be allowed in 26 states that outlaw direct-to-consumer sales of wine and
other spirits. The coalition is backed by the Family Winemakers of California, a
trade group of small- to medium-size vintners.

The group would not disclose how much Starr, a partner at the Washington, D.C.,
law firm Kirkland & Ellis, would be paid.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               57 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 7, 2003, Friday

Breaking barriers in male-dominated world
First woman to buy a seat on the NYSE will share her insights on smashing
through the glass ceiling

BYLINE: Lori Hawkins, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 504 words


Muriel Siebert arrived in New York in 1954 as a college dropout with $500 and a
used Studebaker to her name.

She worked her way up Wall Street's ladder, learning the game but earning half
of what her male counterparts at a brokerage house did. In 1967, when it became
clear she would advance no further within the establishment, Siebert set out on
her own, becoming the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange.

Eight years later, she founded her own brokerage firm, Muriel Siebert & Co. It
is still the only female-headed, publicly traded national brokerage firm.

Siebert is in Austin today as a keynote speaker at the Women's Chamber of
Commerce of Texas conference at the Barton Creek Conference Center. Siebert,
author of the new book "Changing the Rules: Adventures of a Wall Street
Maverick," will talk about how she knocked down barriers in the male-dominated
world of Wall Street.

"Thirty-five years after I went out on my own, there are still no other
women-owned firms. There's no excuse for that," she said.

Wall Street today is far friendlier to women, she said. But there are still
formidable challenges.

"Women are making more money. They're rising to the top in certain areas.
Progress is being made, but we are still not in the true executive suite."

Women have made big steps on Wall Street. They are among top analysts; they are
now accepted as money managers. They have broken into top management ranks, but
only about a dozen are sales directors.

The pay gap that Siebert experienced persists, and the climate at some firms is
hostile. Salomon Smith Barney, for example, is still making payments to settle a
1997 class-action lawsuit alleging widespread sexual harassment at one of its
branch offices.

Siebert's advice to women who find themselves in frustrating situations: Move
on.

"If you get yourself in a job and you find there's prejudice against you, look
for another job, because that's something you can't change," she said. "You have
to ask yourself some tough questions first: 'Is it because I'm not up to the
job?' But if you really feel you are not being treated fairly, you have to roll
up your sleeves and look for another job."

Siebert credits her own success to hard work, a knack for finance and luck. As
an analyst in training at Bache & Co., she was given the industries that no one
else wanted to cover, including airlines and television and motion pictures.

"Both of those industries, and my financial talent, let me jump to the top," she
said.

Still, to get ahead, she changed jobs often, moving on when it became clear that
she had risen as far as she could at a given firm.

Finally, tired of hitting the glass ceiling, she went into business for herself,
founding her own company. She paid $455,000 for the stock exchange seat, and
never looked back.

Regarding current Wall Street scandals, Siebert favors a crackdown.

"It's a disgrace, and people should go to jail," she said.

lhawkins@statesman.com; 912-5955

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Muriel SiebertBrokerage founder will speak today about how she overcame
obstacles on Wall Street.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               58 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 7, 2003, Friday

Central Texas Digest

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1264 words


AUSTIN

Goodbye (for now), cabin fever

Thursday's sunny, warm break in Central Texas' long cloudy, cool and rainy
pattern was no fluke. Meteorologists expect sunny skies and highs in the 70s
today and Saturday, with highs remaining in the 70s but clouds moving back in by
Sunday afternoon. Enjoy the nice weather while it lasts.

A continuation of the clouds, with a chance of light rain, is expected Monday
and Tuesday, with highs dropping back into the 60s by Wednesday.

New assistant police chiefs named

The Austin Police Department has named two new assistant police chiefs.

Robert Dahlstorm, a 25-year veteran, will become an assistant chief for
community policing central bureau, including the central-west, central-east and
downtown area commands.

Cathy Ellison, a 24-year veteran, will become an assistant chief over community
policing for the north bureau, which includes the northwest, northeast and
north-central area commands. They will be assigned to their new duties later
this month.

School trustees study budget cuts

Austin school trustees said Thursday that they plan to carefully review a budget
task force's cuts as they work to trim the 2003-04 budget by $51 million, the
projected shortfall for next year.

"As a board, we've not yet reached any conclusions about what can go or what
could get cut," board Vice President Ingrid Taylor said during a morning news
conference. "We'll be working to protect our precious classroom dollars and to
work collaboratively with our community."

Board members said they were especially interested in the task force's proposal
to take $29.5 million from the district's fund balance -- in essence, a savings
account -- and to cut programs that help struggling readers and give more money
to schools with high numbers of low-income students. The task force recommended
eliminating the programs and hiring 74 literary specialists in their place.

Accrediting team endorses ACC

Austin Community College got a solid endorsement from its accrediting agency
Thursday when a visiting team offered a pat on the back and the promise of
renewed accreditation later this year.

The school's 10-year review by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
included detailed data examination and interviews with campus officials.

"I can tell you from a perspective of a couple of decades of chairing committees
that the number of recommendations and the type of recommendations in the report
today are very, very ordinary," said Arnold Oliver, chairman of the visiting
team. "You will have most of them resolved within a few weeks."

That's a change from the 1992 review, which offered 38 recommendations. Although
ACC's accreditation was reaffirmed in 1993, follow-up reports showed problems,
so in January 1996, the accrediting agency put the college on notice. Six months
later, ACC received a formal warning, which was a step away from probation and
possible removal from the organization.

Losing accreditation affects financial aid and student transfer credits. In
1997, the accrediting body restored ACC's status as a member in good standing.

Woman charged in bomb threats

A 25-year-old Austin woman was arrested and charged Thursday with calling in two
threats of pipe bombs in the Travis County Courthouse.

Sarah McCollum called 911 from a courthouse pay phone for one of two threats
made Tuesday, authorities said. Sheriff's spokesman Roger Wade said McCollum was
facing a hearing that day on charges of credit card abuse and wanted to disrupt
court proceedings.

She is charged with making a terroristic threat, a third-degree felony.
Operations at the courthouse were not affected by the threats.

Security is focus of UT meeting

Experts discussing unexpected vulnerabilities in homeland security will be
featured tonight at a town hall meeting at the University of Texas.

Brief presentations on a handful of topics, such as "The Internet and National
Security" and "The Impact on Banking and Insurance," will precede a
question-and-answer session for the audience.

The 7 p.m. public meeting will be in the Bass Lecture Hall at the LBJ School at
Red River and Dean Keeton streets. Friday's session is part of the 2003 Town
Hall Meeting Series at the LBJ School.

Road work in East Austin

A 20-month project to add a turn lane, shoulders and sidewalks to portions of
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard should begin today.

The $1.5 million project will run from Perez Street to Airport Boulevard and
widen the road to accommodate the new additions.

Some lanes and some side streets will be closed.

TEXAS DIGEST

STATE

370 Army reservists mobilized

About 370 Army reservists in Texas have been mobilized as part of President
Bush's war on terrorism, Army officials said Thursday.

The mobilization includes about 295 personnel from two transportation units in
Houston and more than 75 soldiers from the 493rd Engineer Group in Dallas. The
reservists will move to Fort Hood on March 18.

This brings the number of reservists mobilized from the 90th Regional Support
Command in North Little Rock, Ark., to 5,800.

PHARR

Teens accused in relative's killing

Three teenagers have been accused of strangling the 57-year-old grandmother of
one of them to steal her car.

Assistant Police Chief Ruben Villescas said the teens might be certified as
adults and charged with capital murder.

Police say an off-duty officer spotted two boys, a 14-year-old and a
15-year-old, and a 15-year-old girl standing next to the car Wednesday night.
The officer had earlier detained the teens when they were found jumping over
fences into yards of a residential subdivision.

The officer discovered that the car belonged to Jan Barnum, the girl's
grandmother and guardian. Police attempted to take the girl home, but there was
no answer. Officers used a key to enter the apartment, where Barnum's body was
found.

The teens were taken to the juvenile detention center in Pharr on Thursday.

MIDLAND

Post office picked for anthrax test

Midland's post office has been selected as one of 14 sites across the country to
test a new anthrax-detection system.

The Biological Detecting System probably will be in place in Midland in May as
part of the effort to prevent bioterrorism attacks, said Jim Coultress,
communications program specialist for the U.S. Postal Service.

The Postal Service is testing the system in Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey, New
York, California, Washington, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Florida. Midland
was chosen because of its climate and geographical location.

The Postal Service expects to deploy 280 systems to mail-processing centers
nationwide in September, Coultress said.

Compiled from staff and wire reports

POLITICS

Campaign filings

Blanco school board, Place 4: David Behrends (i), 48, veterinarian.

Manor City Council: (i) Sharon L. Snowden, 50, retired.

Bastrop school board, Place 2: Carol Schumacher, 42, homemaker; Debra R.
Thorne-Francis, 39, teacher.

Bastrop school board, Place 1: (i) John Blair Thrift, 59, retired state
employee.

Elgin school board, Place 3: Robert A. Mauck Jr., 49, retired police officer;
Gary Warren Null, 54, commercial roofing manager.

Elgin school board, Place 6: Donald Wesley Hudson, 58, store manager.

Elgin City Council, Ward 1: Theresa McShan, 43, administrative assistant;
Theresa Hatch-Scott, 45, insurance investigator.

Elgin City Council, Ward 3: Brian Lundgren, 41, manager.

Elgin City Council, Ward 4: Gladys F. Markert, 41, accountant.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               61 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           March 19, 2003, Wednesday

Official: Bush set to help if war hurts the industry

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 533 words


WASHINGTON -- Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said Tuesday that President
Bush is poised to assist the nation's airlines if the beleaguered industry is
further undermined by war in Iraq.

Mineta's remarks were the first signal that the Bush administration is prepared
to support additional airline industry aid. And it came as lawmakers on Capitol
Hill are trying to assess what provisions to include in a new financial aid
package.

On Monday, bankrupt United Airlines forecast a first-quarter operating loss of
$877 million and said for the first time publicly that going out of business
altogether is a "distinct possibility" as war looms.

U.S. ECONOMY

Fed holds rates steady

but is ready to act quickly

WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve decided to leave interest rates unchanged at a
41-year low.

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his colleagues held out the
prospect, however, that they would move quickly to cut rates if fallout from the
military conflict with Iraq threatens to push the country back into recession.

The Fed's decision to leave its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at
1.25 percent disappointed investors who had been hoping the Fed would cut rates
again, driving the funds rate to 1 percent or lower, a level last seen when
Dwight Eisenhower was president.

HOUSING

Weather, economy cause

construction to drop 11%

WASHINGTON -- The number of housing construction projects for which builders
broke ground in February plunged by 11 percent, the sharpest decline in nearly a
decade, as bad weather and an uncertain economic climate took its toll.

Housing construction dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.62
million units in February, representing an 11 percent decline from January, the
Commerce Department reported Tuesday.

The level of housing activity in February was weaker than the 1.75 million pace
economists were forecasting.

PETROLEUM

Price drops 9%, but is

expected to stay volatile

NEW YORK -- The price of oil dropped 9 percent, falling to its lowest level in
more than two months as traders bet that the impending invasion of Iraq will go
smoothly and that global stockpiles of crude are sufficient to offset any supply
disruptions.

The April futures contract fell $3.26 to $31.67 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the lowest close since Jan. 8.

However, with U.S. supplies low and uncertainty in the Middle East high, traders
said petroleum prices likely will remain volatile in the short term.

SOFTWARE

Oracle sees first increase in revenue in two years

SAN FRANCISCO -- Business software maker Oracle Corp. reported higher quarterly
profits and delivered its first sales gains in two years, but then warned the
looming Iraq war may hobble its comeback.

The company earned $571.3 million, or 11 cents a share, in the three months that
ended Feb. 28. That represented a 12 percent improvement from net income of $508
million, or 9 cents a share, at the same time last year.

In another positive sign, Oracle's revenue for the quarter totaled $2.31
billion, a 2 percent increase from $2.25 billion at the same time last year.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Norman Mineta

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               63 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

War on Iraq: Road to war

BYLINE: Sources: American-Statesman research, staff and wire reports,
GlobalSecurity.org

SECTION: News; Pg. A9c

LENGTH: 2175 words


1990s: United Nations struggles to disarm Iraq after Gulf War

1991: The Security Council adopts Resolution 687, which sets up weapons

inspections, and Iraq accepts it. Coalition jets begin enforcing a

no-fly zone over Iraqi territory north of the 36th parallel. The U.N.

Special Commission is created to carry out Resolution 687.

1992: The Security Council states that Iraq is in material breach of

Resolution 687. British and American jets begin enforcing a no-fly zone

south of the 32nd parallel in response to Iraqi airstrikes against its

civilians.

1993: The United States launches a cruise missile at Iraqi intelligence

headquarters in retaliation for an assassination plot against former

President Bush.

1994: Iraq threatens to cease cooperation with the U.N. committee and

the International Atomic Energy Agency and moves troops toward Kuwait.

The United States responds with a troop buildup in the region.

1995: Iraq admits it has a biological weapons program.

1996: The southern no-fly zone is extended to the 33rd parallel in

response to Iraqi movement into Kurdish-held territory.

1997: Iraq states that it will no longer accept U.S. personnel on the

U.N. committee and demands that U-2 flights end.

1998: Saddam declares that the U.N. committee will not be allowed in

Iraq again.

January 2002: After Sept. 11 attacks, Bush includes Iraq in 'axis of

evil'

In his State of the Union address in January, President Bush labels

Iran, Iraq and North Korea the "axis of evil":

"Iraq continues to flaunt its hostility toward America and to support

terror. The Iraqi regime has plotted to develop anthrax and nerve gas

and nuclear weapons for over a decade. This is a regime that has already

used poison gas to murder thousands of its own citizens, leaving the

bodies of mothers huddled over their dead children. This is a regime

that agreed to international inspections, then kicked out the

inspectors. This is a regime that has something to hide from the

civilized world.

States like these, and their terrorist allies, constitute an axis of

evil, arming to threaten the peace of the world. By seeking weapons of

mass destruction, these regimes pose a grave and growing danger. They

could provide these arms to terrorists, giving them the means to match

their hatred. They could attack our allies or attempt to blackmail the

United States. In any of these cases, the price of indifference would be

catastrophic."

September-October 2002: an appeal to the U.N., an OK from Congress

Citing a "grave and gathering danger," President Bush demands on Sept.

12, 2002, that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein surrender his weapons

program to international inspectors immediately or face U.S. action.

Bush appeals for world support, but he indicates that the United States

is ready to act on its own in the absence of broad international

backing.

Bush orders Secretary of State Colin Powell to begin intensive

diplomacy aimed at crafting a U.N. Security Council resolution that

would amount to an ultimatum for Iraq: Comply or face the prospect of

attack.

Congress adopts a joint resolution authorizing the use of force against

Iraq. On Oct. 10, 2002, the Republican-controlled House passes the

measure 296-133. The Democratic-run Senate backs it 77-23 in the early

morning hours the next day.

November 2002: U.N. approves new inspections, hints at enforcement

On Nov. 8, 2002, the Security Council votes unanimously to return U.N.

weapons inspectors to Iraq, offering Baghdad a last chance to comply

with its disarmament obligations. The resolution's text recalls previous

warnings of "serious consequences" in case of noncompliance.

Secretary-General Kofi Annan urges Baghdad "to seize this opportunity"

and warns that if its defiance continues, "the Security Council must

face its responsibilities."

The resolution calls on Baghdad to cooperate "immediately,

unconditionally and actively" with the U.N. Monitoring, Verification and

Inspection Commission, led by Hans Blix, and the International Atomic

Energy Agency, led by Mohamed ElBaradei, and to provide a full

accounting of its weapons program within 30 days.

According to the resolution, false statements or omissions in the

declarations submitted by Iraq, as well as its failure to comply at any

time, would constitute a "further material breach" of its obligations.

'The Security Council, recalling all its previous relevant resolutions

. . . recalls, in that context, that the Council has repeatedly warned

Iraq that it will face serious consequences as a result of its continued

violations of its obligations.'

--U.N. Security Council Resolution 1441

Passed unanimously Nov. 8, 2002

February 2003: Powell goes before U.N. to make the case for war

In a nearly 90-minute presentation Feb. 5, Secretary of State Colin

Powell offers new and detailed evidence that Iraq is hiding banned

weapons from U.N. inspectors and associating with terrorists.

Powell's presentation fails to convince skeptical members of the U.N.

Security Council, such as Russia, France and China, which endorse

continued inspections and diplomacy.

During his address, Powell reveals sensitive intelligence material,

including satellite reconnaissance photographs, tips from Iraqi

defectors and intercepted telephone conversations in which Iraqi

military officers purportedly discuss clearing away compromising

evidence from sites before the arrival of U.N. weapons inspectors.

Powell also says Iraqi intelligence officers have met at least eight

times with high-level al Qaeda members.

vv

In a move that for the Bush administration stalls momentum toward war,

chief weapons inspector Hans Blix and atomic energy agency chief Mohamed

ElBaradei submit to the Security Council on Feb. 14 a report that

downplays the lack of Iraqi cooperation and suggests that more time is

needed for inspectors.

March 17, 2003: Bush tells Saddam to leave Iraq or face attack

In a speech broadcast around the world, the president says the United

States will attack Iraq unless Saddam Hussein flees his country within

48 hours.

Summing up once more the rationale for military action, Bush says

Saddam has a history of hating America, has ties to terrorists and is a

destabilizing force in the Middle East. Primarily, he says, Saddam could

turn his weapons of mass destruction over to terrorist groups.

The address comes a day after Bush met in the Azores Islands with the

leaders of U.N. Security Council members Britain and Spain.

In closing the summit, the three give the rest of the council one day

to endorse the use of force to compel Iraq's immediate disarmament.

In the preceding days, Bush struggled without success to gain the nine

votes needed for approval of a resolution by the 15-member council. In

the end, Bush is able to gain the public support of only Britain, Spain

and Bulgaria.

Even gaining the nine votes would have yielded only a symbolic,

political victory, since France had stated it would use its veto power

to stop U.S.-supported language to allow the use of military force.

IRAQ FACT FILE

Iraq at a glance

Size: 168,753 square miles

Population: About 24 million

Baghdad: 4.9 million

Official language: Arabic

HIV/AIDS rate: Less than 0.01 percent

Arable land: 12 percent

Oil reserves: 115 billion barrels

Imports: $13.8 billion annually, primarily from Egypt, Russia, France

and Vietnam

Exports: $21.8 billion annually, primarily to Russia, France,

Switzerland and China

Politics: Dominated by Saddam Hussein's Baath Party

Babylon to Baghdad

The Greeks identified Iraq as Mesopotamia, 'the land between the rivers'

Tigris and Euphrates.

3500-3000 B.C.: The Sumerians develop the wheel, writing, counting and

calendars.

597 B.C.: Nebuchadnezzar builds the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, one of

the seven wonders of the ancient world. Nebuchadnezzar's is the last

native-born regime in Mesopotamia until the 20th century.

331 B.C.: Alexander the Great seizes Babylon, declares it his capital.

Dies there in 323 B.C.

A.D. 637: Arabs bring Islam to Iraq.

762-63: Baghdad becomes the center of Islamic civilization.

1534: Ottoman Turks, under Suleyman the Magnificent, seize Iraq.

1914-18: Ottoman Empire sides with Germany against Allies in World War

I.

1920: League of Nations gives Britain a mandate over Iraq.

1921: Arab Prince Faisal, who had fought with British liaison officer

T.E. Lawrence ('Lawrence of Arabia') against the Ottomans, is brought to

Iraq and chosen king in a referendum.

1932: Britain grants Iraq its independence.

1958: Gen. Abdel Karim Qassem topples the monarchy.

1968: Baath Party ascends to power, with Saddam Hussein as vice

president

1979: Saddam becomes president.

1980-88: Iraq-Iran war kills millions.

1990: Iraq invades Kuwait.

1991: Persian Gulf War.

2003: After calling for 'regime change,' President Bush orders U.S.

forces to invade Iraq.

Iraq's climate

Similar to that of the southwestern United States with hot, dry

summers, cold winters and a pleasant spring and fall.

Temperature: Averages range from higher than 120 degrees Fahrenheit in

July and August to below freezing in January.

Rainfall: Almost all of it occurs from December through April; more

abundant in the mountains.

Summer months are marked by two kinds of dry wind systems: the

southerly sharqi occurs from April to early June and again from late

September through November; the northerly shamal prevails from mid-June

to mid-September. Accompanying dust storms may keep aircraft grounded.

For the military, dust clouds caused by vehicles during the dry season

will increase detection in the desert. Flash-flooding may hinder

resupply efforts in the rainy season. Air operations may be reduced

during windy season.

More Web resources

www.uruklink.net/eindex.htm

State-run English-language home page links to Saddam's biography and

text of his speeches, government departments and universities.

www.lib.utexas.edu/maps/iraq.html

UT's Perry-Castaneda Map Library's extensive collection of modern and

historical maps of Iraq and Baghdad.

www.un.org/Depts/unscom/

Home page for UNSCOM, which sought to disarm Iraq from 1991-99; site

includes links to Security Council resolutions.

www.un.org/Depts/unmovic/

UNMOVIC home page; includes links to Resolution 1441 and inspectors'

reports.

Vast oil reserves

at stake in Iraq war

About 115 billion barrels.

That's how much oil experts say is oozing under Iraq, home to the

world's second-largest proven reserve -- right behind Saudi Arabia.

The proven crude oil reserves in Texas would yield only about 5.2

billion barrels.

Of the dozens of oil fields in Iraq, several hold in excess of 10

billion barrels of crude oil. The average barrel of oil will produce

about 17 gallons of gasoline.

Saddam's power

fueled by tribalism

The nature of Saddam Hussein's regime is rooted in the nature of Iraq.

In the aftermath of World War I, the British jammed Sunni Arabs, Shiite

Arabs and non-Arab Kurds, along with a cluster of other ethnic and

sectarian groups, into a contrived state called Iraq.

The secular Baath Party seized power in 1968, led by Saddam's cousin,

Gen. Ahmed Hassan Bakr. The nationalist, pan-Arab government -- of which

Saddam was vice president before ascending to the presidency in 1979 --

used its oil riches in the 1970s to win over rival Iraqi groups. The

party was successful as most tribal groups benefited from government

largess that provided health care, education and housing.

In the 1991 Gulf War, Saddam faced a U.S.-led force and simultaneous

rebellions by Shiites in the south and Kurds in the north. Saddam

jettisoned more than eight decades of effort by kings, military

dictators and himself to nurture national unity. He held on to political

power by reviving a basic but divisive element of Iraqi identity:

tribalism.

Sheiks were summoned to Baghdad; the tribal leaders won money, access

to his offices, seats in parliament and guns in exchange for their

allegiance.

Islamic divide

The death of Islam's prophet, Muhammad, in 632 created a crisis about

who should be his successor. One faction favored Ali, the prophet's

son-in-law and father of his only grandsons.

The dispute split Islam into its two largest branches: the Sunnis

(followers of the Sunna, 'the proper way of life ordained by God') and

the Shiites (from Shiat Ali or Party of Ali).

Shiites: Make up about 60 percent of Iraq's population.

Sunnis: Despite making up only about 37 percent of Iraqis, they have

dominated Iraq politically. Saddam Hussein, a Sunni Muslim, claims

descent from Muhammad.

The Kurds: Non-Arab Sunni Muslims; they're the world's largest ethnic

group without an official homeland.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: U.N. weapons monitors prepare their vehicle before evacuating their
headquarters in Baghdad in December 1998. // The nation 'will not permit the
world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive
weapons,' Bush warns. // As he lays out the case for action against Iraq,
President Bush challenges the United Nations to defend its legitimacy. // Hans
Blix // Mohamed ElBaradei // An inspector visits the Al-Majed stores for
electronics and corrosion-resistant materials in Baghdad in January. // One of
Secretary of State Colin Powell's slides appears to show an effort among Iraqi
military officers to cover up illegal weapons. // Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
brandishes a sword given to him last October before swearing himself in as
president for another seven years.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               67 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 8, 2003, Thursday

ACC has much work to do with its new revenue

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 414 words


It is a testament to the value of Austin Community College that voters gave the
school a tax increase even in this tense economic climate.

Texas has shifted the cost of government onto the local property owner, and
property taxes have reached a burdensome level in this region. Despite that
reality, voters determined that ACC is an asset that must be maintained and
added 5 cents to their tax rate to see that it continues to serve Central Texas.

Thousands of students have been denied classes at ACC in recent years because so
many sections were at capacity. With no more space and no money for additional
faculty, the school couldn't grow. That will change with a 4-cent increase in
the nickel tax base and another penny to pay for a $99 million bond issue for
construction.

Rafael Quintanilla, chairman of the ACC Board of Trustees, said the college will
move fast to provide more classroom space, new teachers and additional sections
of the most sought classes. He said he expects more classes will be offered in
the health sciences, English and Spanish, among others.

The board has already approved a contract to expand the health sciences building
at the Eastview Campus, and a contract to build a new campus in South Austin at
Stassney Lane and Manchaca Road should be forthcoming.

"Meeting the unmet need is our highest priority," he said. "We're going to go
fast. We can't afford to wait."

Because a tax increase proposition failed three years ago, ACC has been on a
tight budget. It has deferred maintenance and technology and halted its building
program. So it is right for the school to go at full speed to make up for lost
time.

ACC has had to weather periods of trouble with revolving administrators,
accreditation problems and budget deficits. ACC President Richard Fonte overcame
the budget and accreditation shortcomings but became snagged in other
difficulties. Fonte, who joined ACC in February 1997, has announced that he will
leave at the end of next year.

In the meantime, there is plenty of work ahead for Fonte and the board. There
are budget cuts to make, new construction to oversee and additional classes to
integrate into the curriculum. It is an exciting time for the college, its
faculty, students and administrators.

But with those great expectations come the responsibility to spend the
taxpayers' money wisely and efficiently, and to sustain ACC as one of the vital
institutions of higher learning in Central Texas.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               69 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 24, 2003, Saturday

Letters

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1127 words


Real women's rights?

Frida Ghitis' rhapsodic description of the freedoms she found "beneath the veil"
at a wedding in Kuwait was astonishingly naive, considering her background as a
journalism professional (May 19 column, "My big, fat Kuwaiti wedding: A look
beneath the veil"). "The veil alone, worn by choice, can cover a joyful woman"
is a laudable sentiment, but it completely ignores the majority of women in the
Muslim world who do not have a choice when it comes to wearing the veil, or
equally participating in society for that matter. These ladies with their
mega-bucks showed us not how "free" they are, but how they have latitude based
on the cash in their oil-rich bank accounts. How many women in the Arab world
can claim the same equality?

Ghitis' "big, fat Kuwaiti wedding" was a big, fat stinker of an op-ed if she
wants us to think that women's rights are alive and flourishing because she got
to go to a wedding put on by a wealthy Arab family.

JULIET DERVIN

Austin

Tax cut absurd

I am one of the "lucky" folks columnist Matthew Miller alludes to in his May 22
column, "Credit God for talent, but pay the IRS."

Congress should be working tirelessly for the "unlucky" in our midst: the
children who lack adequate nutrition, the elderly unable to afford necessary
prescription drugs, the public school administrators and teachers asked to do
more with less. That a tax cut for the wealthy is even being considered in this
economic climate is absurd.

President Bush would be well-advised to remember that luck is fickle, and so are
voters.

MELISSA COBB LACY

Austin

Add alcohol to the list

I want to strongly second the idea of a dollar-per-pack increase in the state's
cigarette tax to help close the state budget gap and avoid massive cuts in
worthwhile programs (May 20 article, "State budge writers thrown another
curve"). Further, while Texas is looking at ways to refill our coffers, we
should also consider increasing the per-bottle tax on alcohol.

Cigarettes and alcohol are both unnecessary products that can have harmful
effects on the health of their users and overall society. Higher taxes on both
will bring the state greater income from those who continue to buy them, and may
encourage others, particularly young people, not to begin buying them in the
first place. Whether through additional resources or reduced consumption, Texans
win.

PAUL VON WUPPERFELD

Dallas

Protecting tobacco lobby?

Why is Gov. Rick Perry so adamantly against an increase in cigarette taxes (May
21 article, "Perry: Bad drivers should pay a price")? None of the reasons
against it make sense, except to the the tobacco industry. Does the tobacco
lobby have this much control over Perry? How much has the tobacco lobby spent
and continues to spend to control this issue?

It is ludicrous that the governor wants to spend $10 million to study cows while
at the same time opposing a tax that would have a major impact on the deficit.
It is actually a sad commentary on the so-called leadership of this state.

JERRY GOODRICH

Cedar Park

Flaw of capitalism

Re: May 12 editorial, "Future looks bleak for many Texans, thanks to GOP House":

Do Republicans in the Texas House really believe that if you're on the bottom
you probably deserve to be there?

During years of teaching economics at the University of Texas, I emphasized the
truth of the Republican mantra: that capitalism is the most productive economic
system society has yet devised. But I also emphasized something Republican
administrations seem to forget. Capitalism has no mechanism for taking care of
those who cannot earn their own way: children, the severely handicapped, the
elderly, those who want to work but can't find a job, those who work but cannot
earn enough to survive. For these groups, a socialist economic system might well
be better.

I do not believe Democrats or Republicans want to give a free ride to those who
can earn their own way. But if Republicans want the advantages of our economic
system, their policies need to do a better job of addressing its major flaw.

DONALD C. LELONG

Georgetown

Music network worthy

Re: May 19 editorial, "McCracken would be good fit for Wynn's team":

This editorial describes the Austin Music Network cable channel as a prime
example of fiscal waste "of dubious value that does absolutely nothing for the
city." This viewpoint is actually a prime example of the kind of thinking that
will cause our blundering city leaders to eventually destroy one of the main
resources that makes our city so unique: its music scene.

The city likes to exploit its musical reputation for marketing purposes. It is
capitalized on with instruments displayed at the airport and slogans touting the
outlandish title of "Live Music Capital of the World." With venues closing right
and left because of high property taxes, the Austin Music Network is one of the
few concrete ways the city supports the music scene, and the channel's
uniqueness enhances Austin's reputation. Which other city has its own music
network?

ALEX COKE

Austin

alexcoke@xs4all.nl

MAY 21 ARTICLE, 'WHICH "IDOL" WILL AMERICA CHOOSE?'

Stick with the news

It's a sad day when any newspaper must turn to the television for its top story.
I could hardly believe my eyes when I saw the lead headline Tuesday. "American
Idol"? It's not even newsworthy, and certainly not worth putting on the top of
the front page. That is prime territory for important information, not TV
drivel. The newspaper could be telling us about what happened to all those guys
from Enron, or about what's going to happen now that we haven't found weapons of
mass destruction in Iraq. That's real news.

I don't watch TV, and I don't read the newspaper to learn about television.

The American-Statesman should stick with news. Let TV stay on TV.

STACI PRIEST

Pflugerville

Not worthy of front page

I can only hope that the American-Statesman editors were so inundated with
e-mail, faxes and letters from frustrated Austinites concerned with the
priorities of their local newspaper that they didn't have time to watch the
"American Idol" finale.

The American-Statesman needs to get its priorities straight. "American Idol" is
entertainment, not news -- certainly not front-page news.

TRACY WERNER

Austin

Important news?

Since when does a TV show qualify as the most important story of the day?

I'm one of those dinosaurs who still reads the newspaper every day, but stunts
like putting an "American Idol" article on the front page, along with the sloppy
journalism becoming so common in print, may change my mind. Now that I can read
the comics online, newspapers don't have much hold left on me.

ERIC ESTLUND

Austin

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Runner-up Clay Aiken, left, congratulates new 'American Idol' Ruben
Studdard after the big announcement Wednesday night .

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               70 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 12, 2003, Thursday

ZZ Gets Back on Top of the Game

BYLINE: Joe Gross, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 883 words


ZZ Top was a perfect band.

Actually, a perfect band twice, in two very different ways. And maybe they can
be a perfect band again, but you aren't going to be allowed to decide because
Top's new album, "Mescalero," which was due to arrive in stores in April, has
been pulled off the schedule. So instead of coming to the Erwin Center on Friday
promoting a new album, they are here just to be here.

For the past 30-odd years, ZZ Top has been wrestling with tradition and
technology, looking to their home state's musical past and roaring into MTV's
future.

Formed in 1969, the band released "First Album" a year later. It feels
tentative, the sound of garage dudes looking at their roots and trying to figure
out what to dig up. But throw on 1972's "Rio Grande Mud" or 1973's "Tres
Hombres" and witness one of rock's most seamless aesthetics finding its groove.

And I do mean groove. Lesser bands have built whole careers on the whiplash
riffs Billy Gibbons tossed off like spare change to a bartender. Bassist Dusty
Hill and drummer Frank Beard never sounded ostentatious; they just were an
integral part of Top's dirty, boozy sound, and those early Top albums are
boogie-rock's Platonic ideal.

After "Tres Hombres" broke the band nationally, the gnarly Texas tripod toured
like salesmen until 1976, when they took a three-year break.

They began to slicken their sound with 1979's "Deguello." But it wasn't until
1983's landmark "Eliminator" that the band became a worldwide smash. Combining
blues rock with glossy synths shouldn't have worked, but MTV loved "Gimme All
Your Lovin'," "Sharp Dressed Man" and "Legs." ZZ Top had wacky beards, a
fondness for cool cars, guitars that spun around and good-looking women, and
outta nowhere, the Texas boogie band that could became perfect MTV weirdos,
right at home next to Duran Duran and Madonna.

But the '90s were a tougher sell. Those who live by the goofy video die by the
goofy video, and when grunge came along, funny rock bands went out. The band
struggled to find a place in post-Nirvana America. While "Antenna" in 1994,
'96's "Rhythmeen" and '99's "XXX" tried to balance the old and the new, the
market wasn't interested. There goes perfection.

This year's "Mescalero" (it had already shipped to critics) feels stronger than
their '90s work. Produced by Gibbons in the band's studio, "Mescalero" doesn't
try to embrace old school blues grime, nor does the band drown the songs in
gloss . They still rely too much on synthetic rhythms, but Gibbons knows his way
around a riff, and Hill's bass is a fuzzed-out warble; just check out the menace
he generates on the title track.

Oh wait, you can't. "Mescalero" has been held indefinitely, and its future seems
in doubt. Such are the vagaries of the current major label music climate, so
Friday night's show might be your only chance to see these songs as ZZ intended
them, shooting for perfection once again.

To smoke or not to smoke

Now that Brewster McCracken has won the City Council runoff, Austin smokers (and
some club and bar owners) are breathing a little easier. "I'm still opposed to
the smoking ban," McCracken says from his office. "I have not talked to with
Mayor-elect (Will) Wynn or Mayor pro-tempore (Jackie) Goodman about this issue,
so I don't know what the timetable is on bringing it up again." If the
anti-smoking ban coalition holds, which currently includes Wynn, Goodman and
Councilman Raul Alvarez, McCracken could create a majority to overturn the ban,
but he emphasizes that the city budget is his primary concern. "The budget is
going to dwarf everything," McCracken says, "but the council is going to have to
look at this issue before Sept. 1," when the ban takes effect.

In fact, East Sixth Street Community Association (ESSCA) president Bob Woody, a
vocal opponent of the ban, sees the smoking ordinance as key to McCracken's
victory. "I think the reason we had the high turnout for this vote was the
smoking ordinance," Woody says.  On June 5, Woody's organization sent the
council a letter (via attorney Jennifer Riggs) that questioned the legality of
the ordinance on several fronts but did not specifically threaten a lawsuit.

"The ESSCA has not yet made a determination about whether to file or when to
file," Riggs said from her office on Tuesday.

In other news

The Hole in the Wall's 30th anniversary return to rock got off to a notable
start Friday evening when Roky Erickson showed up during the Nortons' set.
According to the Hole, the Nortons had been on about an hour when Roky and
brother Sumner Erickson walked in. Sumner sang a couple of Roky's songs,
including "You're Gonna Miss Me" and "Splash 1." According to manager Matt
Allen, "when he walked in, the place just burst into applause."

The Hole is still moving slowly on bringing live music back to the venue over
the long term; as was reported last week, nothing is scheduled after June 15.
Allen says that above all, the Hole doesn't want to charge a cover at the door,
with the bands making a percentage of the bar receipts. "We're gonna take a
couple of weeks to go over the books and see if (this cover-free policy) is
beneficial to both us and the bands," Allen says.

jgross@statesman.com; 912-5926

ZZ Top plays the Erwin Center on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               71 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 8, 2003, Friday

Gore blasts Bush on war, economy
Democrat says president distorted information on Iraq, tax cuts

BYLINE: Scott Shepard, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 696 words


NEW YORK -- Former Vice President Al Gore rebuffed efforts to lure him into the
presidential campaign Thursday but delivered a blistering critique of the Bush
administration, accusing it of fostering false impressions about the necessity
of war with Iraq and the economic benefits of cutting taxes.

In his first major speech since declining in December to seek a rematch with
President Bush in 2004, Gore said that the president led the country into war
with Iraq by distorting information about the actions and intentions of former
leader Saddam Hussein.

As a result, he said, "too many of our soldiers are paying the highest price for
the strategic miscalculations, serious misjudgments and historic mistakes that
have put them and our nation in harm's way."

Gore disputed the administration's assertions that Iraq had links to al Qaeda,
the terrorist organization responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks on the United
States. He also denounced administration claims that Baghdad was on the verge of
developing nuclear weapons, that Iraqis would welcome a U.S. occupation and that
the international community would rally behind America's victory.

The administration was "just dead wrong," he said, adding that the same is true
of Bush's handling of other important matters.

"The president's mishandling of and selective use of the best evidence available
on the threat posed by Iraq is pretty much the same as the way he intentionally
distorted the best available evidence on climate change, and rejected the best
available evidence on the threat posed to America's economy by his tax and
budget proposals," Gore added.

In noting the loss of 3 million jobs since Bush took office, Gore joked, "I was
the first one laid off. You never forget something like that. It was just before
noon on January 22, 2001."

In Crawford, where Bush is vacationing, White House spokeswoman Claire Buchan
dismissed Gore's criticism, saying, "I think the American people know the
president's commitment to the security of the United States and to winning the
war on terrorism, our economic security."

Gore, who served 16 years in Congress before his eight years as vice president
in the Clinton White House, spoke about 40 minutes alone on stage at New York
University, addressing some 600 members of an influential online political
activist group, Moveon.org.

Gore received stirring applause and several standing ovations from the
sympathetic audience, the most spirited coming in response to his allegations
that the Bush administration has used the anti-terrorism Patriot Act to spy on
Americans and to place some terrorist suspects in legal limbo beyond the
authority of U.S. courts.

"And speaking of the Patriot Act, the president ought to rein in (Attorney
General) John Ashcroft and stop the gross abuses of civil rights that twice have
been documented by his own inspector general," Gore said. "And while he's at it,
he needs to rein in (Defense Secretary) Donald Rumsfeld and get rid of that
(department's) 'Total Information Awareness' program that's right out of George
Orwell's '1984.' "

Some in the audience hoped Gore would announce that he had reconsidered his
earlier decision and would seek the 2004 Democratic nomination. But he
disappointed them when, near the end of his remarks, he expressed pride in the
nine candidates seeking the nomination and said, "I am not going to join them."
He said he would eventually endorse one of the nine and would continue to speak
out on political issues.

Gore won the popular vote against Bush in 2000, but lost the White House as a
result of the Electoral College vote that favored Bush, 271-266, in one of the
closest presidential elections in U.S. history.

In recent days, amid increasing concern within the party that none of the nine
Democrats seeking the 2004 nomination can defeat Bush, some party veterans have
openly urged Gore to reconsider and join the contest.

"Right now, the Democratic voice is not a single voice, it is not a chorus, it
is a battle," former New York Gov. Mario Cuomo said in a radio interview this
week. "You need a single voice. Gore could be that."

sshepard@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Al Gore: Says he will support one of the nine Democratic candidates for
president.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               74 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 6, 2003, Saturday

With second-generation Prius,it's easier to drive green
Larger, speedier model may make Toyota's gas-electric hybrid worth a new look

BYLINE: Pete Szilagyi, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1513 words


Andrew Grant's yellow Toyota Prius taxicab may seem small and vulnerable but it
holds its own amid the full-sized Chevy and Ford cabs jostling for position on
Vancouver, British Columbia's, downtown streets.

When the care and feeding numbers are run, the gasoline-electric hybrid Toyota
looks even better -- 40 to 50 miles per equivalent U.S. gallon of gas, and fewer
maintenance and repair bills than he has had with conventional cabs, according
to Grant.

The Canadian cabbie is on his second Prius taxi and awaiting delivery of the
third. His first Prius, driven 22 to 24 hours a day, had reached about 200,000
miles when Toyota offered to buy it for analysis.

Grant was given a replacement Prius and has a 2004 model on order. Notably
larger and quicker with an even thriftier gasoline-electric hybrid drivetrain,
the new Prius will be more suitable for taxi work and families that need room to
stretch out.

October's planned debut of the second-generation Prius (Latin for "to go
before") has created a buzz among owners who have elevated Grant and his Priuses
to legend in online forums and blogs that discuss the economical, clean-running
sedan.

The '04 Prius, which I recently road tested for an afternoon, showcases the
company's Synergy hybrid drivetrain, which next year or in 2005 will also make
an appearance in Toyota's Highlander SUV and the Lexus RX SUV.

If enough drivers accept the hybrid Toyotas and others from Honda and those to
come from Ford and General Motors, hybrids would be the interim "green" vehicle
before affordable hydrogen fuel-cell cars are available in 15 or 20 years. The
federal government is offering a $2,000 income tax deduction to speed the switch
to hybrids; many states (not including Texas) dangle tax incentives as well.

Since the original Prius was introduced in 2000, U.S. sales rose from 5,600 the
first year to 20,000 in 2002. In Central Texas, 364 Priuses had been purchased
from its introduction in 2000 through this June, according to Toyota's area
distributor.

The company's market research indicates buyers typically have a commitment to
the environment, though Austin's weak Prius sales don't reflect the
environmental ardor professed by many citizens. For example, drivers in
Portland, Ore., a metropolitan area slightly smaller than Austin, bought nearly
three times as many Priuses. Generous Oregon tax breaks surely helped sales
there, but Texans in general were slow to accept the original Prius, said Craig
Marckwardt, an official with distributor Gulf States Toyota in Houston.

"The Prius operates better in an urban setting, and the distances are so great
in Texas," Marckwardt said. "And I'm not sure Texans are as environmentally
concerned as people in Los Angeles, San Francisco or Portland. Also, the gas
here is 50 cents cheaper than in L.A. so there's less incentive."

Toyota has made the new Prius affordable (about $20,500, same as the previous
model) and fun to drive, though it has idiosyncratic styling that not all will
like. The interior is an aesthetic and ergonomic triumph, with a sophisticated,
well-crafted design and advanced technical features unusual for a car in its
price class.

The Prius is also impressive from behind the wheel. It scoots. But some buyers
may never be able to boast to their neighbors about getting 60 miles per gallon.
Real-world gas mileage often is less than advertised.

Now a hatchback with roomy storage behind the rear seat, the '04 Prius has moved
from the EPA compact to midsize class. Though 5 inches longer and an inch wider
than the original Prius, it's still fairly narrow.

Toyota's Synergy hybrid system is similar in configuration and operation to the
original Prius', but the gasoline and electric motors are gutsier, and the
electrical components, programming and accessories are more efficient.

Drivetrain components include a 1.5-liter, 76-horsepower gas engine and a
50-kilowatt, 67-horsepower electric motor fed by several batteries under the
rear seat.

In low-demand driving, on flat roads at a leisurely pace, the Prius is powered
solely by the electric motor. At other speeds and loads, the Prius' complex
computer network starts the gas engine to provide a boost and act as a generator
to recharge the batteries, which Toyota estimates will last at least 150,000
miles with no outside charging. (Vancouver's Grant says he never has had a
battery failure, even at 200,000 miles.) The Prius seamlessly switches between
power sources while an animated display on the dashboard informs occupants of
how power is being distributed and reports instant and cumulative fuel mileage.

With the electric motor helping out more in city driving, the preliminary EPA
mileage rating is 60 mpg city, 50 mpg highway. The EPA average of 55 is 7 mpg
better than the '03 Prius'.

Mileage on the original Prius was substantially affected by the air conditioner,
which required the gasoline engine to be running constantly. With an air
conditioner that's now fully electric and powered by the car's batteries, the
'04 Prius should operate more efficiently on summer days.

I drove the Prius on a hot afternoon with the air conditioner blowing
constantly, not ideal weather to measure fuel efficiency in any car. Cumulative
fuel mileage was 37.3 after two hours in congested city traffic, with brief,
fast freeway spurts, also rural highways and several long uphills. That's
exceptional for this type of driving in any vehicle but well under the Prius'
combined EPA estimate of 55.

More frugal driving on the same trip probably would have resulted in mileage in
the 40s. The instant fuel-economy readout will aid drivers trying to squeeze
every gallon.

Starting the 2004 Prius is unconventional. A blunt plastic "key" is inserted
into a dashboard receptacle to unlock the system. After the parking brake is
disengaged, the driver pushes a power button that starts the Synergy system,
which is silent. The "Ready" light indicates it's on.

The stubby gear selector, on the dashboard next to the steering wheel, has
reverse, drive and brake (park) selections, and shifts with a touch. It operates
electronically instead of mechanically, a welcome innovation.

As with the original Prius, the '04 usually gets under way in full-electric
mode, silently moving away from a standstill, often to bystanders' amazement. As
it accelerates, the car moves into the gas-engine mode. The new Prius is
quicker, with zero to 60 mph acceleration of about 10 seconds, equivalent to
that of a four-cylinder Toyota Camry. At most stops, say, traffic signals, the
Prius sits silently with the gas engine shut off.

Dave Hermance, a Toyota engineer who regularly drives a Prius on his long
freeway commute, said the hybrid seems to get the best mileage in heavy traffic,
when speeds are fairly low and the car speeds up and slows down frequently,
which keeps the batteries well-charged and encourages use of the electric motor.

While the Prius and its chief competitor, Honda's Civic Hybrid, are often viewed
primarily as urban commuters, they are capable highway performers, as well. I
wouldn't hesitate to take a cross-country trip in either. In fact, the original
equipment 15-inch tires on the '04 Prius provide superior highway stability and
tracking compared with the first Prius' 14-inch tires.

Noise levels in the cabin are civilized, with just the hum of tires and climate
-control fan apparent. Also amenable are the seats, which feel more comfortable
than those in other small Toyotas.

Two passengers in the rear seat will have plenty of elbow and knee room; a third
adult may be uncomfortably crowded. The split seatbacks fold flat to make a
cargo floor easily accessed via the rear liftgate.

Unlike the original Prius, which had few options when introduced, the '04 can be
loaded up with extra-cost niceties. My favorite is smart entry and start, a key
that never needs to leave the driver's pocket. Door lock and ignition locks
sense a vibe and unlock when the driver reaches for the door handle. Toyota
hasn't released option prices yet, but estimates a fully loaded Prius will sell
for about $25,000.

Pete Szilagyi answers questions about cars by e-mail at petesz@macconnect. com.

2004 Toyota Prius

Base price: $19,995

Options on test vehicle: none

Freight: $485

Total: $20,480

Approxmate tax, title, license: $1,425

Sample financing: $4,381 down (20 percent) financed for 48 months at 6.5
percent. Monthly payments $416.

EPA mileage estimates: (preliminary) 60 city, 50 highway

Safety equipment: Front airbags, anti-lock brakes standard; curtain/side impact
airbags optional

Drive: Front wheels

Where made: Toyota City, Japan

Consumer information is provided by

Toyota Motor Sales USA and a credit

union. Payments are based on credit

union's prevailing rate for a 48-month

new car loan.

Summary

Highs: Quality, fuel efficiency, performance

Lows: Still kind of goofy looking

Bottom line: Masterful technology in a user-friendly package

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 2004 Toyota Prius is longer and wider, with more room for families,
than its predecessors. It also has added zip with its Synergy hybrid drivetrain.
// Inside, Toyota has made welcomed innovations from the plastic-key ignition to
the small gear selector. // The discreet gear selector doesn't allow many
choices. // New seats are more comfortable than other Toyotas. Four adults will
fit easily
five may be pushing it. // The dual electric and gasoline engines switch off as
driving conditions change. // Vancouver taxi driver Andrew Grant put about
200,000 miles on his Prius before getting another. He has a 2004 on order. // A
dashboard readout lets drivers know exactly which engine is working. It also
provides statistics on miles per gallon.A dashboard readout lets drivers know
exactly which engine is working. It also provides statistics on miles per
gallon.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               75 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 6, 2003, Saturday

A wild idea for redoing LBJ Library's plaza
The plan is to replace marble with flowers, trees, amphitheater in tribute to
Lady Bird

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 752 words


The LBJ Library and Museum, needing $30 million to repair a leaky and
ill-conceived marble plaza, is ready to rip the whole mess out and replace it
with trees, wildflowers and an amphitheater dedicated to Lady Bird Johnson.

The most extensive exterior modification in the library's 32-year history will
create a more natural setting -- a better fit for Austin's outdoorsy ethic that,
happily, will solve several nagging problems, library officials said Friday.

Heavy rains send water dripping into the building's large auditorium, located a
level below the plaza, sometimes producing a waterfall down the room's south
wall. The cavernous crawl space beneath the plaza sports stalactites from the
dissolving marble above.

"All plazas leak, basically. Ours just happens to leak more than most," said
facility manager Fletcher Burton.

"The drains were designed in Chicago, which gets a little rain all year, but in
this area, we get our rain all at once," he said. "So the drains weren't big
enough, and they used a coal tar as a waterproofer. In the Texas heat, coal tar
runs like water, so it runs down into the drain."

By scrapping the expanse of travertine marble and finished concrete -- including
the plaza's three small fountains -- the library also will be able to add badly
needed classroom space beneath the plaza, said library director Betty Sue
Flowers.

"This library is one of few presidential libraries without a classroom," she
said. "We have lots of schoolchildren coming to learn about history."

Flowers also is excited about the aesthetic possibilities for the plaza space,
which stretches from the library to the LBJ School of Public Affairs on the
University of Texas campus.

"Instead of redoing all that work and piping, we'll just make an open-air
space," she said. "As it is now, it's a place in summer and winter that is not
very hospitable. The architect was from New York. He didn't know much about the
Austin climate."

Designs are still conceptual, so the plaza's final look is likely to change as
architects and engineers are added to the process. But the centerpiece is
expected to be an outdoor amphitheater that will lead into the new classrooms.

The amphitheater would be named to honor Lady Bird Johnson, the wife of the 36th
president and Austin resident who inspires tremendous loyalty from an army of
well-wishers. Many of the renovation plans were proceeding quietly so library
leaders could surprise Mrs. Johnson -- until a U.S. appropriations bill spilled
the beans.

Although disappointed at losing the element of surprise, Flowers still expects
the project to reflect the values of Mrs. Johnson, a champion of wildflowers and
beautification projects from coast to coast. "It would be perfect to be named
after her," she said.

The renovation, estimated at $30 million, will cost roughly the same as fixing
and maintaining the plaza, said Larry Temple, president of the LBJ Foundation,
which has worked on securing federal money for the project.

UT has committed to providing half, said Pat Clubb, vice president for employee
and campus services. The federal government, which administers the library, is
on the hook for the other $15 million.

U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison persuaded her colleagues to add part of that, $5
million, to a 2004 transportation and treasury appropriations bill, approved
late Thursday by the Appropriations Committee.

As far as the U.S. Senate is concerned, that's money in the bank. Senators are
unlikely to cut a colleague's pet project, lest one of their own favored items
be axed.

However, the House companion bill does not include money for the library. If the
House balks, the money would become part of the haggling process in a conference
committee of senators and representatives.

Still, Hutchison successfully earmarked $3 million for plaza renovation last
year, spokesman Kevin Schweers said.

"Lady Bird Johnson's life's work was to beautify the landscape of our country,"
Hutchison said. "Each spring our Texas highways come alive with wildflowers that
have become her legacy. This amphitheater will be a fitting tribute to Lady
Bird's love of the outdoors."

More than 200,000 visitors are expected at the library and museum this year.
While scholars focus on the library's 40 million pages of historical documents,
many relating to Lyndon Johnson's political career, most visitors head for the
museum, which houses memorabilia.

clindell@statesman.com, (202) 887-8329

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A conceptual drawing shows how an amphitheater in a natural setting
might replace the expansive marble plaza outside the LBJ Library and Museum. The
plaza has been plagued by leaks and other problems. // An outdoor amphitheater,
wildflowers, trees and new classrooms are part of the preliminary plan for the
LBJ Library and Museum. The cost for the redesigned plaza would be about $30
million.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               77 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 1, 2003, Wednesday

Metro & State Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1285 words


CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

AUSTIN

Fire causes $15,000 in damage at Gateway church

A candle that had apparently smoldered all night sparked a fire Tuesday at
Gateway Community Church, investigators said. The fire was contained to a table
in a meeting room, but the building received moderate smoke damage, Fire
Department spokesman Jim Boynton said. The church, on Bull Creek Road just east
of MoPac Boulevard (Loop 1) and south of 45th Street, had about $15,000 in
damage. Above, firefighter Brandon Pellech moves a hose.

AUSTIN

Another would-be party leader

Austinite Sherry Boyles, former executive of the Texas Democratic Party and its
unsuccessful 2002 nominee for the Railroad Commission, announced Tuesday that
she is joining the race to serve as the party's state chairwoman.

The State Democratic Executive Committee will meet Oct. 25 to pick a replacement
for Molly Beth Malcolm, who is resigning.

"At every turn, Democrats fight for laws that would create jobs, improve our
schools and make sure we do the right thing for our fellow Texans," Boyles said.
"The Republican majority fights for their friends who got them into office with
big bucks."

Boyles joins a field that includes San Marcos lawyer Charles Soechting, state
Rep. Garnet Coleman of Houston, former Land Commissioner Garry Mauro, San
Antonio lawyer David Van Os and former Attorney General Jim Mattox.

Brackenridge honored again

Brackenridge Hospital has been ranked one of the nation's top 100 hospitals for
2002 by Solucient, a health care information company that says it judges
hospitals based on "superior clinical, operational and financial performance in
overall service."

Brackenridge, owned by the City of Austin and operated by the Seton Healthcare
Network, provides health services, including for poor and uninsured people, and
is home to the region's trauma center.

This is the third time that Brackenridge, the only Austin hospital on the latest
list, has been named to Solucient's top 100. The only other Texas hospitals on
the 2002 list are Parkland Health and Hospital Systems in Dallas and Houston
Northwest Medical Center.

Fire damages apartments

Two apartments were heavily damaged Tuesday during a fire near the University of
Texas.

The fire started about 4 p.m. in the 2500 block of San Gabriel Street, near
Guadalupe and West 29th streets. Two other apartments had smoke and water
damage. The total damage was estimated at $50,000. The fire was caused by
flammable materials left too close to a water heater, officials said.

40 held in prostitution sting

Police officers posed as prostitutes Thursday and Friday on East 12th, Chicon
and San Saba streets and on Chestnut Avenue. Forty people were arrested and face
prostitution-related charges.

Hiring a prostitute is a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to
$4,000 and a jail sentence of up to a year. Police began the sting in response
to complaints from residents.

LEANDER

Liberty Hill woman dies in wreck

A woman was killed in a car wreck Monday afternoon on U.S. 183.

Siobahn Smith, 20, of Liberty Hill was traveling south on U.S. 183 near San
Gabriel Road when she swerved and skidded into oncoming traffic, colliding with
a car.

The driver of that car, Robert Reed, 60, of Georgetown, was wearing a seat belt
and was taken to Brackenridge Hospital with minor cuts and bruises. Smith, who
was not wearing a seat belt, died at the scene.

COLLEGE STATION

A&M joins research project

Texas A&M University will share in a new research venture with the Joint
Oceanographic Institutions to read and record Earth's history and conduct other
research as part of a $450 million contract, officials said.

The 10-year agreement, signed Tuesday, will place Texas A&M at the forefront of
discoveries and will greatly benefit research at the school, said Paul Fox,
director of the ocean drilling program at the university. The contract is the
largest in the school's 127-year history.

The Texas A&M Research Foundation will manage the contract. As part of the
initiative, Texas A&M and several other institutions, including the
Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, will work on projects
that are expected to lead to new scientific advances on climate changes,
microbes and natural hazards.

TEXAS DIGEST

GALVESTON

C.J. Peters, left, director of biodefense at the University of Texas Medical
Branch, and UTMB President John Stobo announced the honor Tuesday.

UTMB named biosafety facility

The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston on Tuesday was named one of
two new biosafety research facilities that will earn the campus an even larger
role in the country's biodefense effort.

UTMB joins Boston University Medical Campus as the country's National
Biocontainment Laboratories, as designated by the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases.

UTMB's lab will receive approximately $150 million. The facility will provide
lab space for researchers from around the country, focusing on work related to
therapies, vaccines and tests for microbes that bioterrorists could use. Also,
the work will involve emerging infections such as SARS and West Nile virus.

Last month, UTMB was named one of eight regional centers for research on
biological weapons defense and the study of infectious diseases. That grant was
for $48 million over five years and was to be shared by 17 universities and
related centers in Texas and four neighboring states.

Construction of the UTMB biocontainment lab is expected to begin in January
2006.

DALLAS

Apology for displaying Nazi flag

A high school band director has apologized for a halftime performance that
included the German anthem "Deutschland Uber Alles" and a student running across
the field with a Nazi flag.

"We've apologized to the fans, to the school, to Dallas ISD," said Charles
Grissom, Paris High School's band director, who choreographed the event during
the intermission of a game last week at a Dallas high school.

"We've tried to rectify the problem," Grissom said. "Our intent was never to
cause any harm, to hurt feelings; it was to do something historical, to honor
our veterans who kept the world free."

Grissom said his intention was to have a historical performance featuring the
flags and music of the nations that fought in World War II.

SAN ANTONIO

Man charged in kidnapping

A San Antonio man has been charged with helping his brother-in-law kidnap three
children in Jourdanton in early September.

Jesse Perea, 21, was charged with three counts of kidnapping, Jourdanton Police
Chief Ronnie Lawson said. He was being held in the Atascosa County Jail in lieu
of $300,000 bail.

Perea is accused of helping 19-year-old Santos Ray Gonzalez escape with the
young children after Gonzalez allegedly abducted them from the parking lot of
the Child Protective Services office in Jourdanton on Sept. 12.

BROWNWOOD

Man claims snakebite in Wal-Mart

Authorities are trying to determine whether a man was bitten by a rattlesnake in
a Wal-Mart, as he claimed.

When firefighters arrived about 1 p.m. Monday, they found a small dead Western
Diamondback rattler in a box.

A man, whose name was not released, told firefighters he reached for a pair of
shoes in the shoe department and the snake bit his hand, fire Capt. Larry Butler
said.

The man said he stomped the snake to death, then walked to the sporting goods
section and told an employee he had been bitten, Butler said.

The man was alert when ambulance workers wheeled him out of the store and took
him to a nearby hospital, Butler said.

Compiled from staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sherry Boyles

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               79 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 19, 2003, Sunday

For about 142,000 of y'all,the state has something that might interest you

BYLINE: Katie Kennon, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 270 words


Many Texans are tightening their belts in the current lean economic climate, but
the state might be able to ease the strain for some.

The state comptroller's office today released a list of people for whom it has
received unclaimed property this year. The list includes about 142,000 Texans
who are the rightful owners of $71 million in cash and other assets.

Unclaimed property consists of forgotten deposits or rent, uncashed paychecks,
abandoned safe deposit boxes and inactive bank accounts. When property from
previous years is included, the fund contains $1 billion. There is no time limit
to reclaim property.

"With so much money waiting to be claimed, it is important to check the
unclaimed property list every year," Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn said.

Interest earned on the unclaimed property goes to the state. Nonfinancial assets
from safe deposit boxes are auctioned after one year.

Currently, businesses relinquish unclaimed property after three to five years,
but in an effort to find the owners more quickly and increase state revenue,
unclaimed wages will be turned over sooner. House Bill 7, which will take effect
Feb. 1, calls for businesses to relinquish unclaimed wages after one year.

Strayhorn estimates that the change will bring a one-time revenue increase of
$6.5 million in 2005.

The published list of unclaimed property owners has people who have property
worth more than $100. A list of people who have less than $100 or have property
from previous years is available on the comptroller's Web site.

ON THE WEB: www.window.state.tx.us/up

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               86 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 15, 2003, Saturday

China might avoid veto to preserve relations with U.S.

BYLINE: Linzhi Shi, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 449 words


WASHINGTON -- China is taking a moderate position in the heated debate over a
new draft U.N. resolution on Iraq, trying to avoid angering Washington and
possibly undermining the improved U.S.-China relationship.

Alongside two other veto-wielding U.N. Security Council permanent members,
Russia and France, China has reiterated its anti-war position in recent days.
But experts say Beijing would probably refrain from vetoing a U.S.-backed
resolution setting an ultimatum for Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to disarm or
face war.

China has used its U.N. veto only twice, both times on issues relating to
Taiwan, which separated from mainland China after Chiang Kai-shek lost the civil
war to the Communists in 1949.

In a telephone conversation this week, Chinese President Jiang Zemin urged
President Bush to resolve the Iraqi crisis peacefully and let U.N. weapons
inspections continue. He also said Iraq must disarm. So far, Jiang hasn't given
a clue publicly on how Beijing would vote on a new resolution.

Beijing has both economic and political concerns about an invasion of Iraq.
China relies on imports for one-third of its oil consumption. Iraqi oil accounts
for only 1 percent of its imports, but Beijing fears a war could cause an
upheaval across the oil-rich Persian Gulf region. Many also worry that China's
booming economy would suffer a heavy blow from a war-related disruption of oil
supplies.

Support for war could also tarnish China's "non-interventionist" foreign policy
and a global image of being "big and nice" that Beijing has sought to project,
said Bin Yu, professor of political science at Wittenberg University in
Springfield, Ohio.

Anti-war sentiment in China is strong. Many Chinese, especially the large Muslim
population in western China, are suspicious of Washington's motives in disarming
Iraq, saying America lusts for Iraq's oil.

However, some analysts say the damage a veto might cause to U.S.-China relations
could outweigh the benefits that Beijing might derive from it.

"The United States is a great economic benefit to China. We are now their single
largest customer," said James Sasser, the U.S. ambassador to China from 1996 to
1999. Last year, China reached a record trade surplus of more than $103 billion
with the United States.

"Some have said that the relations between the U.S. and China are the best
they've been since 1949 -- certainly the best they've been since Tiananmen in
1989," said Sasser.

China won't risk damaging its newly warm ties with Washington by wielding its
veto power, predicted Suisheng Zhao, executive director of the University of
Denver's China-U.S. cooperation center.

lshi@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               87 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

Tasting Menu

BYLINE: Dale Rice, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1368 words


AMERICAN BISTRO

Bitter End Bistro & Brewery

There's more than award-winning beer at this Warehouse District brew pub, with
its casual ambience, good food and commendable service. Standouts included
mussels in white-wine broth with curry creme fraiche, lemon grass, red bell
peppers and garlic, and pork loin topped with crisp onion rings with
cilantro-mint cream sauce. *** Moderate. 311 Colorado St. 478-2337.

Cafe Josie

While continuing to find innovation and inspiration in the kitchen, chef-owner
Charles Mayes has turned the restaurant's patio space into a bright dining room
with large windows. It's an inviting place to face the heat of Mayes' kitchen,
which turns out hot-and-spicy sauces galore. Try the bay shrimp potstickers with
cilantro wasabi, ginger tamarind and sun-splash sauces or the lobster cakes with
chipotle aioli and toasted pistachio mole. *** Expensive. 1200-B W. Sixth St.
322-9226.

Travis Restaurant

A worthy destination for more than just Lakeway residents. The young staff could
out-serve many comparable places in town. There was good food to boot, including
baked stuffed shrimp, duck and spinach salad and a dessert seldom seen at
restaurants -- angel food cake. *** Moderate/expensive. 101 Lakeway Drive,
261-7323.

CAFES

Bakehouse

One of the few independent, full-service, neighborhood restaurants in the city,
opens early for breakfast with good pancakes, French toast and omelets and stays
open late for dinner with an eclectic menu that takes a global approach. Good
dinner options include the escargot-stuffed mushroom appetizer and the chicken
fried steak. Forks up. Cheap. 5404 Manchaca Road, 443-5167.

Eastside Cafe

There's something for everyone. It's comfortable and relaxed and offers real
value for the money. And I like the emphasis on fresh herbs and vegetables,
often from the garden behind the old house. Sesame catfish with garlic mashed
potatoes, wild mushroom crepes, field green salad with raspberry vinaigrette and
warm goat cheese, chocolate silk pie and cherry cobbler are all favorites. ***
Moderate. 2113 Manor Road. 476-5858.

Magnolia Cafe

This 24-hour eatery has a pace and atmosphere that connects to the
counterculture of the '90s or dates to the '60s and '70s, depending on your
perspective. The mixed menu features salads and chicken, vegetarian and fajitas,
pasta and seafood, quesadillas and soups, something for practically everyone.
And if that isn't satisfying enough, try a chocolate fudge brownie. Ours weighed
at least a half pound. Forks up. Cheap. 1920 S. Congress Ave. 445-0000.

CHINESE

Chinatown

Owner Ronald Cheng's "chef's specialties" include Hunan duck rolls, rabbit in
orange sauce and "two little lambs" (one sweet, the other spicy). The atmosphere
is upscale, with red and black walls, red lacquered chairs and tables covered in
white linen. ** Cheap/Moderate. 3407 Greystone Drive. 343-9307.

Fire Bowl Cafe

This popular place for families features Asian noodle and stir-fried dishes,
including a create-your-own bowl of stir-fried vegetables, meats and sauce over
rice. Menu items included coconut shrimp, Tokyo soba (with grilled salmon and
broccoli florets), chicken lemon grass and Beijing ravioli (crisp pan-fried pork
dumplings). The portions were large, the prices were reasonable and the quality
was good. Forks up. Cheap. 5601 Brodie Lane. 899-8998.

T&S Chinese Seafood Restaurant

A favorite hangout of local chefs, T&S has the right hours (until 1 a.m. except
Tuesdays, when it closes at 10 p.m.) and even better food. The salt and pepper
shrimp featured unpeeled shellfish coated with a salt-and-pepper batter and
deep-fried. Even with the cartilage, they were delectable. The chicken with
black mushrooms, a clay pot item, and the shrimp roll appetizer were tasty.
Forks up. Cheap. 10014 N. Lamar Blvd. 339-8434.

Wanfu

A Chinese restaurant with ample parking and good food only five to 10 minutes
from downtown. Lunch entrees are generous, and the sliced duck in ginger sauce
-- heavily smoked duck with leeks, green onions, snow peas and ginger in a spicy
brown sauce -- was a winner. Forks up. Cheap. 2400 E. Oltorf St. 462-3535.

DELIS

Katz's Deli

A virtual institution in this city, the 24-hour deli continues to serve good
food. In addition to the thick sandwiches and a good burger, try some of the
dinner specials, such as the open roast beef sandwich or the half roast chicken
(both with two sides). Forks up. Cheap. 618 W. Sixth St., 476-3354.

Manny Hattan's

If you're hankering for a taste of New York, you'll find it here, deliciously.
The New York-style deli piles the meat high on sandwiches such as the Reuben,
makes homemade soup daily and imports the Carnegie Deli's cheesecake. Forks up.
Cheap/moderate. 9503 Research Blvd., Suite 650; 794-0088.

ITALIAN/MEDITERRANEAN

Cipollina

A neighborhood, Italian-style deli owned by Jeffrey's with a case full of
prepared items -- from pasta to meat to pricey side dishes -- that can be heated
on the spot for lunch. It also makes a thin-crust pizza more like that of Italy
than most places'. Forks up. Moderate. 1213 West Lynn St., 477-5211.

Macaroni Grill

Two of the "Romano family recipes" -- veal saltimbocca and pasta Milano -- were
tasty. The tender veal, stuffed with prosciutto and spinach, was served with a
side of spaghetti, while the pasta Milano combined grilled chicken, sun-dried
tomatoes, mushrooms and bowtie pasta in garlic cream sauce. Forks up.
Cheap/Moderate. 701 E. Stassney Lane, Building B. 693-9076.

Tree House Italian Grill

Good, basic fare in huge portions. The restaurant, behind a small park on South
Congress Avenue, dished out one of the largest pieces of lasagna I've seen. The
chicken parmigiana occupied a full plate, with sides of spaghetti and sauteed
vegetables. Forks up. Cheap/Moderate. 2201 College Ave. 443-4200.

PIZZA

Aljohn's

One of the few places serving a New York-style pizza, Aljohn's has abundant
sauce and cheese, with nicely distributed ingredients, but there is an
inconsistency in the crust. The larger pizza was undercooked in the center,
while the 12-inch pie was nicely crisp throughout. Forks up. Moderate. 1945 E.
Oltorf St., 851-8686.

Marye's Gourmet Pizza

The BST brings together great potential with spinach, bacon, Roma tomatoes, red
sauce, cheddar, smoked Provolone and low-fat mozzarella. But the underripe Romas
were baked under the cheese, allowing a lot of moisture to accumulate.
Fortunately, the crisp, bland crust was able to stand up to it. Forks up.
Moderate. 3663 Bee Cave Road, 327-5222.

Reale's

This 16-inch pie was thin-crusted in the center and dense around the outer
edges. The vegetarian version, the Roasted Pie, was plentifully topped with
roasted red peppers, onions and fresh garlic and more flavorful than the meat
option, the Ala Reale, which featured Canadian bacon, sausage, pepperoni,
mushrooms, bell peppers and black olives. Forks up. Moderate. 13450 U.S. 183 N.,
335-5115.

SEAFOOD

Bahama Breeze

Reasonable prices and huge portions. Half portions of the Shrimp St. Barts
(shrimp in a mild Creole sauce of tomatoes, chorizo and okra over white rice)
and the ropa vieja (a spicy shredded beef served over black beans and yellow
rice) were the size of full entrees at many restaurants. The bonus: They were
good, too. Forks up. Moderate. 9505 Stonelake Blvd. 345-9979.

Gumbo's

The upscale restaurant in the Brown Building has the food and feel of New
Orleans. Featuring Creole and Cajun influences, it hits the mark with chicken
and sausage gumbo, shrimp etouffee, crawfish tails in Alfredo sauce, blackened
fish piled with shrimp and pork tenderloin heaped with crabmeat and two sauces:
spicy red wine-pepper and rich garlic-bacon cream. *** Moderate. 710 Colorado
St. 480-8053.

Mariscos Seafood Restaurant

In Mexico, the union of seafood and spice takes a mild main ingredient and turns
on the heat with cilantro and serranos. A great example of that style can be
found at Mariscos, which features a wide variety of seafood, including shrimp,
octopus, oysters and a whole fried catfish (served with french fries and
coleslaw). Forks Up. Cheap. 1504 Town Creek Drive.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               88 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 24, 2003, Tuesday

SECTION: News; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1091 words


Capturing Austin's natural beauty

Thanks to photographer Larry Kolvoord, my day started a bit brighter than usual
(June 20 Central Texas Digest photo, "Cooling its heels"). He again has used his
camera to capture the gentle beauty of Austin, the Austin that I miss many times
in my daily "hurry up and get the day going" routine.

Kolvoord's photo of one of our local treasures, the eastern screech owl, was a
refreshing reminder of what wonderful special neighbors we in Austin have.

Three hoots to Kolvoord.

GREGG PHILIPSON

Austin

One big family

"Religious war" is an oxymoron. If a religion teaches peace and fellowship
toward one's neighbor, then how can one declare war in the name of religion?
People worldwide use religion as an excuse to sin, even though their religions
teach against it. The big three religions -- Christianity, Judaism and Islam --
are what I'm talking about. Each of these religions claim the same god and call
themselves children of that god.

If we are all children of the same god, then we are brothers and sisters, and I
believe that each of these religions would not permit the killing of a sibling,
no matter what the circumstances are.

DANIEL CORKRAN

Austin

bear12135@austin.rr.com

Memories of SWT

After years of controversy, Gov. Rick Perry has signed it into law the name
change of Southwest Texas State University. As of Sept. 1, it will become Texas
State University-San Marcos.

I graduated from SWT a little more than a year ago. The years I spent at the
school were the most pleasant of my life. Wandering through the quad as the wind
blew through the trees, lounging by the San Marcos River on a warm summer day,
or meeting up with friends at the Tap Room for a beer after class -- those are
the kind of memories I will always associate with the name Southwest Texas.

The reasons given for the name change may be logical, yet I cannot help but feel
that I am losing an old friend. Future students will call their school Texas
State University, but it will always be SWT to me.

JEFFREY E. BROOKS

Austin

Make my day

The joy I get out of reading the American-Statesman comes from knowing how
constantly miserable its editorial writers and editorial cartoonist Ben Sargent
must be each and every day. No matter how viciously and unfairly Republican
government officials are editorially attacked -- and supposedly straight-news
stories are slanted -- the voters, by choice, increase the number of Republican
leaders at every election.

The American-Statesman should keep it up -- it's building my party and making my
day. And Gov. Rick Perry's day, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst's day, House Speaker Tom
Craddick's day, and, the icing on the cake, U.S. House Majority Leader Tom
DeLay's day.

RAY BARNHART

Austin

barnhart@mindspring.com

State leaders as puppets

It is refreshing to see that the leaders of the Republican Party who want to
ensure that no child is left behind have chosen redistricting as the first
priority for a special session of the Texas Legislature. U.S. House Majority
Leader Tom DeLay and White House adviser Karl Rove have handled our state
leaders as the puppets they are, and I suppose, as we deserve, because we
elected them.

If only the Democrats could figure out where they stand on issues. Where is Jim
Hightower when you need him?

JIM DOGGETT

Austin

jdoggett@austin.rr.com

Redistricting not needed

Maybe instead of redistricting regions of Texas to gain seats in the U.S. House,
the Republicans should use the good old-fashioned practices of winning votes:
campaigning, rallying and electioneering.

It is sad when government is less about the will of the people and more about
the creative designing that graphics artists can apply to geo-political maps.
And next, they will turn around and moan about low voter turnout rates.

And when pressed about why the Republicans are gerrymandering, many in the GOP
will reply, "Democrats did it to us for years." Since when did two wrongs make a
right?

Republicans should try taking the high road. They now dictate every branch of
government -- how much more stonewalling power do they need?

MICHAEL SAWYER

Austin

GOP priorities

After reading the June 19 article on congressional redistricting, it appears to
me it is our politicians -- Gov. Rick Perry, U.S. House Majority Leader Tom
DeLay and White House adviser Karl Rove -- rather than "we the people" who find
redistricting so important that a special session of the Legislature must be
called, to the tune of $1.7 million.

We can't even find enough money in the state coffers to feed and insure all our
children, yet our governor is willing to throw away almost $2 million on a
special session for his own agenda. Does anyone else find this unconscionable?
At least we know what our government's priorities are. I hope Democrats are
taking notes.

MARY JO DEES

Dripping Springs

Politics and pollution

Air pollution is just one of many problems becoming progressively worse under
the Bush administration. Most recently, White House officials have deleted
cardinal points on a draft report prepared by the Environmental Protection
Agency that concludes pollution is a major contributor to global warming (June
19 article, "EPA report's warming data get edited out").

This kind of arm-twisting to filter science to suit policy creates grave doubts
on the efficacy and the earnestness of the White House in protecting the
environment. This reader need not address many other similar maneuvers by
President Bush that places his initial promise to the environment in a
depressing light of lies.

QIMIN SHENG

Austin

Turgenev1@yahoo.com

Turn off the engines

It appears that environmental concerns are not, as Rush Limbaugh might say, just
for "eco-Nazis" anymore (June 20 article, "The price of pollution"). We'll all
be getting sick of fouling our nest and our bodies.

It's curious that only when pollution hits our wallets do we get upset. One
solution is free: Stop idling vehicles more than a few minutes. Diesel trucks,
buses and pickups idle constantly throughout the city. If these vehicles would
not idle more than a few minutes, tons of emissions per day would be eliminated
from the air, from our lungs and from our bloodstreams.

Many states have anti-idling laws. Eventually, Texas will, too, when enough
people get sick of breathing foul air and start speaking up. Turn off your
engines, and don't hesitate to ask others to do the same.

MICHAEL G. ALBRECHT

Austin

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An eastern screech owl to a dip in a West Austin birdbath Thursday. The
owl is common around Austin and makes its home in suburban areas.

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman


                               89 of 90 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 16, 2003, Saturday

New York City is showing signs of long, hot night

BYLINE: Bob Dart, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 532 words


NEW YORK -- The famed sidewalks of New York seemed to sag Friday with the
fatigue of the powerless.

"I'm so tired that I can't stand any more," said Steve Del Gado, who sat on a
stoop after staying up all night helping get tenants from the 58 floors of One
Penn Plaza. "We didn't sleep none. I helped one pregnant lady from the 34th
floor who had been trapped for four or five hours."

In the parts of the city still without electricity, the day dragged as crowds
gathered beside restaurants and stores closed by the blackout. Hot dog and
pretzel vendors -- low-tech restaurateurs -- were besieged by hungry customers.

There were more lines at the street-side pay phones -- usually outdated orphans
in this cell phone era. But cell phones -- like ATMs, credit cards, air
conditioning, televisions and subways -- were casualties in this global hub of
communications, commerce and transportation.

Buses became the workhorses of the transit system. People who had been stuck in
town overnight studied routes to the suburbs.

Nancy Evangelista, an elderly woman unaccustomed to a city without subways,
struggled along a sweltering sidewalk after a bus left her blocks from her
destination.

"I had to come in for a doctor's appointment. Of course, I don't know if he is
there," she said. "Believe me, it's a lousy day to be here."

Her immediate concern, though, was to find a restroom. Security officers guarded
hotel doors, and most other establishments were closed.

Many people did have an unexpected day off from work. However, it was too hot to
stay inside, and recreational or cultural activities were limited in many
neighborhoods.

If zombies sweat, Fifth Avenue was full of them. Sleep had been scarce the
previous night.

"We went up on the rooftop and just sat there and talked. That was about it. You
couldn't sleep," said Angel Cebreto.

But, like many New Yorkers, he quickly volunteered that this power outage was a
nuisance and not anything like the tragedy of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on
the World Trade Center .

Once again, though, the city pulled together.

"Everyone was trying to help everyone else," said Krissy Warren, who walked
through Greenwich Village after the blackout. "Stores were handing out ice cream
and water for free. I didn't see anyone being mean."

With refrigerators out of power, many people had impromptu cookouts, throwing
thawed steaks on the grill and drinking beer before it could get warm.

"They were partying like crazy," Donald Bellamy, a construction worker from
Brooklyn, told The Associated Press.

Energy was in short supply for people as well as appliances.

Hundreds of people dozed on the post office steps across from Penn Station. The
August sun was cooler than the crowded, sweltering waiting areas inside the
train depot. The Red Cross dispensed cups of water, lemonade and iced tea
nearby.

But tour buses were arriving at the hotels whose power had been restored. The
Statue of Liberty, which had closed Friday, was scheduled to reopen. Stage
curtains were set to rise again Friday night on Broadway.

Plenty of folks were ready to take a bite from even a baked Big Apple.

bobdart@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 The Austin American Statesman
