
                               2 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 10, 2002, Monday

What we can do to cut energy use

BYLINE: American-Statesman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 547 words


Last week, the Bush administration sent the United Nations a report that for the
first time clearly acknowledged the existence of global warming and the role
humans play in causing this phenomenon by burning fossil fuels.

But as much of the harm had already been done, the president said, there was
nothing to do except adapt to the changes to come. As the onslaught of criticism
began -- from conservatives and liberals alike -- Bush distanced himself from
the report's findings. White House Spokesman Ari Fleischer fell back on earlier
Bush campaign rhetoric, citing the uncertainty of "the science of climate
change."

The scientific and political debate, then, continues. Consumers, however,
needn't -- and shouldn't -- wait until the debate is resolved to take action to
curb the fouling of the air. There is no question that the air is being
polluted, and the source of the pollution is literally driven by human beings.

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Pat Wood points out that consumers
play a vital role in pushing energy companies to take serious looks at
alternatives to fossil fuels. Though alternative energy sources such as wind and
solar power represent about 1 percent of total energy used in the United States,
this number can increase if more people and businesses demand a diversified pool
of energy sources from energy suppliers.

"A good diversity of supplies is good for national security," said Wood, who
left the chairmanship of the Texas Public Utility Commission when Bush appointed
him to the federal energy agency.  Instead of solely relying on fossil fuels, we
should tap more into wind, solar and hydropower, he said.

Meanwhile, we can all pitch in to help lessen dependence on fossil fuels. Among
things individuals can do:

* Use mass transit or carpool. The fewer vehicles on the road, the less exhaust
in the air. It's that simple.

* Use alternative energy sources. In Texas, wind power usage has gone up over
the past few years. Austin Energy provides one of the nation's best renewable
energy programs -- called Green Choice -- which relies primarily on wind power.
Though you initially pay more per kilowatt-hour for wind power, this rate is
fixed for the next decade and not subject to the price fluctuations of the
market, unlike natural gas.

* Look for the Environmental Protection Agency's Energy Star sticker on new
appliances. Though the appliance itself may be more expensive, you ultimately
will find that you not only save energy but also money.

* Replace your gas-powered lawn mower with an electric one.

* Keep the thermostat set at 78 degrees in the summer.

* Install solar screens to keep warm air in the house during the winter.

* Use compact fluorescent light bulbs instead of the incandescent ones. This
will save energy and reduce the number of trips to the store for more bulbs.

* Take Willie Nelson's advice and turn out the lights. Too often we leave lights
on -- even during the day.

(from box)

For more information

www.awea.org (Web site of the American Wind Energy Association)

www.greenmountain.com (Web site of the Green Mountain Energy Co.)

www.austinenergy.com (Web site of Austin Energy)

www.lead.org/leadnet/footprint (calculate your ecological footprint)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               3 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 14, 2002, Thursday

Defend schoolchildren from board's 'revisions'

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 675 words


Where are academics in the debate over textbooks for public schools?

A "citizens" group is bullying textbook publishers into exorcising facts from
history, government and social studies books slated for Texas students while
most scholars and institutions of higher learning warm the bench.

If this were a football game it would be fourth and goal. The star players
should get off the bench, or we'll lose more than a game -- our children will
lose out on a well-rounded education.

Today and Friday, State Board of Education members are scheduled to approve
social studies textbooks for Texas' 4.1 million public schoolchildren. Some of
these books are being cleansed of information Texas students need to compete for
admission to the nation's best colleges and universities. The omission or
blurring of those facts puts our kids at a disadvantage in taking college
entrance exams or law or medical school admissions tests.

Should the elected education board allow this to happen, it will be dumbing down
public education.

Let's review two facts that Texas Citizens for a Sound Economy has identified as
erroneous, and therefore, subject to revision:

* Global warming. Texas Citizens for a Sound Economy pushed for textbooks to
describe global warming as a theory. This comes a year after a panel of top
American scientists appointed by President Bush to study the issue declared that
global warming is real and getting worse. The panel's report was written by 11
atmospheric scientists who are members of the National Academy of Sciences,
including a meteorologist who for years had expressed skepticism about some of
the dire predictions regarding the significance of human-caused warming.

* Acid rain. Another theory, according to Texas Citizens for a Sound Economy.
However, that "theory" has done real damage in Franklin, N.Y., according to the
Environmental Protection Agency, which describes the city's Little Echo Pond as
one of the most acidic lakes in the United States due to the effects of acid
rain.

In the face of the existing evidence about these and other issues, it seems odd
-- to put it mildly -- to call global warming or acid rain "theories."

If facts are desired, here are a few. A majority of the State Board of
Education, with the help of their friends at Texas Citizens for a Sound Economy,
has circumvented a state law.

After more than a decade of ideological wars over books, the Legislature
stripped the education board of its power to edit content -- a power board
members had abused by using it to advance a political and religious agenda. But
the education board's social conservative members cleverly found a way to edit
textbooks and seize authority the Legislature wisely gave to local school
districts.

The 1995 law only allows the board to correct information in books that is
erroneous. To get around that, the board and groups such as the conservative
citizens group need only claim that facts are errors to force revisions. And as
long as they can muster a majority on the board, they can turn facts into errors
or "theories." They are doing it with impunity.

Just last week, Texas Education Commissioner Felipe Alanis and Higher Education
Commissioner Don Brown visited with this editorial board to promote in part a
tougher curriculum to move 300,000 more kids into college over the next decade
or so. Yet they have been silent in standing up for the kind of textbooks needed
to accomplish that task. We commend professors such as the University of Texas'
Andrew Riggsby, who correctly characterized this process as vandalism rather
than review.

The University of Texas, with its army of noted scientists, researchers and
legal scholars and its College of Education, should have intervened. But it has
curiously remained on the sidelines as the battle over our schoolchildren's
minds plays out blocks from the campus.

We only hope it shows up today and Friday to stop what otherwise will be a
certain victory for the board -- but a big loss for our schoolchildren.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               4 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 1, 2002, Sunday

With GOP in control, tax code targeted
While some push for sweeping changes, Bush takes more cautious approach

BYLINE: Marilyn Geewax, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: Business; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1177 words


WASHINGTON -- Taxpayers will find only minor changes to the tax code in 2003 as
last year's huge tax-cut package continues to phase in.

But many conservatives, emboldened by election gains that left Republicans in
control of the White House and Congress, want to give the taxpayers some really
sweeping changes to look forward to.

Some seek a new round of hefty tax cuts for individuals and businesses. Others
want to go further, scrapping the decades-old income tax system in favor of a
simpler and, they say, fairer model.

The question is whether these big ideas can thrive in an uncertain political and
economic climate.

So far, President Bush and GOP leaders in Congress have signaled that their
immediate tax-cutting goals may be modest.

For example, Sen. Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican who will chair the
Senate Finance Committee next year, announced his tax-policy goals the day after
the election and listed nothing beyond making permanent the $1.35 trillion,
10-year tax package Bush signed into law last year.

Bush's own advisers want to stimulate the economy, but reportedly aren't pushing
for drastic action. They're pressing to speed up the start date of many tax
breaks in the new law so they'll take effect next year rather than later.

The cautious approach does not surprise lobbyists who have seen the evenly
divided Congress become gridlocked in recent years.

"Clearly, Republicans now control the House and Senate and will control the
agenda, but still, it's by very thin margins," said Dorothy Coleman, vice
president for tax policy for the National Association of Manufacturers, a trade
association.

Noting that Senate Democrats will still hold enough seats to filibuster any
bills they strongly oppose, Coleman said that "when you are working with such a
narrow margin, it's difficult" to make big changes quickly.

Coleman said many manufacturers would be satisfied for now with just getting the
2001 tax package made permanent and speeding up the phase-in of tax breaks.
"When you look at the tax code and the size of the U.S. economy, you can see
that's not something that can be reformed quickly," she said.

Bush faces another restraint on his ability to pursue major tax changes. His own
agenda calls for big spending increases for the military, homeland security and
prescription drug benefits for elderly people. Those expensive priorities will
further strain the federal budget, which after four straight years of annual
surpluses chalked up a $159 billion deficit in fiscal 2002.

Even if new tax cuts do spur economic growth, as advocates argue they would, the
positive effects might not be felt in time to shrink the deficit before the 2004
election cycle.

Republicans may have gotten a bit of help with the deficit problem last week
when Lindy Paull, director of Congress' Joint Committee on Taxation, said she
would resign.

Both Paull and Dan Crippen, the outgoing director of the Congressional Budget
Office, have been skeptics of a technique for estimating future deficits known
as dynamic scoring. That method takes into account the future economic growth
produced by tax cuts.

The committee and the budget office provide Congress with the official estimates
of how proposed tax changes will affect the government's finances. So if Paull
and Crippen are replaced by supporters of dynamic scoring, the cost of tax cuts
and projected deficits may appear to shrink, giving Congress political cover for
more tax cuts.

If Bush does decide to push for additional tax cuts, business leaders, lawmakers
and lobbyists are urging him to consider:

* Eliminating taxes on stock dividends.

* Making permanent last year's repeal of the estate tax, now scheduled to expire
in 2011.

* Accelerating depreciation for business investments.

* Eliminating the alternative minimum tax.

* Cutting capital gains taxes.

* Temporarily suspending the Social Security payroll tax.

* Offering tax credits for the purchase of health insurance.

Even longtime agitators for radical tax change are willing to win just a few
additional cuts this year, while waiting for much bigger reforms after the 2004
election, said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a group that
promotes lower taxes.

"I've always made the case that the tax code is a millstone around the economy's
neck," Moore said. "But Bush needs to spend the next two years laying the
groundwork for major change."

Some reformers, pointing out that the tax code has become so complex that a
majority of filers now hire professional preparers, say the answer is replacing
the progressive income tax with a national sales tax, a flat income tax or even
a European-stye tax on the value added to products at each stage of their
production.

A leading advocate of simplifying the tax code is Treasury Secretary Paul
O'Neill, who calls the current system an "abomination."

"Complexity is costly to taxpayers, to our economy and to public confidence in
the fairness of the system," O'Neill said last April 15. "We've got to fix the
tax code so that it's simple, clear and fair."

But one man's loophole is another man's cherished deduction, making
simplification very difficult to pull off in Washington. Currently, tens of
millions of taxpayers use the tax breaks to offset the costs of charitable
donations, home mortgages, health care, child care, tuition, state and local
taxes and more.

Many tax preparers say Americans might be willing to give up deductions and
credits in exchange for fewer hassles. But lobbyists would fight ferociously to
protect their industries' tax advantages.

"Most people would like simplification, if it were truly simple and fair," said
Lars Blythe, an accountant with Blythe & Associates CPA, in Paducah, Ky. "But
I'm skeptical. There are too many special-interest groups for there to be major
simplification."

Martin Regalia, chief economist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said business
leaders would love to see Congress devise a tax code that is both simple and
economically stimulative, but added, "I may die before I see a system like
that."

marilyng@coxnews.com

(From box)

Tax changes for 2003 Main provisions of the major tax-cut law approved last year
that will change for individuals in 2003:

* Child and dependent-care credits: Maximum eligible expenses for the child-care
credit increase to $3,000 for one child and $6,000 for multiple children, up
from $2,400 and $4,800 this year.

* Lifetime learning credit: The amount of qualified tuition and related expenses
a taxpayer can take into account in figuring a lifetime learning credit
increases to $10,000 from $5,000.

* Adoption credit: The maximum credit will rise to $10,160 from $10,000.

* Mileage rates: Taxpayers will lose ground here. The deduction for the cost of
operating a vehicle for business use decreases half a cent, to 36 cents. The
rate for use of a vehicle for medical reasons or moving expenses falls a full
penny, to 12 cents.

Source: IRS

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               5 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 1, 2002, Tuesday

Was 2001 warmer or cooler than average? Well, it depends; Austin-Bergstrom was
cooler than normal
Camp Mabry,warmer

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1729 words


Globally, it was the second-warmest year on record. Temperatures in the United
States followed suit, averaging 1.2 degrees warmer than normal, according to the
National Climatic Data Center.

Ah, but deep in the heart of Texas -- of all places -- Austin's first year of
the new millennium was cooler than usual.

Or was it? Well, it depends on where you made your measurements.

Most average monthly temperatures, indeed, were cooler than normal for the year
at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport. But most of them recorded at Camp
Mabry in West Austin echoed the global experience: warmer than usual. Both sites
are official National Weather Service recording stations for Austin, but area
meteorologists are siding with Camp Mabry on this one.

"I would tend to believe Mabry as more representative of the heart of Austin,"
said KVUE television meteorologist Mark Murray. "The placement of the (airport)
thermometer is cooler than at Mabry."

The electronic temperature sensors at Camp Mabry and Austin-Bergstrom are in
grassy areas. The West Austin one is near Camp Mabry's north gate near West 45th
Street; the airport's is on its south side, in bottomland near Onion Creek.

Camp Mabry's sensor is next to MoPac Boulevard (Loop 1) and is surrounded by
other roads, which causes an "urban heat island" effect most pronounced in the
summer. The airport's sensor isn't far from the concrete runways, but it's on
ground low enough to get what meteorologists call "cold air drainage" at night.

Nevertheless, the sites were close on March. At 9.2 degrees below normal, it was
the coldest March in Austin-Bergstrom's 58-year-old record. At 6.6 degrees below
normal, it was the ninth-coldest March in Camp Mabry's 104-year temperature
database.

Though almost every other month of the year was cooler (Austin-Bergstrom) or
warmer (Camp Mabry) than normal, the temperature difference between the sites
was most dramatic in their total of 100-degree days.

Sixteen such days were recorded at the airport, beginning July 20. There were 40
of them at Camp Mabry, beginning July 10, almost as many as the record-breaking
42 such days there in hot, dry 2000.

Some of the difference in 100-degree days might be attributed to a faulty
National Weather Service sensor at the airport that was found in late August to
be reading about 4 degrees low. Bill Runyon, a Weather Service meteorologist,
said agency technicians found the discrepancy on Aug. 30, and the sensor was
replaced on Sept. 4.

"It was failing the self-checks," Runyon said. "We sent a tech out, and he
noticed some errors."

Just how long the sensor had been malfunctioning, however, is uncertain. Some
meteorologists think it was as long as three weeks. The days of 100 degrees or
higher, recorded at Austin-Bergstrom, ended Aug. 18. At Camp Mabry, they
continued until Aug. 26.

"I'd say Mabry is probably a little more representative for that time," said
KEYE meteorologist Troy Kimmel, who lectures on weather and climate at the
University of Texas.

Bob Rose, meteorologist at the Lower Colorado River Authority, agreed.

"Bergstrom is like an island unto itself," Rose said. "It's not very
representative of the rest of the city or the county."

On 2001's rainfall, though, the sites were in agreement: Despite four weeks of
no rain in July and a dry October, Austin recorded at least seven inches more
rain than usual for the year. Camp Mabry ended up with 42.90 inches, the airport
with 39.53 inches.

Almost a quarter of that rain fell in November, causing the year's deadliest
weather in Central Texas: flash floods that claimed 12 lives.

It was the airport's second-wettest November, at 10.51 inches, since the Army
Air Forces began keeping records in 1942. It was Camp Mabry's ninth-wettest
November, at 10 inches, since the Army Signal Corps began recording rainfall in
the central city in 1856.

Rose said all that rain, plus the cold we've had since then, could mean a good
crop of bluebonnets and other wildflowers this spring.

You may contact Dick Stanley at dstanley@statesman.com or (512) 445-3629.

(from box)

A month-by-month look at Austin's weather in 2001

It was a wet year, but how warm or cool depended on where you were.

JANUARY

A wet an cool (at the airport) year began with 2001's lowest temperature: 22
degrees, and a bit more rain than usual.

Daily temperature*

Average: 46.4

3.7 degrees below normal

Monthly precipitation*

2001: 2.75"

Average: 1.92"

FEBRUARY

A dry, warm month with an unexpected high of 78 degrees at both the airport and
Camp Mabry.

54.5

0.4 degrees above normal

1.00"

2.15"

MARCH

Rain picked up in coldest March in airport's 58-year-old record; 9th coldest in
Camp Mabry's 104-year-old temperature database.

52.9

9.2 degrees below normal

2.12"

2.05"

APRIL

Weather wrenched back to dry, despite several severe thunderstorms. A high of 86
forecast the hot and dry summer to come.

69.5

0.1 degrees below normal

0.39"

2.66"

MAY

Highs in the 90s, but overall cool trend continued. Rainfall short of usual
wettest month. Storms blew a 72 mph wind to Pflugerville.

75.3

0.2 degrees below normal

4.41"

4.86"

JUNE

Tropical Storm Allison came near Central Texas then blew back to Houston, and
the last rains fell before a dry July.

80.7

0.4 degrees below normal

3.21"

3.50"

JULY

Four weeks of dry. 100-degree days beginning on the 10th would total 16 at the
airport, 40 at Camp Mabry.

84.6

0.3 degrees above normal

0.33"

1.93"

AUGUST

Dry and100-degree days ended with more than twice usual rainfall. Year's high of
103 at airport; 105 at Camp Mabry.

83.1

0.3 degrees below normal

5.05"

2.42"

SEPTEMBER

Big rains continued, but the average airport temperature dropped almost 4
degrees below normal.

75.4

3.9 degrees below normal

3.46"

2.46"

OCTOBER

Average airport temperature almost 5 degrees below norm. Dry before November's
deluge. F-3 tornado hit Stonewall, injuring 1.

65.5

4.9 degrees below normal

2.39"

3.45"

NOVEMBER

Second wettest November at airport; 9th at Camp Mabry. Flash floods, joined by 9
tornadoes, took 12 lives in Central Texas.

60.9

0.1 degrees below normal

10.51"

2.89"

DECEMBER

Rains continued. Series of cold fronts brought Christmas chill; sleet and snow
forecast for New Year's Day.

52.2**

0.8 degrees below normal

3.91"

1.98"

*Figures are for Austin-Bergstrom International Airport; averages based on 30
years of data from 1961 to 1990.

** Dec. 31 figures are based on temperatures as of 5 p.m.

Sources: National Weather Service and Lower Colorado River Authority

High temperatures: Aug. 5, 103 degrees; hottest temperature of the year

Low temperatures: Jan. 20, 22 degrees; coldest temperature of the year

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               8 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 7, 2002, Saturday

UT scientist's satellite project will take stock of Earth's ice

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 659 words


Bob Schutz likes to use a pencil-sized laser device to aim a red dot at points
of interest when he gives slide shows. Soon, the professor of aerospace
engineering at the University of Texas will use an industrial-strength version
aimed from space to determine whether the polar ice caps are growing or
shrinking.

Schutz is the science team leader for an unmanned satellite, to be launched
later this month, that will orbit the Earth for at least three years to measure
ice cap elevations, ocean levels, the height of vegetation and other ecological
conditions that can be affected by global warming. The $232 million project is
part of a growing effort by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to
deepen understanding of the planet by studying it from the vantage point of
space.

There is wide agreement among scientists that human-caused pollution is
contributing to global warming, but many details of the process and its
ramifications are not tho- roughly understood. For example, rising temperatures
will cause more melting near the edges of the Antarctic and Greenland ice
sheets. But a warmer atmosphere also holds more moisture, which will cause
increased precipitation over the sheets and thereby more ice buildup.

"What we don't know is whether the ice sheets overall are shrinking or rising,"
Schutz said.

The satellite project comes at a time of intense interest -- both scientific and
political -- in climate change. The Bush administration's approach, emphasizing
research rather than regulation, received sharp criticism at a conference in
Washington, D.C., this week.

The stakes are high. If, for example, the ice sheets are shrinking, the
resulting increase in sea levels could flood low-lying coastal communities,
causing widespread destruction of property and dislocation of people.

With the satellite's launch scheduled for Dec. 19 at Vandenberg Air Force Base
in California, Schutz's focus these days is on the technical rather than the
political. The project culminates 14 years of research by Schutz, the associate
director of UT's Center for Space Research.

Besides researchers and students at UT, his team includes scientists and
engineers from several other universities, NASA and private industry. The team
developed the orbit plan and the technical specifications for the laser system
aboard the "Ice, Cloud, and land Elevation Satellite" -- ICESat in aerospace
jargon.

The laser system is simple in concept but complex in execution.

It will measure the time it takes for a short pulse of laser light to travel to
the ice or other object and reflect back to the satellite. That information, in
turn, will be used to calculate the elevation of the object. Subsequent
measurements will reveal changes in elevation.

Here's where it gets tricky: The measurements must be performed 40 times a
second from a platform hurtling through space at 16,000 miles an hour. In
addition, the precise location of the satellite in space and the laser beam on
the surface must be determined simultaneously, to ensure that measurements are
accurate to within 4 inches.

Schutz is confident that those challenges have been licked. An innovative camera
system aboard the satellite will determine the direction of the laser beam with
respect to the stars. Global positioning satellites and ground-based laser will
determine the spacecraft's position.

Schutz's team is bracing for a wealth of data, much of which will be analyzed at
UT. Schutz will be at Vandenberg for the launch. The satellite was being placed
on top of a Boeing Delta II rocket this week.

"It's a big moment for him," said Charles Webb, a UT doctoral candidate in
aerospace engineering who has been working on the project for seven years.

"He's normally an extraordinarily calm person. He seems extremely excited by
this, and you can sense that in his sense of urgency when he talks to us."

rhaurwitz@statesman.com; 445-3604

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The ICESat, set for launch soon, will carry a laser designed to
measure, among other things, the growth or shrinkage of the world's ice caps.
Such data could help explain global warming's effects.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               9 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 10, 2002, Sunday

Girding for an invasion of Iraq
As U.N. prepares for inspections, U.S. readies troops for the 'or else'

BYLINE: George Edmonson, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: Insight; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 3403 words


WASHINGTON -- The possibility of a U.S.-led invasion of Iraq appears to loom
larger now that the United Nations Security Council has passed a resolution
demanding that Saddam Hussein accept weapons inspections or face "severest
consequences," as President Bush said.

And now the possibility even has a timetable attached: between now and early
next year.

Of course, experts note, any number of events affecting whether the United
States goes to war -- from Iraqi compliance with the U.N. mandate to new
intelligence information to decisions by other nations about allowing the use of
military bases -- could transpire before Feb. 21, when the new resolution
requires weapons inspectors to report their findings to the Security Council.

And then there is Saddam himself.

"He's really unpredictable . . . he always surprises people," said Ibrahim al
Marashi, an analyst at Monterey Institute of International Studies in California
who specializes in his native Iraq.

Bush has been careful to say that he does not want war. Commenting Friday on the
U.N. resolution he did not specifically threaten Iraq with military force. But
Bush's message to Saddam -- indeed, to the rest of the world -- over the past
several months has been clear: Saddam must disarm or face war. And if the
international community will not force Saddam to comply with U.N. resolutions
set after Iraq lost the 1991 Persian Gulf War, then the United States will lead
a coalition to bring compliance about.

"I think that George Bush and Tony Blair -- their patience is exhausted," said
Charles Heyman, editor of Jane's World Armies in London. Blair, Britain's prime
minister, is America's strongest ally against Iraq.

All the while, the U.S. military continues building up forces in the Persian
Gulf and discussing the situation with its allies in the region. Thousands of
American combat troops recently completed desert exercises in Kuwait, where the
U.S. military has pre-positioned dozens of tanks and other armored vehicles. An
air base in Qatar was recently upgraded to accommodate American warplanes, and
hundreds of top officials from U.S. Central Command arrive in Qatar next month
to establish what probably will be a war's forward command center.

The Pentagon says little publicly about these and other arrangements in Bahrain,
Oman and elsewhere, often characterizing them as exercises or long-planned
events. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, one of the administration's most
outspoken officials on the dangers represented by Saddam, frequently deflects
inquiries about war preparations.

But he told Congress earlier this year that "the Iraq problem cannot be solved
by airstrikes alone." Rumsfeld said that the United States did not know the
location of a "large portion" of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction facilities
and that among those that were known, all were not "vulnerable to attack from
the air." Some are deeply buried, Rumsfeld said. "Others are purposely located
near population centers -- schools, hospitals, mosques, where an airstrike could
kill a large number of innocent people."

Rumsfeld, without specifically mentioning Iraq, also has talked about additional
call-ups of National Guard and Reserve troops.

A number of leaks to the news media have reported details and discussions about
possible invasion plans. Among the key elements cited in various published
accounts, often attributed to unnamed sources:

* Timing: The Iraqi military is not the only foe administration planners must
reckon with in preparing for war with Iraq. Because of the hellish desert
weather of the region, there is a relatively narrow window for military action.

January and February are seen as the best months -- the United States and its
coalition partners launched the 1991 Gulf War in mid-January. The shorter days
play to the U.S. strength in night-fighting. The milder weather also makes it
more comfortable for troops to wear the heavy protective suits necessitated by
the threat of chemical or biological weapons.

There is one drawback to the winter months: They are often wet and cloudy. Cloud
cover can make it difficult for pilots to identify their targets and complete
their bombing runs, though Pentagon officials contend that new, high-tech
targeting devices have significantly reduced the adverse effects of bad weather.

Iraq's deserts begin to get broiling hot in March. Supplying troops with water,
always a major issue in desert climates, becomes even more urgent. Spring and
summer also are given to fierce sandstorms that can wreak havoc with sensitive
navigational equipment and hydraulics, grounding helicopters and stopping tanks
in their tracks.

* Opening: Massive airstrikes against military targets, particularly
communications centers and underground bunkers, are often seen as constituting
the first salvo in any modern war fought by the United States. The Washington
Post reported in September that planners envisioned the air effort lasting
anywhere from "just a day or two" to two weeks before troops begin the ground
campaign.

* Ground troops: Some recent reports say the number of troops needed for an
invasion of Iraq is around 100,000. Various leaks have detailed different
figures -- anywhere from 50,000 for a scenario that has American forces
attacking Baghdad first to 250,000 for a plan reminiscent of the Gulf War --
perhaps reflecting some disagreement among planners about how many troops would
be necessary. One thing all the leaked scenarios have in common is that they
call for a troop number far below the more than 500,000 used in 1991.

* Lab work. An invasion of Iraq would be a laboratory for the Pentagon to try
out some its new high-tech weapons, such as those that destroy an enemy's
electronics systems. The military also undoubtedly would take advantage of the
opportunity to refine other new technologies such as armed aerial drones and the
use of real-time video.

Loren Thompson, a defense analyst at the Lexington Institute near Washington,
said it's impossible to know too far in advance how a military strike might
unfold. A key factor, he said, would be intelligence on Saddam's whereabouts.

"If we know exactly where he is and can track him, we can do this with a small
fraction of the troops we would otherwise need," Thompson said.

Heyman said he believes events are likely to proceed in three phases.

The first would be admission of U.N. weapons inspectors, during which he
anticipates a massive buildup of U.S. and allied forces in the region. If Saddam
doesn't capitulate to U.N. demands, Heyman sees the second phase as "Rumsfeld's
out-of-the-box operation." This operation would include encouraging and
assisting Kurds in northern Iraq to revolt and move south to clamp down on
Iraq's abilities to launch Scud missiles toward Israel. It also would involve a
"huge air campaign" to destroy key military facilities. Precision-guided bombs,
a hallmark of the war in Afghanistan, likely would be used to an even greater
degree during this phase.

But if the out-of-the-box operation -- which Heyman estimates would last six
weeks to give the United States enough time to amass troops for an invasion --
doesn't eliminate Saddam, "then they'll go to the big war." A large ground force
would move across Iraq toward Baghdad "to literally dig Saddam Hussein out."

There is one potential problem with this scenario, according to San Francisco
State University history professor Jerald Combs. If U.S. and British officials
insist on a buildup of forces in the region while weapons inspectors are in
Iraq, they risk being seen as impatient with the inspection process and could
find themselves arguing with other nations -- Russia, France and China, in
particular -- on whether inspections are proceeding adequately.

"It just doesn't look to me we can get this done with any kind of international
support at all by the winter," Combs said.

And as stated, weather is a major consideration because of the desert heat and
its effect on troops wearing protective suits against chemical or biological
weapons.

"I've talked to any number of soldiers, Army and Marines, as well as even Air
Force officers, who've worn this equipment before and who said that at about 105
degrees inside those suits, it's almost unbearable," said Joshua Spero, a former
senior civilian planner at the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a political science
professor at Merrimack College in Massachusetts. The problem is not merely one
of comfort, but one of health and ability to function. Heat casualties could
easily dwarf combat casualties and seriously slow the effort to topple Saddam.

Al Marashi doesn't think Saddam will let loose his weapons of mass destruction
on U.S. forces -- at least not right away: "Saddam uses these chemical weapons
in defensive maneuvers," he said. Al Marashi expects such weapons would be
deployed as invading troops neared Baghdad or were close to dividing the
country.

He also believes invading troops would face stiff resistance only from Saddam's
Special Republican Guard, which he estimates at about 25,000 troops.

"These are people directly from Saddam's tribal area, from his hometown, and
this is the group that's most closely associated with the regime," al Marashi
said. "They know that if Saddam goes, they're going to go along with him."

These troops guard the main routes to Baghdad and likely would be the ones
encountered in any urban warfare scenario.

"Pitched battles in streets are the worst kinds of battles to fight in a war,"
Spero said.

Spero also said that while he sees many differences between the U.S.-led war in
Afghanistan and an invasion of Iraq, there is one significant similarity.

"The fact is we're dealing with unconventional battlefields in either case," he
said, "and that makes it even more difficult for our troops and our intelligence
operatives."

gedmonson@coxnews.com

This article contains material from wire services.

(From box)

U.S. military might in the Middle East

A look at the U.S. forces in the region that could be used in an attack on Iraq:

Kuwait: About 9,000 U.S. military personnel are permanently stationed in the
country liberated from Iraqi invasion in 1991. Two Army and one Air Force base
have been built or upgraded. At least two Patriot anti-missile batteries are in
place.

The U.S. military has pre-positioned enough equipment for two heavy armored
brigades in Kuwait, which include about 115 M-1A1 Abrams tanks, 60 M-2A2 Bradley
fighting vehicles and other equipment, ammunition and fuel.

Bahrain: This island nation in the Persian Gulf is headquarters for the Navy's
5th Fleet. About 4,200 military personnel are stationed here. Bahrain also has
pre-positioned equipment stocks and an air base.

Qatar: About 3,300 U.S. soldiers are stationed here. The United States has
recently upgraded the al Udeid air base with the region's longest runway and
other high-tech features. About 600 top officials from the U.S. Central Command
plan to come here next month, and the Pentagon says the base probably will
become a forward command center.

The U.S. also has pre-positioned equipment for at least one heavy armored
brigade here.

Saudi Arabia: About 6,000 U.S. troops are stationed here. Saudi Arabia has
expressed opposition to a U.S. invasion of Iraq.

Besides pre-positioned equipment, Saudi Arabia is home to a command center at
the Prince Sultan Air Base near Riyadh, where U.S. commanders ran the Persian
Gulf War.

Oman: About 2,400 U.S. troops are here, mostly Air Force personnel.

United Arab Emirates: About 500 U.S. forces, mostly Air Force personnel, are
stationed here.

Turkey: About 1,700 U.S. military forces are stationed in Turkey, mostly at the
air base in Incirlik, where planes patrolling Iraq's northern no-fly zone are
based.

Djibouti: This small nation on Africa's Red Sea coast has been home to about 800
Special Operations troops since April.

At sea: The USS Abraham Lincoln and its battle group are in the northern Arabian
Sea and are expected to patrol in the Persian Gulf. The Lincoln is carrying the
first overseas deployment of the new F/A-18 Super Hornet, which has longer range
and better weapons than older F/A-18 warplanes.

The USS Harry Truman is due in the area late this month.

-- The Associated Press

(Illustration)

Scenarios for attacking Iraq

Leaks from the Pentagon and a visible U.S. military buildup in the Persian Gulf
point to a few broad outlines for an American attack on Iraq.

'Afghan war-plus'

Massive air campaign followed by airborne and amphibious invasion by as many as
80,000 troops. Special Forces would link up with proxy forces, such as the Kurds
in the north and Shiites in the south. The goal: Remove Saddam quickly while
keeping defecting Iraqi units in place to enforce order in the aftermath.

'Baghdad first'

Combination of airstrikes and rapid advance of 50,000 to 70,000 U.S. troops
straight to Baghdad. Avoid battles with bulk of Iraqi army to deliver decisive
blow. The goal: Trigger a collapse from within. Bridges and other infrastructure
would be spared to allow U.S. forces easy movement around the country. Desert
Storm II

Essentially a replay of the Persian Gulf War on a smaller scale, plan involves a
more intense air campaign but a smaller, more quickly deployed ground force
perhaps as many as 250,000 troops. Main invasion would launch from Kuwait, while
airstrikes would be launched from carriers in the Gulf, Turkey, Kuwait and
Qatar.

(Sidebar)

Worst-case scenarios

Saddam lashes out

American casualties could be severe if Saddam, either acting preemptively or in
retreat and with nothing left to gain by forbearance, unleashes his biological
and chemical weapons on U.S. troops. He might also attack Israel with chemical
and biological weapons. If Israel then strikes back, the entire Mideast could
soon be at war.

Urban warfare

We know from Somalia that urban combat is brutal. If the Iraqi military,
especially the well-trained and heavily armed Republican Guard, entrenches
itself in Baghdad and engages American soldiers in street fighting there, the
cost in human life both civilian and military could be tragic.

New generation terrorist

A war with Iraq would divert resources from missions against al Qaeda. A war
with Iraq also could breed even more resentment against the United States in the
Arab and Islamic worlds, creating a new generation of terrorists and fueling
further cycles of terrorist attacks around the world and at home.

Weapons developed since the Gulf War in 1991

MQ-1B Predator UAV

Mission: Low-altitude surveillance and targeting

Maximum altitude: 25,000 feet

Wingspan: 48.7 feet

Length: 27 feet

Payload: 450 pounds

Weapons: Hellfire missiles

Cost: $4.5 million

Number of aircraft: 46

Manufacturer: General Atomics Aeronautical Systems

RQ-4A Global Hawk UAV

Mission:High-altitude reconnaissance

Maximum altitude: 65,000 feet

Wingspan: 116 feet

Length: 44.3 feet

Range: 13,500 nautical miles

Weapons: None

Cost: Estimated to be between $45 million to $50 million

Current inventory: 3, with at least 50 more planned

Manufacturer: Northrop Grumman Corp.

Joint Standoff Weapon

Mission: Long-range guided glide bomb

Contractor: Raytheon Co.

Length: 13.3 feet

Weight: 1,065 pounds to 1,500 pounds

Wingspan: 8.8 feet

Range: Up to 40 nautical miles

Cost: $150,000 each

Deployed: 1999

Joint Direct Attack Munition

Mission: A tail kit that converts unguided free-fall bombs into satellite-guided
precision bombs.

Contractor: Boeing Co.

Length: 10 feet to 12.7 feet

Weight: 1,013 pounds to 2,115 pounds

Wingspan: 1.6 feet to 2 feet

Range: 15 miles

Maximum altitude: Above 45,000 feet

Cost: $21,000 per tail kit, plus cost of bomb

Deployed: 1999

High cost of war

Two estimates by the Congressional Budget Office for U.S. cost of war with Iraq,
in billions of dollars.

Using mostly ground forces Using mostly air forces

Deployment $12.5 billion $8.8 billion

Fighting, first month $9.2 $7.6

Fighting, each month after $7.5 $6.1

Occupation, each month $1 to $4 $1 to $4

Returning troops to home base $7.3 $4.8

Troop strength in the Middle East

Air Force 17,000

Navy 16,000

Navy, on ships 9,000

Army 9,000

Navy, aviation 3,200

Marines 1,500

U.S. weapons in the Middle East

Air Force aircraft 280

Navy aircraft 93

Navy ships 16

Sources: Associated Press, British Broadcasting Corp.,Christian Science Monitor,
Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times, Jane's Information Group,

International Institute for Strategic Studies

(From sidebar)

WAR AND PIECES

Understanding Iraq

This is the third of four Insight primers on Iraq that takes a closer look at:

Oct. 13: The creation of modern Iraq.

Oct. 27: Saddam Hussein and Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.

Today: U.S. military options in Iraq.

Nov. 24: Iraq after Saddam.

Signs that war in Iraq is imminent

* B-2 stealth bombers from Whiteman Air Force Base in rural west-central
Missouri head toward forward bases overseas.

* F-117A stealth fighters from Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico's desert
stream toward airfields in Kuwait. (The F-117 was the only allied plane in 1991
to attack heavily defended Baghdad. Saddam's ground-to-air missiles and
anti-aircraft guns never touched them.)

* The B-1B bomber moves to the region from Dyess Air Force Base near Abilene and
Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota.

* At Fort Campbell, Ky., home of the 101st Air Assault Division, leaves are
canceled and troops are put on a 'short string' for deployment. The fabled
division, known as the 'Screaming Eagles,' is equipped with attack helicopters
and is required to have a brigade of 4,000 troops ready to deploy within 36
hours.

* Other units quickly follow, among them the 1st Cavalry Division from Fort
Hood.

Words and images

A propaganda war invariably precedes a shooting war.

A few months before the Gulf War, a Kuwaiti teenager known as 'Nayirah' told a
U.S. congressional committee that she watched Iraqi soldiers rip respirators
from premature babies in a Kuwaiti hospital. The first President Bush described
the Iraqi villainy as 'babies pulled from incubators and scattered like firewood
across the floor.'

Nayirah turned out to be Nayirah Sabah, the 15-year-old daughter of the Kuwaiti
ambassador to the United States. Her visit to the congressional committee had
been arranged by the global public affairs agency Hill & Knowlton. After the
war, human rights investigators were never able to confirm Nayirah's story.

Regime changes through the years

'Regime change' is the kind of intervention President Bush wants for Iraq and
Saddam Hussein. But regime changes have a way of backfiring.

Since World War II, the United States has ousted at least four heads of state:
Mohammad Mossadegh in Iran in 1953, Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala in 1954, Ngo Dinh
Diem in Vietnam in 1963 and Salvador Allende in Chile in 1973.

The overthrow of Diem was a key moment marking America's descent into the
quagmire of Vietnam. Chile suffered under the harsh rule of Gen. Augusto
Pinochet after Allende was deposed. And Guatemala entered decades of turmoil and
violence after Arbenz was thrown out. Among the countless victims was the first
American ambassador killed on duty, Gordon Mein.

But it is Iran that offers the most pertinent example: After a coup orchestrated
by the CIA and British intelligence deposed the elected government of Mossadegh,
which had nationalized the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., Iran was turned over to Shah
Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. By the 1970s, the shah was squandering billions of
dollars a year in oil wealth on armaments. His jails were packed with the
victims of his secret police. And millions of resentful Iranians began listening
to anti-American clerics, including one named Ruhollah Khomeini.

The overthrow of the shah in 1979 marked the first modern victory of militant
political Islam. It helped inspire jihadists around the world, especially those
in a country left similarly hobbled by regime change: Afghanistan.

Sources: Associated Press, Canadian Broadcasting Corp., Chicago Tribune; History
News Service; San Francisco Chronicle

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               10 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 10, 2002, Sunday

Girding for an invasion of Iraq
As U.N. prepares for inspections, U.S. readies troops for the 'or else'

BYLINE: George Edmonson, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: Insight; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 3403 words


WASHINGTON -- The possibility of a U.S.-led invasion of Iraq appears to loom
larger now that the United Nations Security Council has passed a resolution
demanding that Saddam Hussein accept weapons inspections or face "severest
consequences," as President Bush said.

And now the possibility even has a timetable attached: between now and early
next year.

Of course, experts note, any number of events affecting whether the United
States goes to war -- from Iraqi compliance with the U.N. mandate to new
intelligence information to decisions by other nations about allowing the use of
military bases -- could transpire before Feb. 21, when the new resolution
requires weapons inspectors to report their findings to the Security Council.

And then there is Saddam himself.

"He's really unpredictable . . . he always surprises people," said Ibrahim al
Marashi, an analyst at Monterey Institute of International Studies in California
who specializes in his native Iraq.

Bush has been careful to say that he does not want war. Commenting Friday on the
U.N. resolution he did not specifically threaten Iraq with military force. But
Bush's message to Saddam -- indeed, to the rest of the world -- over the past
several months has been clear: Saddam must disarm or face war. And if the
international community will not force Saddam to comply with U.N. resolutions
set after Iraq lost the 1991 Persian Gulf War, then the United States will lead
a coalition to bring compliance about.

"I think that George Bush and Tony Blair -- their patience is exhausted," said
Charles Heyman, editor of Jane's World Armies in London. Blair, Britain's prime
minister, is America's strongest ally against Iraq.

All the while, the U.S. military continues building up forces in the Persian
Gulf and discussing the situation with its allies in the region. Thousands of
American combat troops recently completed desert exercises in Kuwait, where the
U.S. military has pre-positioned dozens of tanks and other armored vehicles. An
air base in Qatar was recently upgraded to accommodate American warplanes, and
hundreds of top officials from U.S. Central Command arrive in Qatar next month
to establish what probably will be a war's forward command center.

The Pentagon says little publicly about these and other arrangements in Bahrain,
Oman and elsewhere, often characterizing them as exercises or long-planned
events. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, one of the administration's most
outspoken officials on the dangers represented by Saddam, frequently deflects
inquiries about war preparations.

But he told Congress earlier this year that "the Iraq problem cannot be solved
by airstrikes alone." Rumsfeld said that the United States did not know the
location of a "large portion" of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction facilities
and that among those that were known, all were not "vulnerable to attack from
the air." Some are deeply buried, Rumsfeld said. "Others are purposely located
near population centers -- schools, hospitals, mosques, where an airstrike could
kill a large number of innocent people."

Rumsfeld, without specifically mentioning Iraq, also has talked about additional
call-ups of National Guard and Reserve troops.

A number of leaks to the news media have reported details and discussions about
possible invasion plans. Among the key elements cited in various published
accounts, often attributed to unnamed sources:

* Timing: The Iraqi military is not the only foe administration planners must
reckon with in preparing for war with Iraq. Because of the hellish desert
weather of the region, there is a relatively narrow window for military action.

January and February are seen as the best months -- the United States and its
coalition partners launched the 1991 Gulf War in mid-January. The shorter days
play to the U.S. strength in night-fighting. The milder weather also makes it
more comfortable for troops to wear the heavy protective suits necessitated by
the threat of chemical or biological weapons.

There is one drawback to the winter months: They are often wet and cloudy. Cloud
cover can make it difficult for pilots to identify their targets and complete
their bombing runs, though Pentagon officials contend that new, high-tech
targeting devices have significantly reduced the adverse effects of bad weather.

Iraq's deserts begin to get broiling hot in March. Supplying troops with water,
always a major issue in desert climates, becomes even more urgent. Spring and
summer also are given to fierce sandstorms that can wreak havoc with sensitive
navigational equipment and hydraulics, grounding helicopters and stopping tanks
in their tracks.

* Opening: Massive airstrikes against military targets, particularly
communications centers and underground bunkers, are often seen as constituting
the first salvo in any modern war fought by the United States. The Washington
Post reported in September that planners envisioned the air effort lasting
anywhere from "just a day or two" to two weeks before troops begin the ground
campaign.

* Ground troops: Some recent reports say the number of troops needed for an
invasion of Iraq is around 100,000. Various leaks have detailed different
figures -- anywhere from 50,000 for a scenario that has American forces
attacking Baghdad first to 250,000 for a plan reminiscent of the Gulf War --
perhaps reflecting some disagreement among planners about how many troops would
be necessary. One thing all the leaked scenarios have in common is that they
call for a troop number far below the more than 500,000 used in 1991.

* Lab work. An invasion of Iraq would be a laboratory for the Pentagon to try
out some its new high-tech weapons, such as those that destroy an enemy's
electronics systems. The military also undoubtedly would take advantage of the
opportunity to refine other new technologies such as armed aerial drones and the
use of real-time video.

Loren Thompson, a defense analyst at the Lexington Institute near Washington,
said it's impossible to know too far in advance how a military strike might
unfold. A key factor, he said, would be intelligence on Saddam's whereabouts.

"If we know exactly where he is and can track him, we can do this with a small
fraction of the troops we would otherwise need," Thompson said.

Heyman said he believes events are likely to proceed in three phases.

The first would be admission of U.N. weapons inspectors, during which he
anticipates a massive buildup of U.S. and allied forces in the region. If Saddam
doesn't capitulate to U.N. demands, Heyman sees the second phase as "Rumsfeld's
out-of-the-box operation." This operation would include encouraging and
assisting Kurds in northern Iraq to revolt and move south to clamp down on
Iraq's abilities to launch Scud missiles toward Israel. It also would involve a
"huge air campaign" to destroy key military facilities. Precision-guided bombs,
a hallmark of the war in Afghanistan, likely would be used to an even greater
degree during this phase.

But if the out-of-the-box operation -- which Heyman estimates would last six
weeks to give the United States enough time to amass troops for an invasion --
doesn't eliminate Saddam, "then they'll go to the big war." A large ground force
would move across Iraq toward Baghdad "to literally dig Saddam Hussein out."

There is one potential problem with this scenario, according to San Francisco
State University history professor Jerald Combs. If U.S. and British officials
insist on a buildup of forces in the region while weapons inspectors are in
Iraq, they risk being seen as impatient with the inspection process and could
find themselves arguing with other nations -- Russia, France and China, in
particular -- on whether inspections are proceeding adequately.

"It just doesn't look to me we can get this done with any kind of international
support at all by the winter," Combs said.

And as stated, weather is a major consideration because of the desert heat and
its effect on troops wearing protective suits against chemical or biological
weapons.

"I've talked to any number of soldiers, Army and Marines, as well as even Air
Force officers, who've worn this equipment before and who said that at about 105
degrees inside those suits, it's almost unbearable," said Joshua Spero, a former
senior civilian planner at the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a political science
professor at Merrimack College in Massachusetts. The problem is not merely one
of comfort, but one of health and ability to function. Heat casualties could
easily dwarf combat casualties and seriously slow the effort to topple Saddam.

Al Marashi doesn't think Saddam will let loose his weapons of mass destruction
on U.S. forces -- at least not right away: "Saddam uses these chemical weapons
in defensive maneuvers," he said. Al Marashi expects such weapons would be
deployed as invading troops neared Baghdad or were close to dividing the
country.

He also believes invading troops would face stiff resistance only from Saddam's
Special Republican Guard, which he estimates at about 25,000 troops.

"These are people directly from Saddam's tribal area, from his hometown, and
this is the group that's most closely associated with the regime," al Marashi
said. "They know that if Saddam goes, they're going to go along with him."

These troops guard the main routes to Baghdad and likely would be the ones
encountered in any urban warfare scenario.

"Pitched battles in streets are the worst kinds of battles to fight in a war,"
Spero said.

Spero also said that while he sees many differences between the U.S.-led war in
Afghanistan and an invasion of Iraq, there is one significant similarity.

"The fact is we're dealing with unconventional battlefields in either case," he
said, "and that makes it even more difficult for our troops and our intelligence
operatives."

gedmonson@coxnews.com

This article contains material from wire services.

(From box)

U.S. military might in the Middle East

A look at the U.S. forces in the region that could be used in an attack on Iraq:

Kuwait: About 9,000 U.S. military personnel are permanently stationed in the
country liberated from Iraqi invasion in 1991. Two Army and one Air Force base
have been built or upgraded. At least two Patriot anti-missile batteries are in
place.

The U.S. military has pre-positioned enough equipment for two heavy armored
brigades in Kuwait, which include about 115 M-1A1 Abrams tanks, 60 M-2A2 Bradley
fighting vehicles and other equipment, ammunition and fuel.

Bahrain: This island nation in the Persian Gulf is headquarters for the Navy's
5th Fleet. About 4,200 military personnel are stationed here. Bahrain also has
pre-positioned equipment stocks and an air base.

Qatar: About 3,300 U.S. soldiers are stationed here. The United States has
recently upgraded the al Udeid air base with the region's longest runway and
other high-tech features. About 600 top officials from the U.S. Central Command
plan to come here next month, and the Pentagon says the base probably will
become a forward command center.

The U.S. also has pre-positioned equipment for at least one heavy armored
brigade here.

Saudi Arabia: About 6,000 U.S. troops are stationed here. Saudi Arabia has
expressed opposition to a U.S. invasion of Iraq.

Besides pre-positioned equipment, Saudi Arabia is home to a command center at
the Prince Sultan Air Base near Riyadh, where U.S. commanders ran the Persian
Gulf War.

Oman: About 2,400 U.S. troops are here, mostly Air Force personnel.

United Arab Emirates: About 500 U.S. forces, mostly Air Force personnel, are
stationed here.

Turkey: About 1,700 U.S. military forces are stationed in Turkey, mostly at the
air base in Incirlik, where planes patrolling Iraq's northern no-fly zone are
based.

Djibouti: This small nation on Africa's Red Sea coast has been home to about 800
Special Operations troops since April.

At sea: The USS Abraham Lincoln and its battle group are in the northern Arabian
Sea and are expected to patrol in the Persian Gulf. The Lincoln is carrying the
first overseas deployment of the new F/A-18 Super Hornet, which has longer range
and better weapons than older F/A-18 warplanes.

The USS Harry Truman is due in the area late this month.

-- The Associated Press

(Illustration)

Scenarios for attacking Iraq

Leaks from the Pentagon and a visible U.S. military buildup in the Persian Gulf
point to a few broad outlines for an American attack on Iraq.

'Afghan war-plus'

Massive air campaign followed by airborne and amphibious invasion by as many as
80,000 troops. Special Forces would link up with proxy forces, such as the Kurds
in the north and Shiites in the south. The goal: Remove Saddam quickly while
keeping defecting Iraqi units in place to enforce order in the aftermath.

'Baghdad first'

Combination of airstrikes and rapid advance of 50,000 to 70,000 U.S. troops
straight to Baghdad. Avoid battles with bulk of Iraqi army to deliver decisive
blow. The goal: Trigger a collapse from within. Bridges and other infrastructure
would be spared to allow U.S. forces easy movement around the country. Desert
Storm II

Essentially a replay of the Persian Gulf War on a smaller scale, plan involves a
more intense air campaign but a smaller, more quickly deployed ground force
perhaps as many as 250,000 troops. Main invasion would launch from Kuwait, while
airstrikes would be launched from carriers in the Gulf, Turkey, Kuwait and
Qatar.

(Sidebar)

Worst-case scenarios

Saddam lashes out

American casualties could be severe if Saddam, either acting preemptively or in
retreat and with nothing left to gain by forbearance, unleashes his biological
and chemical weapons on U.S. troops. He might also attack Israel with chemical
and biological weapons. If Israel then strikes back, the entire Mideast could
soon be at war.

Urban warfare

We know from Somalia that urban combat is brutal. If the Iraqi military,
especially the well-trained and heavily armed Republican Guard, entrenches
itself in Baghdad and engages American soldiers in street fighting there, the
cost in human life both civilian and military could be tragic.

New generation terrorist

A war with Iraq would divert resources from missions against al Qaeda. A war
with Iraq also could breed even more resentment against the United States in the
Arab and Islamic worlds, creating a new generation of terrorists and fueling
further cycles of terrorist attacks around the world and at home.

Weapons developed since the Gulf War in 1991

MQ-1B Predator UAV

Mission: Low-altitude surveillance and targeting

Maximum altitude: 25,000 feet

Wingspan: 48.7 feet

Length: 27 feet

Payload: 450 pounds

Weapons: Hellfire missiles

Cost: $4.5 million

Number of aircraft: 46

Manufacturer: General Atomics Aeronautical Systems

RQ-4A Global Hawk UAV

Mission:High-altitude reconnaissance

Maximum altitude: 65,000 feet

Wingspan: 116 feet

Length: 44.3 feet

Range: 13,500 nautical miles

Weapons: None

Cost: Estimated to be between $45 million to $50 million

Current inventory: 3, with at least 50 more planned

Manufacturer: Northrop Grumman Corp.

Joint Standoff Weapon

Mission: Long-range guided glide bomb

Contractor: Raytheon Co.

Length: 13.3 feet

Weight: 1,065 pounds to 1,500 pounds

Wingspan: 8.8 feet

Range: Up to 40 nautical miles

Cost: $150,000 each

Deployed: 1999

Joint Direct Attack Munition

Mission: A tail kit that converts unguided free-fall bombs into satellite-guided
precision bombs.

Contractor: Boeing Co.

Length: 10 feet to 12.7 feet

Weight: 1,013 pounds to 2,115 pounds

Wingspan: 1.6 feet to 2 feet

Range: 15 miles

Maximum altitude: Above 45,000 feet

Cost: $21,000 per tail kit, plus cost of bomb

Deployed: 1999

High cost of war

Two estimates by the Congressional Budget Office for U.S. cost of war with Iraq,
in billions of dollars.

Using mostly ground forces Using mostly air forces

Deployment $12.5 billion $8.8 billion

Fighting, first month $9.2 $7.6

Fighting, each month after $7.5 $6.1

Occupation, each month $1 to $4 $1 to $4

Returning troops to home base $7.3 $4.8

Troop strength in the Middle East

Air Force 17,000

Navy 16,000

Navy, on ships 9,000

Army 9,000

Navy, aviation 3,200

Marines 1,500

U.S. weapons in the Middle East

Air Force aircraft 280

Navy aircraft 93

Navy ships 16

Sources: Associated Press, British Broadcasting Corp.,Christian Science Monitor,
Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times, Jane's Information Group,

International Institute for Strategic Studies

(From sidebar)

WAR AND PIECES

Understanding Iraq

This is the third of four Insight primers on Iraq that takes a closer look at:

Oct. 13: The creation of modern Iraq.

Oct. 27: Saddam Hussein and Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.

Today: U.S. military options in Iraq.

Nov. 24: Iraq after Saddam.

Signs that war in Iraq is imminent

* B-2 stealth bombers from Whiteman Air Force Base in rural west-central
Missouri head toward forward bases overseas.

* F-117A stealth fighters from Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico's desert
stream toward airfields in Kuwait. (The F-117 was the only allied plane in 1991
to attack heavily defended Baghdad. Saddam's ground-to-air missiles and
anti-aircraft guns never touched them.)

* The B-1B bomber moves to the region from Dyess Air Force Base near Abilene and
Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota.

* At Fort Campbell, Ky., home of the 101st Air Assault Division, leaves are
canceled and troops are put on a 'short string' for deployment. The fabled
division, known as the 'Screaming Eagles,' is equipped with attack helicopters
and is required to have a brigade of 4,000 troops ready to deploy within 36
hours.

* Other units quickly follow, among them the 1st Cavalry Division from Fort
Hood.

Words and images

A propaganda war invariably precedes a shooting war.

A few months before the Gulf War, a Kuwaiti teenager known as 'Nayirah' told a
U.S. congressional committee that she watched Iraqi soldiers rip respirators
from premature babies in a Kuwaiti hospital. The first President Bush described
the Iraqi villainy as 'babies pulled from incubators and scattered like firewood
across the floor.'

Nayirah turned out to be Nayirah Sabah, the 15-year-old daughter of the Kuwaiti
ambassador to the United States. Her visit to the congressional committee had
been arranged by the global public affairs agency Hill & Knowlton. After the
war, human rights investigators were never able to confirm Nayirah's story.

Regime changes through the years

'Regime change' is the kind of intervention President Bush wants for Iraq and
Saddam Hussein. But regime changes have a way of backfiring.

Since World War II, the United States has ousted at least four heads of state:
Mohammad Mossadegh in Iran in 1953, Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala in 1954, Ngo Dinh
Diem in Vietnam in 1963 and Salvador Allende in Chile in 1973.

The overthrow of Diem was a key moment marking America's descent into the
quagmire of Vietnam. Chile suffered under the harsh rule of Gen. Augusto
Pinochet after Allende was deposed. And Guatemala entered decades of turmoil and
violence after Arbenz was thrown out. Among the countless victims was the first
American ambassador killed on duty, Gordon Mein.

But it is Iran that offers the most pertinent example: After a coup orchestrated
by the CIA and British intelligence deposed the elected government of Mossadegh,
which had nationalized the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., Iran was turned over to Shah
Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. By the 1970s, the shah was squandering billions of
dollars a year in oil wealth on armaments. His jails were packed with the
victims of his secret police. And millions of resentful Iranians began listening
to anti-American clerics, including one named Ruhollah Khomeini.

The overthrow of the shah in 1979 marked the first modern victory of militant
political Islam. It helped inspire jihadists around the world, especially those
in a country left similarly hobbled by regime change: Afghanistan.

Sources: Associated Press, Canadian Broadcasting Corp., Chicago Tribune; History
News Service; San Francisco Chronicle

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               11 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 11, 2002, Tuesday

Austin Ventures' startup fund cut

BYLINE: John Pletz and Cara Anna AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1000 words


Austin Ventures joined the growing roster of major venture capital firms that
have decided it's better to give back than to receive new investments.

Austin Ventures, the largest venture firm in the Southwest, has told investors
who agreed last year to pony up $1.5 billion for a new fund that it now will
need only about half that much, $830 million.

The firm notified investors after deciding that it couldn't put all the money to
work in the next few years without changing direction into new industries and
types of investments. General Partner John Thornton said the firm decided to
stick with what it knows best -- investing in very young Texas software,
communications and semiconductor companies -- and spend less money to do it.

Coming from the region's marquee venture capital firm, the move is a striking
symbol of the changing climate for young companies. Financial backing is much
harder to come by and the amounts are much smaller than in the go-go days of the
high-tech boom. The amount of money invested in Austin startups last year was
down 50 percent from 2000, although the number of deals fell just 31 percent.

"If AV has less money to put to work, that's not a good thing," said Bob
Miracky, president of Austin startup Teravicta Technologies Inc., which makes
connection products for wireless devices. Austin Ventures is not an investor in
Teravicta, but the company is likely to hunt for more money at some point. "It's
a firm any early-stage company has to consider at some point."

At software company Troux Technologies Inc., which raised $3 million from Austin
Ventures last year, chief executive Hank Weghorst is more optimistic.

"I don't see it affecting their ability to do business," he said. "It's
something the entire industry is doing now. The money is still there for funding
the basics."

Even with the cutback to $830 million, the fund is the biggest of the eight
Austin Ventures has raised in the last 20 years.

Thornton said the firm has invested about $130 million of the fund in 15 deals,
leaving $700 million to invest in new companies, most of it in Texas.

Other venture firms have reduced or even canceled funds as the tech boom has
fizzled, and many are not raising new money because they have have plenty left
from funds they raised a year or two ago. Thornton said Austin Ventures partners
had been thinking about the move since the beginning of the year.

There are plenty of reasons for the pullback.

The stock market is in a funk, and investors are spurning tech companies. After
a number of startups cashed in on the late-1990s Internet boom, the quantity and
quality of new companies is down.

But the biggest reason is that venture backing goes a lot further today than it
did just two years ago. The price investors are willing to pay for a stake in a
company has fallen dramatically.

No longer can entrepreneurs with little more than a business plan and a Web site
name their price. The days of premium offices and big staffs for young, untested
companies are gone.

Two years ago, Thornton said, a lot of software startups received $60 million to
$70 million in venture backing to keep them going until they generated enough
money to pay their own way.

"Now we believe those companies need $15 million to $20 million," he said.
"Eventually, that math had to get reconciled."

Thornton said Austin Ventures decided to ask for less money from its investors
rather than change its strategy from investing in very young companies to doing
later-stage deals that are less risky but also produce lower returns.

Austin Ventures isn't sending money back to investors; it's just telling them it
won't need as much money as planned. When venture firms raise money for a fund,
they get commitments from investors, and draw on that money as they find
promising companies to back.

"I give these guys a lot of credit for what they've done," said Peter Lawrence,
managing partner at FLAGVenture Partners of Stamford, Conn. Lawrence's firm was
a first-time investor in Austin Venture's latest fund. "It's a clear and
intelligent response to how much the market has changed."

"They did the right thing, in my opinion," said Dave Mazza, managing partner at
Grove Street Partners in Wellesley, Mass., which manages about $3.5 billion for
pension funds and private investors. "I think they looked at what they could do
in high-quality deals for the next few years, and they chopped the size of their
fund appropriately."

Austin Ventures also will move its AV Labs spinoff, an incubator for young
companies, in-house. AV Labs had operated as a separate entity and in separate
downtown offices.

It will move into Austin Ventures' new offices at 300 W. Sixth St.

"With a 45 percent smaller fund, we find it redundant and confusing to maintain
a dedicated software-incubation facility," Thornton wrote in a memo to
investment companies and others who do business with the firm.

AV Labs' staff, including partners Rob Adams and Mike Rovner, will become part
of Austin Ventures.

The decision to cut the size of the fund means some pain for Austin Ventures, as
well as for startup companies.

Most firms charge a management fee of about 2 percent, as well as taking a cut
of the eventual profits when the companies they back go public or are sold.
Cutting the size of the fund means Austin Ventures is giving up about $100
million in potential fees.

"It the short term, it's going to cost them," Mazza said. "It means
significantly diminished economics."

But longer term, he said, "I think they'll perform better with that size fund.
What that does is give you a lot of credibility with the (investors). That will
come back to help them later when they want to raise another fund."

jpletz@statesman.com; 445-3601

canna@statesman.com; 445-3639

In stalled technology market, investment firm puts less cash into companies

(see microfilm for graph)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               13 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 19, 2002, Wednesday

Dealing with bullying to deter battery

BYLINE: Susan Smith, American-Statesman Columnist

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 511 words


The request took them back to the school playground.

"Take a moment to remember when you were teased, bullied or harassed," Barri
Rosenbluth told educators, counselors and others gathered at the SafePlace
campus in Austin.

Everyone at the workshop titled "From Bullying to Battering" had a childhood
story that was remembered as vividly as a first nightmare.

Then Rosenbluth asked, "What did you or the target need from adults and peers?"

"Someone to tell the adults" and "someone to tell the bully to stop" were among
the answers from an audience made up mostly of women.

SafePlace helps families when a crisis has struck, whisking women -- and
sometimes men -- to a secure emergency shelter. But the organization, which
opened a new family shelter in the past year, also is there before there's a
crisis, executive director Kelly White said.

Monday's conference explored the links between what's often dismissed as child's
play in elementary school and what, if unchecked, could become dating violence
in high school.

On behalf of SafePlace, Rosenbluth has developed nationally recognized
school-based programs for preventing bullying, sexual harassment and dating
violence.

In a national survey, school-age children said bullying was a bigger problem
than drugs and teen sex.

On Monday, eyes were fixed on a crayon drawing of a girl holding 200-pound
weights in each hand as Rosenbluth discussed the results of a pilot project at
six Austin elementary schools. Bullying made the girl feel weighted down, the
artist wrote underneath her tortured self-portrait.

One of the things children, teachers and parents learned from the pilot program
was the importance of intervening when someone is being bullied or harassed,
Rosen- bluth said.

"Most of us are witnesses and bystanders. To have our buddies intervene with us,
then you change the climate of our schools," said Nan Stein, a national expert
on sexual harassment, gender violence, and teasing and bullying in schools.
Stein, who spoke at the conference, is the author of "Bullyproof: A Teacher's
Guide on Teasing and Bullying for Use With Fourth and Fifth Grade Students."

And perhaps then you change the climate in many homes. When bullying and sexual
harassment go unchecked in elementary schools, the behavior could condition
students to accept mistreatment in their relationships, program advocates say.
The program will expand to more Austin-area schools in the next academic year.

There are factors but no absolute predictors of who will be in an abusive
relationship. But teaching young people respect for others and themselves can
help them create healthy relationships as adults.

Gloria Amaya and her 12-year-old son David were stabbed by her estranged husband
this month in a very public act of violence. Gloria Amaya is recovering; her son
is dead. Years from now, school-based programs might just stop the violence that
took her son's life.

Susan Smith's column appears Wednesdays and Saturdays. Contact her at (512)
445-3871 or ssmith@ statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               14 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 23, 2002, Sunday

A lament for Texas' lost chance to clear the air

BYLINE: Steve Bickerstaff, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: Insight; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1154 words


The recently released "U.S. Climate Action Report 2002" predicts that
temperatures will increase on average by 5 to 9 degrees in the United States
(oh, those Texas summers!) during this century. Compiled by the Environmental
Protection Agency, the report contends that it is too late for us to do anything
about global warming but "adapt" to the inevitable changes that will occur in
water supplies, vegetation, the occurrence of infectious diseases and living
conditions.

The report should be a stark reminder to Texans of one of the least known but
most deplorable and environmentally damaging episodes in the recent history of
our state.

In 1995 the policies of Gov. George W. Bush and the political expedience of
environmentalists combined to destroy a program that could have significantly
reduced the release of greenhouse gases through the testing and control of
motor-vehicle emissions. Without that program, air quality and greenhouse gases
attributable to motor vehicle emissions in Texas have worsened significantly.

In the early 1990s the EPA concluded that air quality in several of the major
urban regions in Texas -- Houston-Galveston, Dallas-Fort Worth, Beaumont-Port
Arthur and El Paso -- had deteriorated so greatly that Texas needed to adopt a
means of testing and reducing motor-vehicle emissions. Under Gov. Ann Richards,
Texas authorized and designed such a program in these regions that complied with
the EPA's mandate.

By Jan. 1, 1995, the contracts had been executed and the necessary 55 testing
centers were in place -- on schedule, at below cost, and without any expenditure
of taxpayer money. For a moment in time, Texas had the best motor-vehicle
emissions testing program in the world. As my wife so succinctly observes, "For
once Texas was leading this nation in something other than the number of
criminals being executed." If as successful as expected, the program could have
provided a model for such programs elsewhere in the United States and possibly
the world.

However, political conditions changed. The 1994 election not only resulted in
Bush defeating Richards, but also was seen nationwide as indicating a major
shift in voter sentiment toward conservative policies. National Republican
leaders, such as Newt Gingrich and Tom DeLay, became emboldened in their attacks
on "liberal programs," "big government" and "federal intrusion" in private and
commercial affairs. Radio talk shows added volume to this condemnation. Texas'
emissions testing program soon became a fashionable target.

Although testing facilities were fully operational by Jan. 1, 1995, the
Legislature repealed the state laws that had created the emissions testing
program, thereby killing it before it began and leaving private contractors
facing economic ruin.

Many people and groups share responsibility for what happened. Many state
legislators (most of whom had voted only two years earlier to create the
program) thought it politically expedient in 1995 to sacrifice the program.
Foremost among these was Democratic state Sen. John Whitmire of Houston, who
began publicly attacking the program in December 1994 and led the legislative
campaign in early 1995 to repeal the enabling laws. In a conversation with me in
December 1994, Whitmire said, "Steve, there is no one in the current political
environment who can dare oppose my plan to repeal the emissions testing
program." I warned Whitmire that repeal of the laws and abrogation of the
program contracts would lead to massive state liability. Both Whitmire and I
proved to be prescient.

Repeal of the enabling laws would not have been possible in 1995 without the
active support and effort of Bush and his staff. They openly displayed their
happiness with the opportunity to destroy the emissions testing program both as
a vestige of the "liberal" tenure of Richards and as a prime example of the kind
of unwarranted government intrusion that they felt should be ended. Bush's
efforts were egged on by Republican congressional leaders who claimed that
federal environmental laws also would soon be weakened to eliminate the
authority of the EPA to mandate programs such as the one in Texas.

Democrats and environmental organizations in Texas, however, also bear
significant responsibility for the destruction of this valuable program. At
least for some Republicans, killing the program was consistent with their
traditional goal of less government. But Democrats and environmental groups
acted against their basic tenets out of a fear of political realities.

Shocked by the apparent tide of conservatism in the 1994 election, the
politicians and groups in Texas that had designed and supported the program
became muted by political expedience. Some, like Whitmire, suddenly became
advocates of state's rights; others simply ran for cover as they saw the
potential political cost to them of openly opposing what appeared to be the
inevitable. Fearing the power of the new conservative Republican majority in the
U.S. House, the EPA began backpedaling and soon indicated to Texas that the
federal regulations that had mandated the emissions program would not be
enforced.

By the time politicians and environmental groups realized that anti-regulatory
sentiment among voters was weaker than it appeared in the 1994 election, the
emissions testing program in Texas had been destroyed.

Initial efforts to revive the program through litigation were blocked by state
agency officials in the Bush administration. Finally in 1998, a state court
found the state liable for more than $200 million for its abrogation of the
program contracts. This monetary judgment and the subsequent settlement are the
largest ever against the State of Texas.

Texans now face a much worse situation. Seven years of vehicle emissions have
gone essentially unchecked, and the state's air is even fouler than before. Now,
in 2002, Texas is again implementing a plan (although inferior to the 1995
program) for mandatory emissions testing and repair of motor vehicles in certain
areas of the state. It is too little, too late.

As a lifelong Texan, I take pride in this state's tradition of independent
thought and action. Texans, however, also must accept our responsibility for
degrading this world's atmosphere and contributing to global warming. In 1995,
we mindlessly forfeited an extraordinary opportunity to reduce our contribution
of gases that cause this warming. Instead, Texans chose political expedience and
our own personal convenience over the future health and living conditions of our
offspring. This is a terrible legacy for me to leave for my granddaughters.

Steve Bickerstaff led the team of Austin lawyers that won the $200 million
judgment against the state mentioned in this article. For the past four years he
has been teaching law at the University of Texas. He can be reached at
sbickerstaff@mail.law.utexas.edu.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               15 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 19, 2002, Tuesday

IBM to build the world's fastest supercomputers// Austin designers will play a
major role with machine that will simulate nuclear testing

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 647 words


IBM Corp. has won a $290 million federal contract to make the world's two most
powerful supercomputers, and the company's Austin operation is right in the
middle of the project.

Big Blue says the computers for the Department of Energy will have more
computing power together than the world's current top 500 supercomputers
combined. The two machines will be the first to have computing power that is
equal to or greater than that of the human brain.

The two computers will have very different jobs and will be put together by
different parts of IBM. ASCI (Advanced Simulation and Computing Initiative)
Purple will be used by researchers to simulate and model U.S. nuclear weapons
systems as a substitute for underground nuclear testing. The second computer,
Blue Gene L, will be used in a range of scientific research, from studying
global climate change to investigating the interaction between air pollution and
the chemical makeup of the atmosphere.

Both computers will be housed in the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory near
Oakland, Calif. ASCI Purple will be delivered to the government in stages in
2003 and 2004. Blue Gene will be delivered in 2004 or 2005.

IBM Austin is most closely tied to the ASCI Purple project. That computer, which
will be housed in a computing center about the size of two basketball courts,
will use Austin-designed processor chips, Austin-developed software and
Austin-designed computer systems.

Here's how it will be put together: The basic building block for the computer is
the Austin-designed next-generation Power 5 processor, which succeeds the Power
4 chip being used in the company's successful Regatta servers. The supercomputer
will use 12,544 processors housed in 196 refrigerator-size enclosures called
nodes. Those nodes will be tied together with a superfast fiber-optic data
highway that will exchange information at blistering speed. The computer works
by breaking up big problems into smaller parts that can be worked on by separate
nodes.

The actual assembling and testing of the supercomputer takes place at IBM's
supercomputer engineering center in New York.

Ravi Arimilli, the Austin-based IBM Fellow who is chief architect of IBM's
eServer business, said both new supercomputers will be more than just big and
fast. Both will automatically monitor their operations for problems and
inefficiencies and "heal" themselves when they spot errors. They also will
offload some repetitive tasks to specialized hardware "accelerators" that will
do the work at much faster rates.

"Customers want computer solutions that are dynamically changing with the work
that is being done," Arimilli said. "These systems will do that."

Because of those self-managing features, Arimilli says, the ASCI Purple computer
will require far fewer people to manage its operations than did the previous
supercomputer -- ASCI White -- that IBM delivered to the Energy Department three
years ago.

The Blue Gene computer will use even more processors -- 65,536 -- and it will be
designed especially to attack some kinds of scientific problems. Much of the
design work for Blue Gene was done at IBM's research labs in New York, but some
work also was done in Zurich, Switzerland; Tokyo and Austin.

Arimilli describes ASCI Purple as a very fast "general purpose" supercomputer,
while Blue Gene is designed to concentrate on several areas of specialized
scientific research. Blue Gene will be even more powerful than ASCI Purple,
delivering 360 trillion calculations per second at peak performance.

Analyst Charles King of the Sageza Group in Mountain View, Calif., said IBM is
one of a shrinking number of companies that has the brainpower and the deep
pockets required to win big supercomputing contracts.

"It looks like IBM will go to the head of the class with this announcement and
stay there a while," King said.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               17 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           April 10, 2002, Wednesday

Wine festival sees a bouquet of confusion

BYLINE: Jordan Mackay Special to the American-Statesman

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 622 words


The Hill Country Wine and Food festival can be viewed as a sort of birthday
ritual for the Texas wine industry. This year, though there was much to
celebrate, not every candle on the cake was blown out. The official theme of
this year's Texas Hill Country Wine & Food festival was Italy, and while Italian
food and wine were well-represented, the wines were not presented in a coherent
fashion. The California and Italian comparative wine tasting, held Saturday
morning at the Four Seasons, was a messy and unfocused exercise. Jumbled
together on a panel of eight were a couple of Italian wineries, a few California
wineries founded by Italians, and a few non-Italian California wineries that
happen to produce wines from Italian varieties.

No substantive discussion of the cross-cultural exchange was attempted. It would
have been intriguing to see the dapper young Federico Ceretto critique the
Barbera produced by Renwood of California. Barbera is among the signature grapes
of Italy's Piedmont region, from which Ceretto had traveled to represent his
family's winery. Similarly, California's Niebaum-Coppola and Sebastiani both
showed up with Zinfandel, thought to be a relative of Italy's primitivo grape.
Yet no Italian primitivo was offered to contrast the California wines.

The moribund Cal/Ital panel was a foil to the preceding panel on Texas wine,
where discussion was lively and at times almost heated. Much credit for this
goes to the moderator, New York Times correspondent R.W. Apple. Opening with
praise for the industry, Apple said that among the Texas wines he tasted were
some he thinks "are very close to world class." But he also set a tone of
good-natured openness (at the expense of decorousness) when he said that "it is
invidious to name favorites, so I'll do just that" and called Paul Bonarrigo of
Messina Hof Winery, a man known for his flashy fashion sense, "a peacock."

More than ever before, the soul-searching of the Texas wine industry was
apparent. The challenge of growing grapes of the quality needed to make
top-notch wines in Texas has long fueled argument over the grape varieties best
equipped for this climate: supposed "hot weather" (and less famous) grapes such
as syrah or tempranillo versus the classic varieties of cabernet sauvignon and
merlot. The former may produce better wines in Texas, but they're harder to move
in the marketplace.

Kim McPherson of North Texas' Cap*Rock winery presented his Toscana Rosso, a
wine composed of 88 percent Italian nonclassic varieties, and declared
passionately that nonclassic grapes such as sangiovese are keys for Texas'
eventual success in wine quality. Catching himself before ruffling the feathers
of other panelists, he said, "I'm trying not to get up on a soapbox, but it
seems I already have one foot up there." It was a shame that he didn't lift the
other as well -- heated discussion makes for entertaining panels. Another shame
was the absence from the panel of Texas winemaker Jim Johnson of Alamosa
Cellars, a leader in the movement to grow hot-climate grapes such as tempranillo
and grenache. "I felt like they were talking about me, even though I wasn't up
there," he said.

Nevertheless, change is afoot throughout the industry. One audience member
pointed out that of the eight Texas wines represented, none were the
once-ubiquitous chardonnay, an unthinkable proposition only a few years ago.

Plenty of French and California wines were auctioned off at the annual Rare and
Fine Wine Auction on Thursday night, including six bottles of Mondavi Reserve
cabernet sauvignon that fetched $1,450. Still, the stars of the festival were
the up-and-coming Texas wines, most of which retail for less than $20.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vineyards such as Texas Hills Vineyard in Johnson City are finding the
right grapes for our climate.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               18 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 11, 2002, Saturday

GOP strategist, a Texas native, is leaving party

BYLINE: Jena Heath, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 622 words


WASHINGTON -- Looking for John Weaver these days?

Try Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood.

U.S. Sen. John McCain's 2000 campaign political director moved there two weeks
ago, fresh from a divorce -- and that's not the only big change.

The former executive director of the Texas Republican Party and national field
director for U.S. Sen. Phil Gramm's 1996 presidential bid, the man who broke
ranks with the George W. Bush camp to join McCain's presidential bus tour, has
left the GOP.

He's helping the New Hampshire Democratic Party's efforts to win Gov. Jeanne
Shaheen a U.S. Senate seat and strategizing for the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee's midterm election candidates.

The change doesn't puzzle Weaver, a Kermit native and Texas A&M University
graduate, but it is provoking something stronger than raised eyebrows among his
former Republican brethren.

"The guy drinks the McCain Kool-Aid and has never fully recovered," GOP
consultant Scott Reed said.

Weaver, of course, sees things differently.

"I don't think it surprised one person in McCain- land," he said. "I think they
thought I was a Democrat all along anyway. My still-Republican friends have
gotten feedback. It's nasty stuff. It's not surprising."

Hard feelings remain between the Bush and McCain camps nearly 18 months after
the election, and theories abound about McCain's falling-out with Bush political
strategist Karl Rove years ago. Weaver doesn't talk about it except to say that
Rove has no effect on his plans.

"As a longtime Republican strategist, I hate losing guys like John Weaver, and
yet at the same time, the welcome mat at the Republican Party wasn't out for
John," said Rick Davis, McCain's former campaign director.  "It doesn't surprise
me that he pursued this option, but obviously I wish he'd stayed Republican so
we can use him some more."

Other Republicans are sniping, privately, of course, that Weaver is no loss.
After all, didn't he predict that if turnout in 2000's make-or-break South
Carolina primary hit 325,000, "then we're in good shape"? Turnout hit a
record-breaking 573,101, and Bush won.

"Obviously, we didn't know what we were talking about," Weaver said three days
later.

Weaver's wasn't the only cracked crystal ball. Rove's prediction that his
candidate would win 320 electoral votes was followed by the 36-day Florida
recount.

And Weaver isn't alone in the spirit of bipartisanship. This week, Bush media
adviser Mark McKinnon said he would apologize to the president after his $14,000
in contributions to three Texas Democrats -- U.S. Senate candidate Ron Kirk,
lieutenant governor candidate John Sharp and Kirk Watson, the former Austin
mayor running for attorney general -- became news.

Weaver attributes his party change to discontent with the GOP.

"Basically, I look at the Republican Party and how it's controlled really for
the interests of the corporate elite of this country," he said. "I don't see it
changing, certainly not in the foreseeable future. The issues I care about --
the environment, social issues, increasing a minimum wage, a fair tax code --
don't fit anywhere underneath the Republican umbrella."

These days, Weaver is looking forward to taking his 9-year-old daughter on the
Democratic campaign trail. His divorce became final about a week ago, and his
ex-wife remains in New Hampshire, where the family moved, in part, because the
climate helped her cope with multiple sclerosis.

He said he's always wanted to live in New York. Not even being mugged when he
went out to buy newspapers recently has changed his mind.

"A guy pulled a knife on me," Weaver said. "There was a bit of a scuffle, but
everything's OK."

jenah@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Texas A&M grad John Weaver, left, was political director of Sen. John
McCain's failed bid for the presidency in 2000.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               19 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 19, 2002, Saturday

Has mold met its match?
Building science could succeed where traditional construction has failed in
preventing home scourge

BYLINE: Julie Bonnin, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: Business; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1231 words


For years, experts in building science -- the technologists of construction --
have predicted that changes in materials and improper and outdated installation
techniques, among other factors, would eventually cause widespread mold problems
for homeowners.

However, word rarely filtered down from the researchers with doctorates to the
guys in the pickups doing the work, said Doug Garrett, president of Central
Texas-based Building Performance & Comfort.

But as concerns about mold have grown, builders have turned to building science
for answers. Preventing this costly problem likely will require a new approach
to house building.

Garrett is a frequent speaker on the topics of moisture management and air
quality and a member of the Texas Department of Health's mold policy committee.
Audiences such as the air-conditioning contractors he spoke to recently are
hungry for such information.

"I finished speaking at 12:15 and they were still asking questions at 1:30," he
said.

Garrett is among those getting the word out on how to stem the swelling tide of
mold problems in homes and other buildings. He and Terry Brennan, a New
York-based air-quality expert who also has advised the Texas Department of
Health, are among those scheduled to speak at the International Green Building
Conference Nov. 13-15 in Austin.

With Joseph Lstiburek (pronounced stee-brook), a forensic engineer who is one of
the world's foremost experts on energy-efficient construction, Garrett and
Brennan are busy advising contractors, architects and others on how to do things
right when it comes to designing and constructing buildings.

What's gone wrong is a combination of factors, they say.

Some building materials in widespread use -- paper-covered gypsum board,
cellulose ceiling tile, particle board and others -- happen to be great food for
mold, which can grow wherever moisture accumulates.

Other materials that in widespread use -- fiberglass and cellulose cavity
insulation, polyethylene vapor retarders, vinyl wallpaper -- make it harder for
walls to dry out.

Add tight windows and other features designed to boost energy efficiency, and
the lack of air flow creates moisture problems.

Houses have always leaked, Lstiburek said, "but that incidental water didn't
mean much because the building dried so quickly. Now we have to choose different
techniques to install windows and doors."

Another factor, he said, is "cold climate chauvinism" in nationwide building
codes: Many good building practices for northern climates have been enforced in
places such as Texas, even when they didn't make sense for the state's hot and
humid climate.

Thousands of homes built in Austin in the 1970s and '80s, for example, were
built with a "vapor barrier" consisting of a sheet of plastic stapled underneath
the drywall. Vapor-proofing was designed to keep moisture out of walls in the
North, but in the South, it works in reverse.

Water vapor moves from warm to cold and from wet to dry. In the North, that
warm, moist air is on the inside of the house, and the vapor barrier serves to
keep it from infiltrating the walls. In the South, the warm, wet air is on the
outside, trying to move inside, and the vapor barrier effectively traps the
moisture within the walls.

The vapor barrier was the perfect place for mold to grow, fed by condensation
caused by humidity in the air, Garrett said. The building code requiring the
vapor barrier in most parts of Texas was changed last year, he said.

Although some have accused builders of cutting corners and not allowing
materials to dry properly as they hurried to meet the housing boom, Garrett said
that is less of a contributing factor to problems with mold than the trend
toward building complicated structures.

"A lot of the houses having the worst problems are the large custom-built
homes," Garrett said. "The bigger the house, and the more roof angles you put
into a house, the more difficult it becomes to do a decent job. When you have
lots of complicated details -- curved walls, huge walls that are mostly windows
-- it's no wonder you have problems."

All of the discussion about mold has been tracked closely by the Texas
Association of Builders, which will propose legislation this year that would put
a tighter rein on the state's building standards.

The group has also been working on a building guide with tips for preventing
mold in homes, video training guides for construction workers, and
recommendations for going beyond building-code standards when necessary, said
Kristi Sutter- field, executive vice president of the organization.

The association also is working on a homeowner responsibility checklist that
would be distributed to new homeowners when they close on their home.

"This (mold prevention effort) is the biggest undertaking we've taken on,"
Sutterfield said. "We're recognizing that we need to get in and roll our sleeves
up and provide homeowner education, builder education and have more input into
the government regulation agencies that play a part in all of this."

Ryland Homes is one of several area home builders that try to use some of the
new building techniques.

Ryland builds houses using a program it calls HouseWorks, which uses many of the
building science techniques recommended by the nation's top construction experts
to prevent mold.

Key to the program is making sure that the plumbing system, the heating and
air-conditioning system, insulation and thermal envelope of the house -- the
windows, doors and siding -- all work together, said Randy Erwin, energy program
director for Ryland Homes.

It might sound like common sense to have everything working as a system, but
tradi- tionally, construction of many homes is done piecemeal, with separate
contractors installing such things as plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
roofing with little regard to how they all work together.

Ryland brought in experts who trained subcontractors and superintendents, and
developed an inspection team. Sales people also had to be educated about how to
sell the new homes.

Although there are added costs to running the program, Erwin said: "It's not so
much the cost that deters (other) builders, it's that it makes it much more
complicated."

But it's worth the trouble, Erwin said.

"Our warranty claims have dropped substantially," he said. "We know we're having
less problems with homes. It's a lot easier to do it right the first time than
to retrofit something."

(from box)

International Green Building Conference and Exposition

More than 2,000 professionals are expected to attend the inaugural International
Green Building Conference and Exposition at the Austin Convention Center, Nov.
13-15.

Speakers will include David Suzuki, scientist and host of "The Nature of Things"
on PBS, as well as experts on various sustainable-building topics. Sponsors
include the Urban Land Institute, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Austin
Energy Green Building Program.

The sessions are primarily for architects, engineers and other building
professionals.

On Saturday, there is a tour of six 'green' building sites in Austin, including
single-family houses, a multifamily project, a school, a research facility and
an office building. More information can be found on the conference Web site,
www.usgbc.org/expo, or by calling 505-3700.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Doug Garrett, president of Building Performance & Comfort, is among
those getting the word out about how to stem the swelling tide of mold problems
in homes and other buildings. // Randy Erwin

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               20 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          December 21, 2002, Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Another budget burden: rubbish!
Austin might face choice of higher fees or different pickup days for different
trash

BYLINE: Jonathan Osborne, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 774 words


Residents seeking to understand Austin's grim financial outlook need look no
farther than their garbage cans.

To avoid charging residents almost $9 more per year to cart away trash, yard
clippings and recyclables because of rising operating costs, the city might ask
some neighborhoods to set each of those disposables out on as many as three
separate days.

"If you could save a rate increase by moving to separate pickups, would you do
it?" City Manager Toby Futrell said. "What is the convenience worth to you?"

City Council members had better get used to that question, because they'll be
hearing it often once the 2004 budget discussions begin in January -- the
earliest a council has ever started meeting about the city's annual financial
outlook.

"We have a very, very rough year ahead of us in '04," Futrell said. "It's been a
long time since we've asked this community what their priorities are. We have
some serious decisions to make about scaling back to spend what we're making.
I'm hoping that message is loud and clear."

Dipping property tax revenues next year will lead to a significant, but
yet-to-be-determined gap in the general fund, which will force the council to
whittle down basic services.

As it stands, the city would have to raise the property tax rate just to yield
the same amount of revenue that taxes provided in 2003.

Things could get even tighter if sales tax revenues don't turn around.
December's numbers -- which reflect sales tax revenue from October, the
beginning of the city's fiscal year -- already are down 3 percent from last
year.

The city staff has forecast a 2 percent improvement for the year, said acting
Assistant City Manager John Stephens. But each month that revenue slides,
meeting that forecast becomes less likely.

"Unless it starts climbing fast, we're going to be in a pickle," Stephens said.

Last year, the city closed a $72 million gap by freezing more than 320 positions
and reworking how it operates. This year is "going to be a lot harder," Stephens
said, "because we've already cut so much."

Considering the political climate, spending on public safety, which accounts for
more than half of the general fund, might actually increase.

And once it's taken off the table, "there's nothing easy left," Stephens said.
"We're talking about real blood this time. Everybody's going to have to scrub
their budget."

That includes streamlining garbage pickup and disposal, he said.

"Right now, citizens get sort of the Cadillac level of service," Stephens said.

That service level, however, doesn't make the best use of garbage trucks'
capacity or the time of the trash collectors.

Here's why: More people put out garbage each day than recycling or yard
trimmings. And because the recycling and yard trimming trucks must time their
routes to coincide with trash collection each week, they typically don't fill
up.

If they weren't latched to the garbage collection schedule, those trucks could
pick up more of the city's recycling on a single day and spend less time each
week doing it.

Changing the schedule could trim almost $1 million a year from operating costs
for recycling, Stephens said.

If Austin also privatized the operation of the city-owned landfill near
Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, the city could avoid replacing old
equipment, saving a one-time $1.7 million.

And the city could save even more annually by restructuring the Solid Waste
Services department and privatizing recycling pickup, Stephens said.

Together, these measures could put off a rate increase for at least the next two
to three years, city officials said.

"Again, what we're really talking about here is convenience," Futrell said.

Without making any service changes, residents who pay about $14.50 a month for
garbage collection would have to pay about 5 percent, or 72 cents, more.

Dale Detwiler, who manufactures glow-in-the-dark, scratch-and-sniff greeting
cards from his home office on Highland Avenue in Old West Austin, said he
produces more trash than the average person.

But Detwiler said it makes no difference to him whether the city changes the
rates or meddles with the collection days.

"Nobody knows what it cost to pick up their garbage except for a few cranks,"
Detwiler said. "If the city was talking about something radical, like, 'We're
not picking up lawn clippings anymore,' that maybe would rile people up.

"I don't think it makes a dog's bit of difference," he said. "This city does a
pretty good job with garbage. I've lived some places where they don't."

josborne@statesman.com; 445-3621

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2002, Tuesday

CORRECTION: On Page B1 of Saturday's Metro & State section, a story about how
city finances could affect trash services was incorrect in reporting which
services the city is considering privatizing. The city is considering
privatizing the sorting and processing of recycled material.

GRAPHIC: The city's operating costs for trash and recycling collection are up,
and officials say they're either going to have to slightly increase what
residents pay or change the way garbage pickup is scheduled. They say the way
trucks make their rounds now is not efficient. Charley White watches in his
rearview mirror as a trash container's contents are dumped into a City of Austin
refuse truck.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               21 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 3, 2002, Sunday

Witness to war
Photograhing Afghan refugees, Austinite Alan Pogue chronicles a nation's pain,
one face at a time

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 717 words


Austinite Alan Pogue -- Vietnam vet, peace activist, documentary photographer --
recently spent 10 days in northern Pakistan on assignment for a Japanese peace
organization known as Global Peace Campaign. Based in the northwest city of
Peshawar, Pogue sought out Afghanistan civilians, now refugees, whose lives have
been disrupted by the war.

Pogue visited hospitals, refugee camps, prosthetics factories. He photographed
heroin addicts on busy downtown streets and Afghan children scavenging through
trash. He also shot photos of civilian refugees who have been maimed -- either
by land mines, or mortar fire, or bombing raids.

"The Afghans were very warm and accepting people, happy to welcome me into their
refugee camps and into their humble dwellings," said Pogue, who wrote these
photo captions. He has previously documented the lives of war victims in Central
America, the West Bank and Iraq. "Once again, I've seen thousands upon thousands
of people being hurt not by a natural disaster, but by a catastrophe forced upon
them by political forces over which they have no control."

During his visit (from Dec. 26 to Jan. 4), Pogue was fascinated by the social
landscape in Peshawar, in which two very large groups of people -- Afghan
civilians driven from their homeland and the community of impoverished
Pakistanis -- find themselves competing over scarce resources.

"The impoverished Pakistanis were somewhat jealous," said Pogue, "because at
least some of the Afghan refugees were getting either international aid or help
from the Pakistani government. Yet the natives of Pakistan were not, though they
were not in any better condition."

-- Brad Buchholz

The refugee camps

Some of the camps in the vicinity of Peshawar date back to Russian times. One,
Khacha Ghari, is like a city within a city, with its own culture, and has been
there for years. But I also went to newer camps, where the people lived in tents
and new refugees were coming onto the grounds every day.

The streets

Peshawar is a sprawling city, home to hundreds of thousands of people. There are
people on cell phones, people with donkey carts. It's a 17th-century place with
the veneer of the 21st century. Gas is very, very expensive. A Toyota Corolla or
a Honda Civic is a status symbol. You see a lot of two-seat vehicles, Cushman
motor scooters, all kinds of cars and vans you'd never see in the United States,
because they're only two passengers wide. A lot of streets are so old, so
narrow, that an American-sized car could never maneuver through them. // I //
Walking around Peshawar, I would occasionally see people doing

The maimed

During my first days in Peshawar, I visited the Khyber General Hospital, which
treats many Afghan refugees who have been wounded in the war. In this compound,
there is also a rehabilitation wing, therapy and psychological counseling
centers and even a prosthetics-making school. //

This woman is learning to make a prosthetic leg in the school. Women are able to
learn prosthetics-making because,

(captions, continued)

1) there are so many land mines, 2) women get their legs blown off, too, and 3)
women prefer to be treated by women, particularly those belonging to the most
conservative parts of Muslim culture. This horrible situation has opened an
opportunity for these women to learn the art and science of prosthetics-making.
// This woman, sitting in a hospital examination room, was walking across a
field in Afghanistan to visit her daughter when she stepped on a land mine that
blew her leg off. Like many people with artificial limbs, this woman -- whom I
knew as Mrs. Bahanar -- has had to return to this facility to be refitted, to
have the stump of her leg re-examined. Besides being photographed by an unknown
man, she's obviously embarrassed and sad in this moment. // While I was at the
hospital, I ran into these two Afghan men -- a father and son, who live in the
tribal territories near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The father, 52, had his
arm shot off during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The son, 25, had one
hand blown off and several fingers on his other hand blown off by a land mine.
The son explained that he and his friends had been playing soccer, when somehow
or another they tripped a land mine.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In the words and photos of Alan Pogue: This Afghan father, Abdul Rahim,
and his daughter Sadiga have been displaced by the war and are now living in
tents in the Shamshatoo refugee camp in Peshawar, Pakistan. His daughter is sick

they are waiting to see the doctor. As refugees, they are in limbo -- and they
don't know what's going to happen one day to the next. You see that lack of
equilibrium in them, that 'life out of balance.' // This is an Afghan boy in the
Shamshatoo refugee camp -- and I took his portrait because of his striking eyes,
which are outlined with kohl. Look at his sweater. Look at the texture of the
fabric. You wouldn't say, by looking at this photo, that this is a poor refugee
child. But what I found is that most refugees 'look' good.  Wool is plentiful.
Cloth of good quality is cheap. I had an entire garment made -- tailoring and
fabric -- for $8, and I'm sure they hiked the price. So in a sense, you can look
good -- yet still be hungry. // I saw a lot of kids picking through trash

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               22 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

So long, Sen. Gramm, we'll miss you

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 711 words


Looking over a crowd of Travis County Republicans gathered for a fund-raiser in
his honor several years ago, U.S. Sen. Phil Gramm delivered a message: "I have
carried every county in this state except Travis and that is a great source of
embarrassment . . . for you."

No one ever claimed that Gramm was modest, nor would anyone ever characterize
him as taciturn or apologetic. Gramm, after all, is a political product of a
state that prides itself on larger-than-life everything. When Congress convenes
in January, it will be the first time in 24 years that Gramm isn't representing
Texas. The senator leaves office today, hanging it up early so that his
successor, John Cornyn, can get a bit of a head start on the incoming freshman
class.

If anyone in public life appreciates a political head start, it's Phil Gramm.

As the senator noted, Travis County never had a warm spot for him, and the
feeling was said to be mutual. Nonetheless, he was present when the federal
building on Ninth Street was renamed in former U.S. Rep. Jake Pickle's honor.
Not only was Gramm present, but he was eloquent and sincere in his praise for
the Democrat, who represented the Austin area. And whatever he thought about
Travis County, Gramm did sample opinion here and liked to leave with a little
something in his campaign pockets.

Whatever is said about Gramm -- and a lot is said -- he relished political
combat and was good at it. Like every other human being on the planet, the
senator was multidimensional.

His critics made him a caricature, a pol straight out of the movies with his
drawl, his love of political money and his unwavering advocacy of his principles
and himself. Nonetheless, Gramm could be charming, attentive and witty in small
groups. His doctorate in economics was citizenship into the heady world of
intellectuals and academe, but he spoke plain English, making him truly
bilingual. His position of power in the Senate gave him entry into the world of
global and national politics, but he wasn't about to abandon Dickie Flatt, the
printer whose homespun wisdom Gramm often cited in speeches.

Here was a guy whose conservative principles often were the target of his
critics, but he did something early in his career that was a real act of
courage: After leaving the Democratic Party in 1982, Gramm resigned the House
seat to which he had been safely re-elected and stood in a special election as a
Republican. He said then that people ought to have a choice. They chose him.

Though he is about as self-confident a fellow as you ever would meet, he could
go against type and be the anti-prima donna. In the late 1980s, he was the
centerpiece of a news conference called by then-Austin Mayor Lee Cooke to
announce some sort of long-forgotten initiative.

One reporter from the Austin American-Statesman showed up for the event, which
was staged at the Zilker Park Club House -- a place with a stunning view of the
downtown skyline that cameras love. Gramm greeted the local reporter by name,
then made small talk until it became painfully clear that no one else was
coming. The senator then read his statement as if the entire Washington press
corps had shown up, answered questions and left. If he felt any pique, Gramm
never let it show. This is the same Phil Gramm who inspired the term "Gramm
standing" -- which means don't get between him and a camera.

During his tenure in both the House and Senate, Gramm was under constant fire
for one thing or another. His style attracted criticism. So did his deeds,
particularly his ties to Enron -- his wife was on the corporation's board even
as he steered legislation in the Senate that favored he fallen energy giant --
and his taking of a job as an investment banker with financial giant UBS
Warburg, a post expected to be quite lucrative.

That announcement gave Gramm critics another shot at him. And in typical Gramm
style, he just let them holler. For of all the things his critics would say, the
one thing they could never do was beat him.

We often were in strong disagreement with Gramm on this page, but we came to
admire his political skill and his adherence to his beliefs. Texas will miss
him. His critics, even, are going to miss him.

So long, senator, and good luck.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From his pre-politics days as a Texas A&M professor in 1974, left, to
powerful U.S. senator, Phil Gramm has been steadfast in his style and beliefs.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               23 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 4, 2002, Friday

Letters

SECTION: News; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1173 words


Respecting the rights of others

Don Wright's Dec. 29 cartoon deals with the unwanted consequences of preventing
a speaker from delivering a message.

Booing a speaker because you disagree with a point of view is a two-edged sword,
which was wielded at the University of Texas by Robert Jensen et al. to silence
a conservative message.

Obviously, Wright hates it when the sword cuts the other way. No one should be
silenced. If you disagree, leave or withhold applause. When I was in grade
school this was called, "respecting the rights of others."

EMANUEL GROVE

Austin

Just around the corner?

After the loss of trillions of dollars of stock value, we are told Wall Street
economists "just didn't see the market collapse coming." Now they assure us
"recovery is just around the corner." Do you believe both statements?

Next, they'll tell us President Bush's connection to Enron is less important
than Bill Clinton's Whitewater fiasco.

C. K. ROBERTS

Austin

Hungry for books

Two recent letters made excellent points about the accessibility of popular
books to poor children. The first pointed out that the Harry Potter books are
too expensive for Reading is Fundamental; thus, students served by RIF are often
unable to own the books. The second writer argued that libraries provide an
alternative source. Unfortunately, the Harry Potter series and other popular
books are not easy to find.

As a reading specialist, when my children ask for a specific book, I am thrilled
to buy it for them because I know that reading and book ownership spur academic
progress.

I have spent several years working with students in East Austin. The children
are hungry for books. Yet often, these children must wait months to read popular
books. Children who want to read deserve to read and own books.

JO WORTHY

Austin

Time to add lanes

For the past two decades, we in Austin have said "don't build it and they won't
come." So we didn't build any new roads, but we were wrong about not attracting
growth. There is no magical solution to today's transportation plans because of
the grave mistakes we made 20 years ago.

The argument that adding lanes to highways such MoPac Boulevard will cause even
more growth is sheer insanity because we don't have enough highway capacity for
today. Our highways are going to be rolling parking lots for some time to come,
and we need all the help we can get.

SAM WELLS

Leander

No heroism in spending

Unlike all of the talking heads calling on Americans to head to the malls and
car lots to give our economy a boost, I see no heroism in spending beyond one's
means. There are already 1.4 million personal bankruptcies declared annually in
the United States; we don't need the additional financial stress. I also see no
patriotism in buying a gas-guzzler that increases our dependence on oil and
exacerbates climate change.

Regardless of how full or empty my wallet, I will demonstrate my patriotism by
driving less and conserving heat and electricity in my home.

Patriotism is not about running our bank accounts into the red just to
perpetuate the status quo; it's about making our great nation -- and the world
-- a better place for ourselves, our neighbors and our children.

CORINNA KESTER

Austin

Rights aren't absolute

Letters published recently in varying degrees blasted President Bush's
administration and Attorney General John Ashcroft regarding military tribunals.
If readers took the time to read about the proposed military tribunals, they
would find that they will be conducted by our military and not by our judiciary.
The military tribunals will not be under Ashcroft jurisdiction.

All people who live in this country are not citizens and as such are not all
accorded the same rights as those of us who are. When my wife and I lived in
Germany, we had to abide by German laws. We were legal residents, but we were
not citizens, and as such were not accorded the same rights as German citizens.
That's the way it is here in the United States as well.

We have a president we can be proud of. He is doing an outstanding job.

ROGER J. BENKOVIC

Georgetown

Similar stimulus plans

A lot of people toss around the phrase "corporate welfare," but few apparently
know what it is. Corporate welfare consists of tax benefits for corporations'
specific actions, such as offering health insurance, building new facilities,
hiring new employees and training them.

President Clinton implemented "empowerment zones" that created thousands of jobs
for America's poorest people, and the impetus for the empowerment zones was pure
corporate welfare: tax benefits for new businesses and training and insurance
for employees.

President Bush's economic stimulus package is stalled in the Senate. Sen. Tom
Daschle wants what amounts to a few dollars a week for people who are currently
unemployed, President Bush wants to create jobs by expanding on the concept that
made President Clinton's empowerment zones so effective in creating jobs. You
tell me who is "for the working people of America."

CARL SWANSON

Austin

cswanson@austin.rr.com

Gun laws aid terrorists

The recent anti-terrorism legislation approved by Congress and signed by
President Bush fails to address one critical need -- weak federal firearm laws
that terrorists exploit to stockpile deadly weapons.

Under the Brady Law, gun buyers must undergo criminal background checks only
when they buy firearms from licensed dealers. Unfortunately, federal law allows
unlicensed vendors to sell firearms with no background check.  Millions of
firearms change hands every year through this back-door yet perfectly legal
method, giving criminals and terrorists remarkably easy and undetectable access
to weapons.

We can no longer allow the purchase of firearms through the Internet or a
newspaper ad, at a gun show or a flea market, or in any other type of sale from
an unlicensed seller, without any background check or other record of purchase.
The stakes are too high.

ARCHIE GRESS

Austin

Not the right man

It looks appears the City of Austin's good ol' boy network is alive and well
("Human resources director named Austin Energy chief," Dec. 22). City Manager
Jesus Garza promoted his friend Juan Garza to Austin Energy general manager, a
position for which he is not qualified.

How can the city manager believe anyone would believe that as long as you are a
good manager, you can run a technical department as complex as one that
generates and distributes electrical power? Perhaps Jesus Garza has been the
city manager too long. The City of Austin has a long history of hiring or
promoting people into positions they are not qualified for, and taxpayers pay
for the mistakes.

Austin Energy needs a leader who understands the beast he or she will manage,
and hiring someone who knows little about electrical generation or this
department is wrong and could become an expensive mistake.

We all need to start asking "who works for whom?"

HAROLD BEUCUS

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               24 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 31, 2002, Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Making over Robert Mueller Municipal Airport
Redevelopment ideas
prepare for takeoff
Two groups unveil proposals for 700 acres today

BYLINE: Leah Quin, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1538 words


For nearly two decades, the vision of an ideal urban neighborhood has shimmered
over the now-closed Mueller airport.

The city's final plan for the airport, the result of four years of work by
surrounding neighborhoods, planners and design consultants, presents this
concrete tundra as a 700-acre opportunity to put much-espoused principles into
practice.

Affordable. Close to downtown. Environmentally conscious. Easy to walk to
places. A compact mix of houses, offices, shops. Home to people of various
incomes. And green. Not to mention the base of an economic dynamo to electrify
still-lagging East Austin.

Today, dreams will confront reality as two candidates submit detailed proposals
showing how they would realize and pay for the city's plan for the redevelopment
of Mueller airport.

But the largest city real estate undertaking in history, an unmatched
opportunity to mold the future of the area for decades, is already beset by
worries.

Developers are worried that the only people not consulted during the planning
phase were developers; neighbors are worried that the developers will want to
reshape the city plan to suit their ends; others are worried that a plan
designed during Austin's economic heyday is so out of step with the times that
it may take much longer than the estimated 20 years.

Today's milestone, already several months late, will be followed by months of
haggling before the City Council decides which company will get to continue
negotiations.

The contenders are Catellus Development Corp. of San Francisco and a local
coalition of firms called the Mueller Redevelopment Team Ltd.

The proposals, still mostly secret, describe how the companies would bring about
thousands of residences, millions of square feet of office space, shopping,
restaurants, parks, social services, government offices and a town center.

And the University of Texas has told the local group that it might contribute a
300,000-square-foot center for biomedical engineering and nanotechnology, plus
practice fields for the football team. The two development companies concede
that some parts of the city's plan, particularly its recommended 5 million
square feet of office space, may have to change.

Amendments are a touchy subject. Those who helped draft the city's final plan
say they expect variations, as at least two decades of market forces are brought
to bear on the project.

But too much change could alter the nature of the project, and right now, no one
is sure where the tipping point is.

The schedule might land the City Council's decision of which company to
negotiate with smack in the middle of May elections that could oust three
sitting members.

And that could provide leverage for surrounding neighborhoods, said Jim Walker,
chair of the nine-member Mueller Implementation Commission, a group of
neighborhood residents and business people charged by council members to advise
them on a final decision between developers.

Walker, who lives near Mueller and is director of the Sustainability Indicators
Project, told members of the Mueller Neighborhoods Coalition on Tuesday night:

"We don't expect this to drag into the height of election season. But our
obvious trump card is to make this a political issue. If it gets to a point
where we're not being allowed to steer anymore, and we don't like where we're
going, we may want to rock the boat."

If that sounds presumptuous, consider that the entire notion of Mueller as an
example of virtuous urban planning sprang from residents motivated by the desire
to move the airport out of their neighborhood.

"We wanted a model for the way we should be treating urban areas," said
architect Girard Kinney, a member of the now obsolete Citizens for Airport
Relocation. "We convinced ourselves the way to get the airport relocated was to
demonstrate that what took its place could solve problems . . . like breaking
the (Interstate) 35 barrier . . . breaking class barriers and traditional images
of East Austin."

Kinney's 1984 draft of a development plan evolved into a proposal that mirrors
those promoted nationally under the banner of New Urbanism or traditional
neighborhood design.

Both candidates for Mueller's master developer boast experience in this kind of
project, even as they strike different themes when promoting themselves.

Catellus stresses its experience in developing complicated projects, its
successful relationships with national tenants and even its outsider status.

"Their vision for East Austin breaks through the paradigms and expectations
about land east of I-35," said the company's Austin representative, lawyer Pete
Winstead. "Frankly, it's like having a fresh set of eyes."

The Mueller Redevelopment Team, on the other hand, is resolutely local, although
it is made up of both Texas and multistate companies.

"If we do this, our reputations, not only national, but local, are very
important," said Terry Mitchell of Milburn Homes. "If something goes wrong,
it'll affect our reputations. We are citizens here. We're not going to let that
happen." Travis County has publicly expressed interest in 20 acres for offices.
And both Catellus and the Mueller Redevelopment Team have talked with KLRU-TV
about making Mueller its new home for offices and "Austin City Limits" studio
space, said Mary Beth Rogers, station president and CEO.

Developer and philanthropist Dick Rathgeber, a member of Mueller Redevelopment,
plans a Children's Village where social service agencies could be clustered
together to alleviate stress on traumatized children often shuttled from one to
the other.

If chosen, Catellus would also work with Rathgeber to build the complex,
Winstead said.

Amid the scenarios, the contenders say they are concerned about filling up the
plan's 5 million feet of office space, when downtown Austin has a total of 7
million square feet of commercial space and occupancy rates of 81 percent, the
lowest in at least 12 years.

"Without some kind of economic stimulus, such as a biotech center, the current
office market will not support an additional 5 million feet of office space,"
Rathgeber said.

Winstead said current absorp- tion rates would dictate much slower building --
about 75 years, rather than the city's estimated 20.

But others said it's impossible to predict demand, particularly if a large
employer becomes involved.

"I've lived through five cycles as a developer," Catellus CEO Nelson Rising
said. "Just because things are down today doesn't mean they stay down."

When all is said and done, Catellus expects a 20 percent return rate on dollars
invested, Winstead said.

Mueller Redevelopment's people declined to say what profit margin they expect,
although Rathgeber opined, "We don't think that old hog's that fat."

"We do not view this as a tremendous opportunity for making money," he added.
"This is a civic opportunity."

But as the gap grows between the city goals and business needs, some sort of
public assistance is expected, with the leading possibility a tax-increment
financing district, in which the city waives property taxes until the
developer's investment on infrastructure is recouped.

Of course, that may be a harder sell with the public in today's economic
climate.

"The bloom's a bit off the incentive rose," Winstead admitted. "But you've got
to balance that with getting the old airport on the tax rolls. . . . You should
get it all back in ad valorem and sales tax, or you shouldn't be in the
incentive business."

You may contact Leah Quin at lquin @statesman.com or (512) 445-3621.

(from box)

Samples of the types of ideas being proposed for Mueller property

Catellus Development Corp., San Francisco -- Major projects include Mission Bay
in San Francisco, a former rail yard near the city's downtown and the future
site of two apartment buildings, a 270,000-square-foot office building and a
low-cost housing project developed with the City of San Francisco. Catellus also
built warehouses at the site of Denver's closed Stapleton Airport, which at
4,700 acres is considered the nation's largest infill development.

Mueller Redevelopment Team Ltd., Austin -- A joint venture by D.R. Horton Inc.
(Milburn Homes), JPI real estate, Cousins Stone LP, Cencor Urban and the
developers of Avery Ranch, Robert D. Wunch Development and Dick Rathgeber. Major
projects of the individual companies include housing at Denver's Stapleton
Airport; the Arboretum Market, a 240-million square feet retail center in North
Austin; and Las Colinas, a 12,000- acre residential and office community in
Irving.

(from box)

City's plan for the Mueller site

* More than 4,000 apartments, condos, row houses and single-family homes

* 5 million square feet of office space; 3 million of retail space

* 160 acres of green space, including walkways, parks, fields, playgrounds,
hike-and-bike trails

* Interconnected, narrow streets; space for a light-rail extension through the
middle of the property

* Environmental guidelines such as drainage ponds to reduce erosion and the use
recycled, nondrinkable water for irrigation

* Total cost estimate for infrastructure: $79 million to $98 million

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2002, Friday

CORRECTION: An article on Page B1 of Thursday's Metro & State section about the
redevelopment of the Mueller airport site misstated the size of the Arboretum
Market. It is 240,000 square feet.

GRAPHIC: Competing development groups will submit proposals today for a city
contract to turn the former Robert Mueller Municipal Airport into an urban
center of offices, retail outlets, homes and amenities. The contract likely
won't be decided for months.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               25 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 22, 2002, Friday

Austin Inc.

BYLINE: Shonda Novak, Lori Hawkins and Amy Schatz, American-Statesman

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 323 words


With luck, Wanfu will open on Barton Springs

Some might say the art deco-ish building on Barton Springs Road near Zilker Park
is a cursed location. It's been home to everything from a Brazilian cafe to an
ice cream shop. But Leon Tran thinks the Chinese restaurant that he plans to
open next month in the former Maggie Moo's is bound to succeed -- especially
with a name like Wanfu.

"Wan means 10,000, and fu is luck," said Tran, who owns the original Wanfu
Chinese Restaurant on East Oltorf Street. "It means a lot of luck."

Wanfu Too! will stand out amid the nearby Tex-Mex eateries.

Tran said he's not worried about the ongoing road construction that has caused
headaches for other businesses. Work on the north side of the road, where the
restaurant will be, will wrap up soon and move to the opposite lane.

Tech awards show canceled

The high-tech shakeout has so many Austin startups and entrepreneurs coming and
going that a popular annual awards show honoring them has been canceled.

The Austin Players Awards, put on by the Technical Business Network for the past
four years, was created to recognize tech companies with 200 or fewer employees.

"There has been so much movement -- people have left town, new people have come
in," said Sonia St. James, chief executive of the organization. "With everything
in flux, and given the volatile economic climate, we decided to wait a year."

The show will return in 2003, St. James said.

Overheard in Austin

"For $50 million, I'll change my name to Red McCombs."

-- Southwest Airlines founder Herb Kelleher, left, razzing fellow University of
Texas donor Red McCombs during the

KLRU Distinguished Speaker series. Last year, UT renamed the business school in
honor of McCombs after the car dealership and NFL owner donated $50 million.

American-Statesman staff writers Shonda Novak, Lori Hawkins and Amy Schatz
contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This building on Barton Springs Road has been home to eateries such as
Peso's, Maggie Moo's and, soon, Wanfu Too!

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               26 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 4, 2002, Monday

U.S. Olympics berets for just a little gold

BYLINE: Jane Greig American-Statesman

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 800 words


Q: I noticed during the Olympics many of the U.S. athletes wearing Roots berets
-- navy with red trim. Where can I get one? They were surprise hits -- selling
retail at the Olympics for retail of $25 and being hawked for as high as $300. I
could go for $25 but not $300!!!

-- Leah Hoguel

A: Best source for the popular beret (more than 150,000 sold)? Contact the
manufacturer, Roots, Ltd. at (800) 208-0521.

Q: I am a suffer from fibromyalgia sufferer and can often tie my painful
flare-ups to weather changes such aslike cold and storm fronts.  If I could
afford to escape to a climate that had the fewest weather changes in the world,
where exactly would that be? I probably really wouldn't want to leave Austin,
but a nice pain-free vacation might be nice!

-- Debbie Combs

A: That is a difficult call.

You can search data provided by the National Climatic Data Center at
www4.ncdc.noaa

.gov

Q: I recently bought tickets to a music concert at the Paramount. The tickets
were to have become available at noon on a Friday. I went to their website Web
site no more than 10 minutes after noon and asked for the best tickets
available.

I ended up with seats several rows back and in the left wing. Could all of the
mid-section tickets have been sold in 10 minutes? Or do those who donate money
to the Paramount get first chance at tickets before they officially go on sale?

-- Ron Brown

A: You are fortunate to have tickets at all.

Emily Schulze, spokeswoman for the Austin Theatre Alliance,

Upshot/Update/Uproar:

Need a guide to Texas' Best Outdoor Summer Camps? Send a self-addressed stamped
No. 10 envelope to: Outdoor Summer Camps, Texas Parks & Wildlife magazine, 3000
S. IH35 Interstate 35, Ste. Suite 120, Austin 78704 for a free copy of their
eight8-page guide.

Contact Jane Greig at P.O. Box 670, Austin 78767; (512) 445-3697; e-mail
jgreig@statesman.com or fax (512) 445-3968. For more Jane Greig, visit
www.statesman.com/life/greig.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               27 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 1, 2002, Monday

Bare-bones bliss, Lean times build better companies, startups say

BYLINE: Lori Hawkins, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Tech Monday; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1442 words


When Keith Jones started software company ThinkShed Inc. in January 2000, he
planned to scoop up some of the venture capital that was flowing so freely.

But then the Nasdaq plunged, the market for initial public offerings dried up,
and investors turned bearish on technology startups. After hearing "No" from
more than 30 venture capitalists from here to Silicon Valley, the 31-year-old
Jones realized he wouldn't get much outside help.

So he kissed his BMW M3 convertible goodbye and used the $35,000 it brought to
get his company off the ground. ThinkShed's software helps companies evaluate
mergers and acquisitions as well as change strategies.

Instead of the plush office space off Loop 360 he had envisioned, the company
headquarters was Jones' living room. He convinced three programmers to develop
the first version of the product for free, promising them stock options if it
succeeded. Jones himself didn't take a salary for 18 months.

"It's a hard way to build a business, but I would not change it," says Jones,
who says his company currently generates $30,000 a month in sales. "If I had
raised that money, I would have gone out and blown through it like everyone
else. Doing it on your own builds scar tissue, and that makes you stronger."

A new generation of Austin startups is rediscovering the art of bootstrapping.
They're launching their companies without venture capital, just like in the old
days -- say, the 1980s.

To be sure, this is bootstrapping, high-tech style. Generations of entrepreneurs
have scratched together savings to open small businesses without the luxury of
having a BMW to sell. And, as Jones discovered, a lot of young companies have
little chance to secure venture money. ThinkShed, for example, is in the highly
competitive business of evaluating mergers, a field in which investment bankers
and law firms already have deep roots.

For those who have been around long enough to see a few high-tech business
cycles, the new frugality is a natural progression. Easy money comes and then it
goes. In the long run, veteran entrepreneurs say, tougher times will breed
better companies.

"They'll be built with stronger teams, and they'll be built with the passion to
make a difference, to make something enduring," says Andrew Heller, chief
executive of Heller Associates, which advises and invests in startups, and a
longtime mentor of Austin high-tech entrepreneurs. "We're going to end up with
more solid companies, and a much larger percentage of those companies will
survive."

Bryan Menell is among those taking a different route. The last time he started a
company, he took it public in less than two years. Internet services company
Perficient Inc. raised $8 million through its initial pubic offering in 1999, a
time when many tech startups were focused on growing at all costs. And like a
lot of companies that went public in the 1990s, Perficient has struggled, with
its stock price entrenched in low single digits. Shares in Perficient closed at
$1.64 Thursday. The IPO did help Perficient compete with publicly traded rivals
and win customers that were leery of working with a private startup.

For Menell, money has been harder to come by this time around. In June, when he
began shopping his new idea, an online education company called Fusion Learning
Systems Inc., investors weren't interested. "They told me they'd been burned in
e-learning, and didn't want anything to do with it," Menell says. "So I said,
'Fine, I'll do it myself.' "

Instead of shareholders, Menell is relying on a combination of $50,000 on credit
cards, a $350,000 line of credit from Silicon Valley Bank and $100,000 of his
own savings to fund Fusion Learning, which helps companies handle and assess
their online training programs.

"That's a half-million bucks in working capital, and we didn't have to give away
any equity," he says.

For the first three months, Menell ran Fusion Learning from his house and paid
just $150 a month for a service that answered phones, took in mail and provided
a conference room as needed.

"Little did anyone know we were working from my living room," he says. "Why
spend a huge amount of money until you can go prove your idea?"

When Fusion Learning becomes profitable, which Menell is projecting in the
second quarter, he plans to pursue what is a foreign concept to many tech
entrepreneurs: a Small Business Administration loan.

"That kind of loan will let us grow at a pace that's right, instead of one
that's dictated by investors," says Menell, who has signed nine customers,
including resort managers Club Corp. of Dallas, and expects to post revenue of
$3.5 million this year. "We don't need the speed that venture capital brings."

Venture drawbacks

Menell says there's another big reason to avoid venture money: "horrible"
valuations for companies. A valuation is the estimate of a company's total worth
from an investor's point of view. The higher the valuation, the more money
entrepreneurs typically can raise from investors, and the less equity they must
give up.

But whether valuations are horrible, venture capitalists say, depends on your
point of reference.

"We're simply back to the way it was always done before the bubble," says Steve
Vandegrift, a venture capitalist with Techxas Ventures in Austin. "The reality
is, you're no longer going to raise $20 million in (your first round of
funding). You'll be lucky to raise $3 (million) to $5 million. And whether you
like it or not, you're going to give up a third to half of the company."

Venture capitalists are also increasingly holding entrepreneurs to a series of
fixed milestones that must be met as frequently as every month in order to
receive the money pledged.

A company that announces a $20 million funding might actually receive an initial
payment of just $5 million and another $5 million when it releases its first
product. It would receive the last two chunks when it signs a certain number of
clients or launches additional services. A couple of years ago, that company
would have received one lump sum with no conditions.

The lower valuations and new demands are prompting many entrepreneurs to hold
out as long as possible before raising money. That's fine with Vandegrift.

"The new attitude is, 'I'm not going to the VCs until the last minute because
then I'll get a better deal,' " he says. "We prefer it that way, because if they
wait until they have something to show for themselves, it's better for the
entrepreneur and it's better for us."

That's because a startup that already has a product and some initial customers
is less of a risk for venture capitalists than an idea on a napkin. As a result,
venture capitalists will typically put a higher valuation on a company that has
done some ground work.

Sweat, blood and tears

Six-month-old BuildForge Inc. is trying to build first and raise money later.
The software company, which is creating tools to help software developers
increase productivity, is paying $267.50 a month for a 150-square-foot office in
the Austin Technology Incubator, and founders are forgoing salaries. Its two
engineers and two marketers are working for stock with the understanding that if
and when the company raises money, they'll get salaries.

"If we can get sales rolling and start generating revenues, that puts us in a
lot better position as far as having to take whatever valuation is given to us
versus negotiating," says Timothy Wall, a co-founder and chief financial
officer.

Jones, the ThinkShed founder, has become an advocate of life without venture
capital. The company, which expects to break even in July, is in the process of
raising $250,000 from angel investors. When it needs more cash, it hopes to get
it from investments by customers.

"We will do everything in our power not to go to venture capitalists," he says.
"There are people who have believed in this for a long time, and have sweat,
blood and tears in it. We owe it to them not to dilute them."

Even those in the venture business agree companies can create strong, viable
businesses without their help.

"The world's obsessed with raising venture money, but that's not always the best
way to build a company," says Rob Adams, managing director of AV Labs, which
invests in early-stage companies. "In the go-go days it was easier to raise
money than to get customers, so everybody raised money. The savvy entrepreneurs
have learned that long-term survival depends on getting customers, not venture
capital."

lhawkins@statesman.com; 912-5955 (Colloq.)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: (esp. oneself) to succeed without the help of others
Joe Senner, left, and Timothy Wall are using a 150-square-foot office at the
Austin Technology Incubator and forgoing salaries while trying to get their
company, BuildForge Inc., off the ground // When he couldn't raise any venture
capital, Keith Jones sold his BMW and began to build his company himself. His
living room was the company's first headquarters, and he persuaded three
programmers to develop the first version of the software for free by promising
them stock options. // boot-strapping: to cause

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               28 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 6, 2002, Saturday

Bush looks beyond Arafat
President welcomes Blair to ranch for talks on Mideast, terrorism

BYLINE: Bob Deans, Washington Bureau

SECTION: News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 859 words


CRAWFORD -- President Bush showed patience with Israel's continuing military
offensive Friday while he further pressured Yasser Arafat, saying Middle East
peace can be reached without the Palestinian leader.

Bush said part of Secretary of State Colin Powell's diplomatic mission to the
region next week would be to begin reaching out to alternatives to Arafat's
leadership.

As he opened a three-day summit Friday with British Prime Minister Tony Blair,
Bush also said Iraqi President Saddam Hussein "needs to go," and he reiterated
his aim to build a coalition to topple the dictator.

The Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the U.S.-led war on terrorism will dominate
the leaders' weekend talks.

Blair arrived at Bush's Prairie Chapel Ranch after a flight from Britain, where
his nation continues to mourn the death of the Queen Mother. Blair wore a dark
suit and tie when he stepped off a Marine helicopter at the ranch. Bush, wearing
blue jeans and work boots, drove Blair from the scene in a white pickup.

Bush smiled at reporters but declined to answer questions.

Reflecting the strong U.S.-British relationship he has fostered, Bush invited
Blair to join him for a top-secret CIA briefing today, during which talk is
certain to revolve around the Mideast.

"My worry is that Yasser Arafat can't perform. He's been given plenty of
opportunities," Bush said in an interview aired Friday by the ITV British
television network.

"He has let his people down. And there are others in the region who can lead,"
Bush said, naming Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, President Hosni Mubarak
of Egypt and King Abdullah II of Jordan.

Arafat has been the leader of the Palestinian movement since the 1960s and was
elected Palestinian Authority president in 1994, after Palestinians received
limited autonomy in the West Bank and Gaza Strip under peace accords with
Israel.

A day after Bush asked Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to halt operations in
the West Bank and to begin withdrawing Israeli tanks and troops, the offensive
continued unabated.

Powell, who leaves Sunday night on a peace-making mission to Europe and the
Middle East, said the administration expects the Israeli campaign to end soon.

"The president's expectation is that the incursions will stop and the withdrawal
process will begin as soon as possible," Powell told reporters at the State
Department in Washington. "We will see what happens in the days ahead."

Israel launched its latest offensive -- described by Sharon as a mission to root
out the network supporting suicide bombers and gunmen -- last week following a
Passover attack by a suicide bomber that killed more than 20 Israelis. Since
then, Arafat has been penned in his compound in the West Bank city of Ramallah.

Powell said Friday he had no plans to meet with Arafat during his Mideast tour
next week, though he said that could change.

"Obviously we can get to Chairman Arafat," Powell said, using Arafat's title as
head of the Palestine Liberation Organization. "There are no plans (to meet) at
this time -- not that there won't be plans in due course."

Bush condemned Arafat in a White House speech Thursday, saying the Arab leader
had reneged on repeated vows to crack down on Palestinian suicide bombers and
gunmen and that, in doing so, Arafat had "betrayed" the trust and the hopes of
the Palestinian people.

Powell said part of his mission would involve reaching out to other influential
Palestinians.

"I plan to meet with as many leaders as I can in the region, reflecting all and
representing all the points of view and the parties in the region," Powell said.

On the subject of Iraq, Bush told British TV, "I have no immediate plans to
conduct military operations." But Bush said he and Blair were "going to discuss
all options."

"I made up my mind that Saddam needs to go," Bush added. "That's about all I'm
willing to share with you."

Blair's visit to the Bush ranch was scheduled before Middle East violence flared
to its deadliest levels in 18 months of fighting. The summit had been expected
to focus on the U.S.-led war on terror and prospects for NATO expansion later
this year.

Bush's weekend talks with Blair punctuate the growing diplomatic relationship
between the leaders.

Just weeks after taking office last year, Bush met with Blair at the Camp David
presidential retreat.

Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, Blair has emerged as
the most vocal overseas backer of Bush's anti-terror campaign, despite early
policy differences over issues including global climate change and ballistic
missile defense.

The prime minister was having dinner Friday night at the ranch with the
president and his wife, Laura. Blair's wife, Cherie, joins him today.

Also today, a Washington-based Arab American policy group was planning a peace
rally in Crawford to express support for Palestinian and Iraqi citizens. The
Arab American Institute listed more than a dozen Texas groups as sponsors of the
rally, to be held at the Crawford Community Center.

bobdeans@coxnews.com

This article contains material from wire services.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: British Prime Minister Tony Blair, left, and President Bush get into
Bush's pickup after Blair arrives at the Bush ranch near Crawford on Friday.
Bush and Blair began three days of talks focusing on the rise of violence in the
Middle East. The war on terrorism is also on the agenda.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               29 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 5, 2002, Sunday
                              Correction Appended

High-tech slump has scorched some high-end eateries

BYLINE: Shonda Novak, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Business; Pg. J7

LENGTH: 707 words


It's 8 p.m. on a Wednesday, and the reservation book at Girasole Fine Italian
Dining has one entry. Like many high-end eateries, the Italian restaurant in
Austin's Warehouse District has seen better days.

Riding the high-tech wave that brought many high-paid workers to the region,
restaurateurs flocked to downtown. But when the wave crashed, Austin was
littered with dot-com corpses and laid-off workers. High-profile eating places
also felt the impact. Two have closed in recent months and others are reportedly
teetering on the brink.

Conley Giles is an example of why business is off at upscale restaurants.

Giles, once chief executive at a startup, used to eat out four nights a week,
regularly noshing on lobster and prime rib at Trulucks Seafood and butter-cooked
filet at Ruth's Chris Steakhouse.

"I was riding that wave and eating well," he said.

Now, with a new startup he's financing largely with his own money, Giles eats
out about twice a month, on pizza or burgers.

Eating out is big business in Central Texas. Restaurants and bars, which employ
35,000 people in the region, are expected to generate more than $2.3 billion in
sales this year, according to the Texas Restaurant Association.

That would pump $238 million in sales taxes into state and local coffers. By one
estimate, people in the Austin area spend about $2,000 a person dining out each
year -- the most among all Texas cities.

Restaurants are a good barometer of the economy. With money in their pockets,
people eat out more. But when things turn bad, restaurants see regular customers
less often and smaller sales per table.

Higher-end restaurants suffer the most when the economy slumps. Sales at many in
Austin were down between 30 and 40 percent from 2000, said Rob Balon, chief
executive officer of the Benchmark Co., an Austin market research firm that
recently surveyed area restaurants.

Bar sales are one way to judge how a high-end restaurant is doing.

For January 2000, liquor sales at Mezzaluna topped $106,000. In January 2002,
they were $62,434, down 41 percent. Ruth's Chris Steak House saw a nearly 50
percent decline during the same period.

At Girasole, liquor sales plunged by half from June to July last year, and never
rebounded to previous highs the rest of the year.

Owners Al Fini and Sherry Zare made changes to keep Girasole afloat. They
altered their menu, removing a $28 filet mignon with white truffles and
replacing it with a $20 salmon with truffle oil, and laying off their master
chef.

Balon is forecasting a modest recovery in Central Texas' restaurant business
this year, with sales edging up about 2 percent to 3 percent.

At Trulucks, where guests spend an average of $30 to $35 per person, business is
up about 8.5 percent so far this year, although most of that is due to the
restaurant starting to open for lunch last summer.

"There may not be any big swing this year, but by 2003 and 2004, downtown Austin
is going to have a lot of good growth and activity," said David Tripoli, the
operating partner.

Although Roy's and Fleming's Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar on East Second Street
opened to smaller-than-expected crowds last year, their owners are optimistic
about long-term prospects. They're in the shadow of the Austin Convention
Center, where an expansion already is attracting bigger conventions. Two hotels
are being built nearby.

At Fleming's, operating partner Todd Froehle said the eatery opened in a
"worst-case scenario" climate: midsummer, with the legislative session over and
the economy down. Still, he says the restaurant, part of a nationwide chain, is
in for the long haul and business had been picking up.

At Roy's, a Hawaiian fusion restaurant, managing partner Patrick Mahon said
business has been steady this year. The kitchen staff is back to working five
days a week after being cut to three or four. Saturday night reservations are up
to an average of 200 compared with about 75 in December.

"I like to think things are on the rebound," said Mahon, who acknowledged Roy's
lowered its original sales projections in the tougher climate. "I don't see 2002
as a breakout year. I just think it's going to be steady."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2002, Wednesday

CORRECTION: An article on Page J7 of Sunday's Business section about the
economic slowdown's effect on high-end restaurants was incorrect in stating that
Girasole Fine Italian Dining showed only one reservation on a recent weekday
night.  The restaurant reports there were more than one.  The article also erred
in saying that the master chef had been laid off for economic reasons and that a
dish had been removed from the menu.

GRAPHIC: Travis Land, left, Megan Field, Clint Burrus, Katie Kirkendall and Joe
Alexander celebrate Burrus' birthday at Trulucks, where business is actually up
this year, mostly because it is now open for lunch.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               30 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 5, 2002, Sunday

Europe's rising right
Crime, immigration have changed political climate

BYLINE: Don Melvin, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: Insight; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1433 words


LONDON -- If the polls are correct, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the far-right French
presidential candidate, will be defeated today in a landslide of epic
proportions.

Pre-election surveys have predicted that Le Pen, who has been derided by
mainstream European leaders as a racist, could lose to incumbent Jacques Chirac
by a margin as wide as four to one.

But the dimensions of that landslide will do little to obscure a significant
change taking place in European politics. In France, Italy, Austria, Portugal,
Norway and the Netherlands, political parties long dismissed as fascist and
insignificant are gaining strength.

Political analysts say the growth of Europe's hard right is rooted in the
changing concerns of the continent's population. Waves of immigration, spurred
by the failure of globalization to reach all parts of the world, have prompted
many Europeans to wonder what their countries will look like in the future. The
advent of the single currency, the euro, for 12 European countries makes some
wonder whether their countries are losing a portion of their identity and even
their sovereignty.

Crime has become a critical issue. So has national security -- a concern
heightened by last year's terrorist attacks in the United States.

These are questions the European left has not even attempted to address, says
Franco Pavoncello, a political scientist and dean at John Cabot University in
Rome.

For the most part, post-World War II Europe has been ruled by left-leaning
leaders who favor social welfare, strong central governments and a steady shift
to a collective economic and political system based in Brussels -- the 15-member
European Union. But the old models have not kept pace with new realities,
political analysts say.

"We have left the politics of the 20th century," Pavoncello said. It's a
development, he adds, that the left wing has somehow failed to notice.

"The right, however tentatively, is trying to grapple with these problems,"
Pavoncello said. "The left would much rather deal with other issues."

The success of the far right owes as much to the mistakes of others as it does
to its own efforts, agreed Christopher Brown, a professor of international
relations at the London School of Economics.

In the first round of presidential voting in France two weeks ago, Le Pen, 73,
won a shocking second-place finish, edging out the socialist prime minister,
Lionel Jospin, to challenge the incumbent Chirac, 69, in today's runoff. Jospin
and Chirac ran lackluster campaigns, while Le Pen espoused his anti-crime
rhetoric and criticized the establishment for failing to note the concerns of
everyday people.

Le Pen's share of the vote -- 16.9 percent -- increased only marginally from
what it was in the previous presidential election, Brown noted. Had the French
left-wing vote not splintered, Le Pen would have again been dismissed as part of
an irrelevant fringe.

But that is not what happened.

"The European political class has lost contact with the people, to quite a large
extent," Brown said. "It really has lost touch with the concerns of ordinary
people."

Chief among those concerns are crime and immigration. There are now 5.5 million
refugees in Europe, according to the office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees. By contrast, the number in North America is 1
million.

The hard right in Europe takes a hard stance against immigration, advocating, in
some cases, shipping immigrants back to their countries of origin in Asia,
Africa, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Critics accuse the extreme right of
using immigrants as scapegoats and fomenting ethnic intolerance.

According to a poll published by the French newspaper Le Figaro, 74 percent of
Le Pen voters said crime was the issue most important to them. Sixty percent
cited immigration as a critical issue, as well.

While Le Pen is expected to lose handily to Chirac, his appeal to certain voters
is a sign that his National Front party could do well in parliamentary elections
scheduled in June.

Following his success, mainstream European leaders heaped scorn on Le Pen, who
was once fined by a French tribunal for dismissing the Holocaust as a mere
"detail in the history of the Second World War." British Prime Minister Tony
Blair called him "repellent" and a racist.

Many French voters agreed, taking to the streets in tears and near panic to urge
Le Pen's defeat.

News coverage of Le Pen's success assumed a tone of shock generally reserved for
devastating earthquakes, and showed just how stunned the European mainstream
was. But his victory was not the first indication of the increasing influence of
the far right in Europe. And it is unlikely to be the last.

* In Italy, right-wing media mogul Silvio Berlusconi, who is allied with a party
labeled "racist and xenophobic" by the Council of Europe, took power last June.
Concerns about immigration are particularly acute in Italy, which has a low
birth rate and -- absent immigration -- a declining population.

* In Norway, an administration allied with the far-right Progress Party took
power last October. The Progress Party wants to cap immigration at 1,000 people
per year. "The thing I find worrying," Brown said, "is the shift in the
Scandinavian countries, where there has been a tradition of vegetarian-style
liberal democracy, if I might put it that way."

* In Denmark, a conservative coalition that includes the far-right Danish
People's Party took office last November. It has drafted tough new asylum
policies and cut the country's traditionally generous aid to the Third World.

* In Portugal, a right-wing coalition that includes the strongly
anti-immigration Popular Party won power last month.

* In Spain, Jose Maria Aznar won a second term in March 2000, heavily defeating
his socialist opposition and winning the first conservative majority since Spain
became a democracy in 1975.

* In Austria, the government came under intense international criticism when the
far-right Freedom Party, which won 26.9 percent of the parliamentary vote in
1999 elections, formed a coalition with the conservative People's Party. The
Freedom Party, which ran on a platform of halting the "over-foreignization" of
Austria, has long drawn fire for espousing anti-immigrant policies and
xenophobic views.

* In the Netherlands, which will hold elections May 15, a party led by strongly
anti-immigration candidate Pim Fortuyn is expected to win at least 20 of the
parliament's 150 seats. "That is unbelievable," said Dick Leurdijk of the
country's Clingendael Institute of International Relations.

* And in Germany, polls show left-wing Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder trailing
conservative Edmund Stoiber in a campaign that has focused on the economy and
immigration. The election will be held in September.

In all of these countries immigration has been a critical political concern.
According to the U.S. Committee for Refugees, asylum seekers submitted 38,747
applications in France in 2000, 16,000 applications in Italy, 18,284 in Austria
and 78,600 in Germany.

"The multicultural society is, in my eyes, absolutely the key issue," Leurdijk
said.

A secondary issue is the role a stronger European government such as the EU is
perceived to be playing in subsuming the national identities of different
countries. Le Pen, for example, strongly opposes what he calls "the
federalization of Europe."

Wary mainstream politicians, looking at the increasing strength of the right,
are likely to put the brakes on further European integration, Brown said.
Britain and Denmark seem less likely now to join in the use of the euro than
they did a few months ago.

The United Kingdom, too, has experienced a huge influx of immigrants. In 2000,
76,040 people filed asylum applications in the country. In April, a member of
Blair's cabinet, Home Secretary David Blunkett, drew criticism for saying that
immigrants were "swamping" some British schools.

Nevertheless, Britain's Labor Party under Blair may be showing the way to stem
the rise of the hard-right parties -- appropriate their issues. Blair has, for
example, taken a very tough line on crime.

Labor has historically been a left-of-center party but, Pavoncello said, it is
governing from the right -- and pushing the conservatives out of the picture.

One other factor, too, may limit the rise of the right -- the constant tendency
toward change.

"Do not forget that it was only four years ago," Leurdijk said, "that people
were writing about why in so many countries in Europe there were socialist
leaders."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jean-Marie Le Pen: Far-right French presidential candidate in runoff
today

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               31 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 14, 2002, Sunday

Nordstrom's plans add sparkle to Austin eyes
A good fit for mall; Barton Creek Square eager for new tenant

BYLINE: Michelle Breyer, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 2327 words


SEATTLE, Wash. -- The opening of Nordstrom Inc.'s first Austin store is more
than a year away, but its presence already is being felt.

Upscale stores are signing leases in the new wing of Barton Creek Square mall to
be near the esteemed retailer. Most department stores in the mall are planning
improvements. Nordstrom buyers and merchandise managers have been traveling to
the area to scout out the competition and get a feel for local tastes.

Why all the fuss over a new store?

While so-called big box retailers such as Target and discounter Kohl's have been
expanding aggressively in Central Texas, the region hasn't had a new department
store since Saks Fifth Avenue opened its small store in the Arboretum Market
five years ago.

A challenging retail climate has caused major chains to regroup, making it
harder for malls to attract anchor stores. And for any developer, getting
Nordstrom is a coup.

Simon Property Group, which owns Barton Creek Square, beat out other mall
developers who were courting Nordstrom to come to Central Texas.

"It was good for us because we got them in our mall and didn't have to worry
about another mall opening because of Nordstrom's interest," said Michael
McCarty, senior vice president of research and corporate communications for
Simon, which has Nordstrom stores in 15 of its other 187 regional malls.
"They're still viewed as one of the premier anchors by any developer."

The arrival of Nordstrom also means good news for Barton Creek's other stores.

When Nordstrom opened in the Dallas Galleria six years ago, sales mallwide
jumped 20 percent, said Peggy Weaver, general manager of the Galleria, the first
mall in the Southwest to get a Nordstrom.

"It's been an advantage to every single merchant in the entire center," she
said. "We found that our draw got broader and that people stayed longer because
of Nordstrom."

Despite a drooping economy that has hammered retailers -- and Nordstrom is no
exception -- the Seattle-based retailer is on schedule with plans to open its
144,000-square-foot Austin store on Aug. 15, 2003.

Mounds of dirt are piled on the site where Montgomery Ward once sold tires and
washing machines. The Nordstrom wing will include a two-story store and 40,000
square feet of additional space for other retailers.

"There will be significant changes in the tenant mix within the Nordstrom wing,"
McCarty said, although he declined to name any new stores. "This allows us to
attract retailers who follow Nordstrom who might not otherwise be interested in
Austin or Barton Creek."

Nordstrom already has a following in Central Texas, where there are plenty of
West Coast transplants who are used to its highly rated customer service, its
legendary sales and its trademark shoe department, with sizes for every foot and
styles for every taste.

There are more than 5,000 Nordstrom credit card holders within a 50-mile radius
of Barton Creek Square.

But Nordstrom executives say they'll have to earn a place in this market.

"We're not so arrogant to imply we have things that others don't have," said
Peter Nordstrom, executive vice president of the company and president of its
full-line stores. "People aren't going to give us the business."

Peter Nordstrom's office, in the retailer's flagship downtown Seattle store, is
cluttered and casual. A large map on the wall is dotted with the locations of
current and future stores. After Houston and Austin next year, a San Antonio
store will open in 2004.

Nordstrom, who stands 6 feet 7 inches tall, made his first trip to Texas as a
youth to play in a basketball tournament near Lubbock. He first visited Austin
two years ago, as the retailer was expanding into Texas and the Southeast.

Central Texas "fits our profile of a successful market," he said, referring to
the area's growth and its affluent demographics.

Initially, executives looked at a site near the Arboretum. But they opted for
the mall when Montgomery Ward went into bankruptcy and its Barton Creek site
became available.

"We'd rather go to a place where the shoppers already go rather than train them
to go someplace else," Nordstrom said. "It was the right time, the right place."

Nordstrom doesn't believe in cookie-cutter stores. The clothes for sale in
casual Austin won't be exactly the same as what Nordstrom offers in more formal
Chicago.

To better serve customers in its new markets, the company is creating a new
operating division to handle its stores in Georgia, Texas and Florida. A
regional buying staff, based in Coral Gables, Fla., will tailor apparel
offerings to match local climates and tastes.

"You have to evolve to the personality of the neighborhood you're in," Nordstrom
said. "Some things work. Some don't."

Service at any price

Although less than half the size of the 330,000-square-foot flagship store in
downtown Seattle, the Austin Nordstrom will have most of the same departments,
including the Personal Touch personal shopping service, and many of the extras,
including a coffee bar and a cafe.

And a musician will play tunes on a baby grand piano -- a feature that has
become a Nordstrom trademark.

The store will stock such designer lines as Ralph Lauren and Donna Karan. But it
also will sell $8 hair clips, $4 socks and $16 T-shirts. The customer shopping
for a $7,000 alligator print Chanel handbag might be riding up the escalator
with a customer shopping for a $34 oxford shirt.

"If we do our job right, we cover a wide range of customers," Nordstrom said.
"Everyone wants to be treated well, whether they're spending $12 or $1,000."

Executives at Dillard's and Foley's aren't commenting on how they will respond
to the arrival of a formidable new competitor, although Simon officials say
enhancements are in the works at other mall stores.

Nordstrom's arrival will raise the bar for other retailers. Its reputation for
impeccable customer service and services such as concierge desks, where
customers can make dinner reservations or arrange delivery of their purchases,
has led other retailers to improve their service.

Sales associates, who call themselves Nordies, hand out cream-and-navy business
cards and keep track of their customers' names, sizes and preferences. They are
encouraged to regularly contact their customers about sales and specials.

In the Collectors department, which features some of the top European and
American designers, plush private dressing rooms are set up before the customer
arrives with wardrobe options.

In some departments, top salespeople can make $100,000 to $200,000 a year.

"And they should," said Peter Nordstrom, who said he was outearned by four sales
associates while managing a store in Tacoma, Wash. "We want to encourage
productivity. It only helps me and everyone else."

At Nordstrom, the departments are based on lifestyle, with names such as Point
of View, Savvy and Individualist.

Brass Plum is aimed at young women, with trendier clothes and special lighting,
the latest music and and screens showing fashion videos. Nordstrom said some
older customers have complained that the music is too loud.

"We tell them to go elsewhere (to other departments)," Nordstrom said. "These
girls don't want to shop in their mom's department. We don't want their mom to
feel comfortable" in theirs.

In the children's department, large aquariums filled with colorful fish are
designed to keep tots occupied while their parents shop. The aisles are wide to
make it easy to maneuver with a stroller.

In cosmetics, specially lit mirrors allow customers to test makeup in day,
office and evening light. Rather than large counters, the department has an open
layout that lets customers serve themselves if they want.

And then there are the shoes, in sizes from 4 to 14 and widths from AAAA to WW.

The shoe department exemplifies the company's philosophy toward retailing,
Nordstrom said.

The downtown Seattle store stocks 120,000 pairs of men's, women's and children's
shoes, from Nike to Prada.

"The main hook we have is selection," he said. "It started in shoes and spread
to other areas."

In the shoe department, a floor watcher greets customers and matches them with a
sales associate. The sales associate may bring out 30 boxes before the customer
finds the perfect pair.

"You get on your hands and knees to please that customer," said Nordstrom, who
has worked in the shoe department himself. "It's hard work."

A shoe platform

Shoes are the foundation on which the company was built.

In 1887, a 16-year-old John Nordstrom left Sweden for the United States,
arriving in New York with $5 in his pocket. In 1897, after laboring in mines and
logging camps, he settled in Seattle, teaming up with shoemaker Carl Wallin.
They opened their first store, Wallin & Nordstrom, in 1901.

The business grew, with the next generation of Nordstroms taking over. At one
time, it was the largest independent shoe chain in the nation, with locations in
Oregon, Washington and California.

The company expanded into clothing in the 1960s. The new enterprise was named
Nordstrom Best. By this time, the third generation of Nordstroms was running the
company.

In 1971, Nordstrom went public; sales passed the $100 million mark by 1973, when
the company also changed its name to Nordstrom Inc.

Since then, Nordstrom has grown to 136 stores in 26 states.

But the growth has not been without rough spots. Even before the recent
recession, analysts say Nordstrom was faltering. The chain has struggled with
merchandising issues, inconsistent sales and an antiquated inventory management
system.

"Their performance has been a bit of a roller coaster," said Walter Levy,
managing director of retail trends for Kurt Salmon and Associates.

Nordstrom.com, the online and catalog division, also has struggled, making its
first profit in the fourth quarter. During the dot-com frenzy, the company had
hopes of spinning off the subsidiary. Nordstrom recently paid more than $70
million to buy back a minority stake.

In August 2000, in a major management shakeup, the founding family resumed
control.

Blake Nordstrom, Peter's older brother, took over as president. His younger
brother, Erik, is executive vice president of full-line stores. Their father,
Bruce Nordstrom, returned as chairman.

Their focus has been to boost sales, cut costs and get better control over
inventory.

"Within our organization, there is a higher level of understanding and
appreciation for the importance of carefully evaluating how every dollar is
spent," Blake Nordstrom said during the first-quarter-earnings conference call
in May.

Not just for the rich

The company has altered its merchandise mix in an effort to win back customers
who have gone elsewhere. Another goal has been to soften the image of Nordstrom
as a retailer for the rich by widening the price range of its merchandise.

"They certainly want to be able to service that customer that wants the
higher-end merchandise," said Karen Sack, retailing analyst with Standard &
Poor's. "But they're not as expensive as you would think."

The company has scaled back growth plans and pushed back the opening of several
stores.

Nordstrom expects its store square footage to grow by 3 percent to 4 percent
next year, rather than the 7 percent to 8 percent growth that had been typical.
It laid off 2,500 people last year, although few of the reductions have come on
the sales floor.

Nordstrom also has turned to technology to help improve its performance and get
a better handle on its inventory.

During the past few months, the company has shifted to a new perpetual inventory
system -- a computerized system adopted by many of its competitors years ago.
With the new system, which now is in all stores, sales associates can quickly
find items at other stores.

"Previously, the salesperson had to manually call other stores in the area to
find a particular item," said Dan Geiman, a retail analyst for McAdams Wright
Ragen. "With the perpetual system, they can see right there on their screen
where that merchandise is located. It will make the sales people more efficient.
And they'll have a better feel for what customers are buying in what stores."

The company's strategies appear to be paying off. In May and June, Nordstrom
reported increases in comparable store sales -- the first two-month period of
positive comparable sales since the beginning of last year. Comparable store
sales are considered a key retail barometer.

The company's stock, which had fallen to a 52-week low of $13.80 on Sept. 27,
closed Friday at $19.78.

"They've put everything under the microscope," said Jennifer Black, a retail
analyst with Wells Fargo Securities in Portland, Ore. "We believe the company is
in a major turnaround mode."

mbreyer@statesman.com; 445-3641.

(from box)

Nordstrom Inc.: From shoe storeto retail star

History: Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle. Expanded to apparel in the
1960s.

Stores: 83 full department stores; 47 Nordstrom Rack off-price stores; one
freestanding shoe store; four Facconable boutiques, one Last Chance clearance
store.

Family ties: A management shakeup two years ago ousted CEO John Whitacre, who
had been the first nonfamily top executive in the company's history. Nordstrom
family members now hold several top executive positions. Chairman Bruce
Nordstrom is grandson of founder John W. Nordstrom; his son Blake is president,
and other son Peter is president of full-line stores.

Employees: 40,800

Financials: In the most recent quarter, sales rose 2 percent to $1.5 billion,
but the company lost $11.2 million because it bought back a minority share in
its online unit.

The company has a market capitalization of $3 billion. The stock trades on the
New York exchange under the symbol JWN. 52-week range: $13.80-$26.87.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shoppers at the flagship Nordstrom department store in downtown Seattle
pause for a free makeup application. Nordstrom prides itself on customer
service. // Peter Nordstrom, president of the 83 Nordstrom full-line stores,
says the retailer will have to earn a place in the Austin market. The Barton
Creek Square store will be smaller than this Seattle flagship but will have many
of the same departments. // Fenced-in mounds of dirt are all that remain of the
former Montgomery Ward store at Barton Creek Square mall. Mall owner Simon
Property Group is building a two-story, 144,000-square-foot store for esteemed
retailer Nordstrom Inc. plus 40,000 square feet for retailers that want to
locate nearby.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               32 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 18, 2002, Thursday

Congress must punish corporate fraud

BYLINE: American-Statesman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 450 words


Whether the government is doing too much or too little to police corporations is
a matter of intense debate, from the nation's Capitol to company boardrooms.

Despite the bleatings of some Republican House members this week, there is no
question that Congress has not done enough to protect consumers and investors.
The evidence is obvious, from the falling stock market and flagging consumer
confidence to blunt statements from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan that
too many corporate executives succumbed to greed instead of looking out for
shareholders.

The House and Senate have passed separate bills cracking down on corporate
fraud, and a conference committee is meeting to fashion compromise legislation.
But some GOP members of the House are complaining that the bills go too far and
could harm businesses.

There is little chance of that. Both the House and Senate bills make corporate
executives responsible for the accuracy of their financial information and
include prison time for those who knowingly disseminate false information. They
also create a body to oversee the accounting industry, which has assisted
corporations involved in fraud.

Not only are those provisions not Draconian, they are necessary and overdue. It
is hardly asking too much to demand that corporations act honestly and give
accurate information to consumers, investors and Wall Street analysts. The GOP
representatives trying to block these changes couldn't be more wrong.

They also are playing a dangerous game. Americans are deeply invested in the
corporate structure, and the infection of greed, lies and fraud has wrecked
investor confidence. Words have failed to restore faith in the system --
speeches by President Bush and Greenspan proved that much. Strong action by
Congress is absolutely necessary at this point.

There is more to be done than is evident in either bill now being debated.
Congress has defeated efforts to treat stock options honestly by requiring that
they be counted as expenses. Coca-Cola has done better though, announcing it
will begin listing options as employee compensation in the fourth quarter. That
may spur other corporations to do the same.

Americans are looking for justice for what Greenspan called the "infectious
greed" of executives and their accountants. They want an honest, transparent
financial view of the companies they've invested in. And they want severe
penalties for fraud, insider trading and wrongdoing.

Investment is the beating heart of American capitalism. The worry is that
Congress might do too little to stabilize the corporate system and protect
shareholders -- and the business climate of the country -- not too much.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               35 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 10, 2002, Sunday

U.S. ally Malaysia feels pressure of opposition
Islamic party's rising popularity challenges nation's ruler, who has backed war
on terror

BYLINE: Julie Chao, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1155 words


KUALA TERENGGANU, Malaysia -- The head of Malaysia's opposition Islamic party,
Abdul Hadi Awang, wants to see people stoned to death for committing adultery
and their hands amputated for stealing -- points the government-controlled media
emphasize.

This Southeast Asian nation with a majority Muslim population has long been
known as a moderate, multiracial society with an investor-friendly business
climate.

But Hadi's Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, or PAS, which hopes to establish an
Islamic state, has growing support and has emerged as the greatest challenge to
the power of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, Asia's longest-serving ruler.

Because of PAS' popularity, Mahathir, who has emphasized rapid modernization in
his 21-year rule, has been forced to respond by burnishing his own religious
standing. The result, many observers say, is a competition between the two sides
with each trying to prove itself more "Islamic" than the other.

A U.S.-led war against Iraq, they say, will make it harder for the moderates to
hold their ground in this country of 23 million, where Muslim Malays make up 58
percent of the population and ethnic Chinese and Indians make up the rest.

"If they decide to go to war in Iraq, it will be more difficult for the middle
path to hold their own," said Chandra Muzaffar, a political scientist who runs a
think tank called International Movement for a Just World.

Mahathir was one of the first Muslim leaders to support the U.S.-led war against
terrorism. Police have arrested more than 70 suspected Islamic militants, and
Malaysia agreed last month to be the host of a U.S.-proposed regional
counter-terrorism training center.

But Mahathir can't afford to appear a U.S. lackey. He has criticized the United
States for failing to address the root causes of terrorism, and on Thursday said
the Republican victory in the midterm elections, coupled with the rise of
Islamic parties in several countries, would increase the risk of confrontation
between Islam and the West.

Islam was introduced to Southeast Asia by Arab traders in the 13th and 14th
centuries. Although Indonesia and Malaysia have majority Muslim populations,
their diversity -- including Hindus, Buddhists and Christians -- has resulted in
a tolerant and pragmatic Islam. Political leaders have emphasized national unity
over religion.

But PAS' more conservative approach to religion is attractive to many as an
Islamic revival spreads from rural areas into the cities. Beyond its religious
appeal, its call for a clean government run according to strict morals is a
welcome message for those fed up with alleged corruption and cronyism under
Mahathir.

PAS holds power in two of Malaysia's 13 states: underdeveloped Kelantan and
oil-rich Terengganu.

Washington's war against terrorism, perceived by some Muslims as a war on Islam,
has helped PAS, too.

"If the United States is harsh towards Iraq or Palestine, it will benefit us,"
said Kamarudin Jaffar, a PAS Parliament member. "People will see us as the
savior of oppressed people in Malaysia."

Since taking over Terengganu three years ago, PAS has tried to outlaw bikinis,
require separate check-out lines for men and women at supermarkets and ban
mingling of the sexes at live concerts. The state has been unable to enforce
these measures consistently, partly because some agencies, such as the police,
are federal.

But the message is clear.

"We have no freedom to wear what we like," said 18-year-old Shaylyn Siehweewoon,
an ethnic Chinese in Kuala Terengganu, the state's sleepy capital.

In July, the state assembly passed an Islamic criminal code, which includes
stoning and amputation as punishments for certain crimes. PAS says those
sanctions are meant more as deterrents and are unlikely to ever be carried out.
The law's passage is merely symbolic anyway, because implementation would
require a change to Malaysia's Constitution.

Yet it is part of Hadi's vision to run all aspects of government according to
Islamic principles.

"We want to introduce Islam as a way of life," he said at his modest house in
Rusila village, a few miles outside Kuala Terengganu.

Hadi, president of PAS as well as Terengganu's chief minister, studied in Saudi
Arabia and Egypt before returning to Malaysia in the mid-1970s.

Asked why non-Muslim Malaysians would want to live in an Islamic state, Hadi
said: "If they can accept a system that comes from the West, . . . why can't
they give a chance to Islam to rule the country?" he said. "Islam brings justice
to Muslims and non-Muslims alike."

Steven Gan, editor of Malaysiakini.com, the country's only independent news
outlet, says that despite some of its extreme positions, PAS isn't a militant
organization.

"They are committed to the democratic role and are seeking change through the
ballot box," Gan said. "It's important we don't push PAS into a corner so they
have no other choice than to use extra-parliamentary means to achieve their
goals. To combat terrorism, you need to democratize Muslim countries."

But Mahathir's strategy has been to isolate rather than engage. He has
restricted the party's newspaper, reducing publication from twice-weekly to
twice-monthly. He diverted Terengganu's royalty payments from the state-owned
oil company, causing a 70 percent drop in the state's budget.

Yet Mahathir hasn't been able to ignore PAS' criticism that he and his ruling
party are unIslamic, so last year he declared that Malaysia is already an
Islamic state. That alarmed Malaysia's non-Muslims.

The opposition Democratic Action Party, led by ethnic Chinese, launched a "No to
929" campaign, a reference to the Sept. 29 date when Mahathir made the comment.
But the statement did have its intended effect on PAS.

"PAS has to become more fundamentalist, more Islamic, to secure their seats,"
said S. Arutchelvan, an organizer with Suaram, a human rights group.

In fact, Islam is Malaysia's official religion under the constitution, which
also guarantees freedom of religion.

The heightened social pressure to appear Islamic has resulted in stricter
enforcement of religious matters. Perhaps the best barometer of religious fervor
in Malaysia is women's fashion. Twenty years ago, few women wore a head scarf.
But the Islamic revival has changed that. Now, not only is the head scarf the
norm, so is the loose fitting tunic and long skirt favored by conservatives.

At the Astaka shopping center, Aida Ghazali is about the only female clerk
without a head scarf, which PAS had made mandatory for store workers.

"I'm not interested in it," said Ghazali, 23. "It's not required by Islam. It's
up to the individual."

She says she practices other aspects of Islam but doesn't like what PAS has done
politically and economically.

"The state is going more and more backwards," she said. "There's no development.
PAS focuses only on religion."

juliec@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A booth at a Kuala Lumpur political rally for the Pan-Malaysian Islamic
Party offers tapes and videodiscs of the opposition party's speakers.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               38 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 5, 2002, Saturday

So long as he's winning, Brown will be phone call away from NFL

BYLINE: Kirk Bohls

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 668 words


The Minnesota Vikings job was Mack Brown's if he wanted it.

He did not.

Brown didn't say that, and Vikings owner Red McCombs didn't say that, either,
but you can take it to the bank and deposit it right next to the $150,000 bonus
the Texas coach earned on Friday. And save room in the vault for the big raise
he's about to get.

The Longhorns coach and McCombs -- a San Antonio businessman who is one of the
University of Texas' biggest benefactors -- are connected at the hip. And at the
cell phone. They speak at least once a week.

Brown made McCombs an honorary captain for a Texas home game. McCombs wrote the
preface for Brown's new book, "One Heartbeat."

The Vikings' job was never offered and never turned down, but the opportunity
was there.

And here's the thing: It always will be, as long as Brown has the Longhorns
hovering around the top five and winning 10 or 11 games a season.

Just because Brown is happy at Texas today doesn't mean he isn't going somewhere
else tomorrow, next week, next month or next year.

Notre Dame very unofficially put out feelers toward Brown in December to gauge
his interest, but he didn't bite. And when Florida State's Bobby Bowden retires
sometime this decade, it would come as no shock if the Seminoles came calling on
Brown, an FSU grad.

Maybe Brown won't leave. Hopefully, he'll stick at Texas and make people not
forget Darrell Royal, but at least mention them in the same breath.

If you wonder why Brown didn't issue a direct "I'm not interested " statement on
Friday, consider this: He did exactly that at North Carolina in 1997 when he
told the media he was happy at Chapel Hill and planned to be there a long time,
all of which was true at that time. Three days later, he accepted the Texas job.

Things change.

"I can honestly say when I said I was happy at North Carolina, I was," Brown
said Friday. "The next day, Texas called. It looked like I wasn't telling the
truth."

Texas fans had best get used to no-comments from Brown if other owners or
athletic directors come calling because he is stockpiling talent very few teams
can equal on a regular basis. The Longhorns were in the national championship
hunt this season and could be every year, thanks to Brown and his staff. With so
many job openings arising in this month every year, February's Coach could
easily transform into January's Coach even though he hates responding to all the
rumors and speculation.

As Brown said, "The less you say, the less you have to take back."

Brown's is a name that will crop up regularly after this 11-2 season that --
with Steve Spurrier's sudden resignation from Florida -- makes him the only
active NCAA Division I-A coach in America to have at least nine wins the past
six seasons.

Bowden dropped from the mix with an aberration of an 8-4 season. Kansas State's
Bill Snyder fell out of that exclusive company with a disappointing 6-6 year.
Spurrier's now an NFL wannabe.

Brown, too, has NFL aspirations, and a team with a nicer climate to offer might
soon come calling.

The Vikings, however, have problems with unmanageable ego Randy Moss, a lack of
a running game, an atrocious defense, stadium problems and a pending $100
million lawsuit in the aftermath of the death of Korey Stringer.

Otherwise, it's a perfect job.

Brown flirted with the Cleveland Browns three years ago, and there are more NFL
teams where they came from.

He is a much better fit in college where he can pick his players, talk about
them as "kids," and work in a landscape where academics should be as important
as athletics. In the NFL, he would find more demands, endless prima donnas, a
constricting salary cap and instability.

The Longhorns are close to being where they want to be for the first time in two
decades, and Brown is the reason. He has a burning desire for a national
championship, and something tells me he doesn't want to leave here until he wins
one.

You may contact Kirk Bohls at kbohls@statesman.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Since his arrival at Texas, football coach Mack Brown, left, has been
linked to NFL job openings with Cleveland and Minnesota.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               39 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 12, 2002, Saturday

In Lubbock, Democratic candidates skip sniping
Governor hopefuls put up with each other, focus on issues, incumbent

BYLINE: Ken Herman, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 744 words


LUBBOCK -- Democratic gubernatorial candidates Tony Sanchez and Dan Morales, who
spent most of the week engaged in increasingly hostile long-distance sniping at
each other, played nice Friday night at the first event the candidates attended
together.

The two were among several statewide candidates who showed up for a Lubbock
County Democratic Party fund-raising dinner.

They didn't share the stage, but they shook hands and greeted each other in
Spanish when they passed in a hallway. Immediately after the brief encounter,
Sanchez -- who will have a Spanish-language debate with Morales -- questioned
his rival's fluency in that language.

"I haven't said he can't speak Spanish," said Sanchez. "I don't think he can
speak good Spanish, but I just don't think that he is completely ignorant of the
language."

Neither candidate made any reference to the other during their remarks at the
dinner. But the tone could change Monday in Austin, when they are scheduled to
compete for the influential endorsement of the Texas AFL-CIO, whose president,
Joe Gunn, is a Sanchez backer.

Sanchez and Morales, as well as Houston lawyer John WorldPeace and Waxahachie
businessman Bill Lyon, are seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Gov.
Rick Perry in November. Lubbock County Chairwoman Irma Guerrero said all the
Democratic gubernatorial candidates were invited to Friday night's event,
although she was unable to contact Lyon.

Perry is unopposed for the GOP nomination in March.

Morales, who attacked Sanchez on Thursday as a wealthy man trying to buy a
government job, stuck to the issues Friday night.

"Friends, I believe that our state is great, but I believe our state can do so
much better," Morales said in a five-minute speech that touched quickly and
generally on education, law enforcement and health care.

"I'm proud to be a Texan. I will share with you that I'm not always proud of the
way Texas treats its most vulnerable and its weakest citizens," he said.

Sanchez also stuck to the issues and opted to go after the opponent he hopes to
have in November rather than the one he has now.

"Under the acting, current, accidental governor that we currently have, our
public schools are not getting any better," he said of Perry. "He has known
about this problem for 15 years, and he has not done anything about it.

"He has also known for a long time that our economy is heading in the wrong
direction, and he is not prepared, not willing to do anything about it," Sanchez
said. "He keeps burying his head in the sand."

Earlier Friday, the economy -- an issue that frequently bites incumbents -- was
on Perry's mind as his four-day announcement tour ended with a rally at Round
Rock's Dell Diamond. Perry announced that he will assemble a team of economists,
business leaders and "job-creation experts" to offer him advice.

"They will look at our business climate and state policies to find those ways to
improve our education system, capitalize on new economic frontiers like
biotechnology, and they will also discuss ways to revive the economic pillars
that have created jobs in this state for many decades," Perry said.

He also said he will ask state agencies to go easy on spending this year.

After the speech, the GOP incumbent opted not to comment on the Sanchez-Morales
battle. But Perry did take a shot at the first major policy initiative offered
by Sanchez, a plan to combine the Public Utility Commission and the Railroad
Commission into a single elected panel. Perry derided the idea as the work of
someone who hasn't been paying attention.

"There has never been the interest nor the stomach for that, if you will, in the
legislative process," he said. "And knowing how the process works, being
involved with it over the course of the last 16 or 17 years, I would suggest
that may be an idea that does not have very broad support in the state of
Texas."

Friday night, Sanchez told the Lubbock crowd that something must be done about
the appointed utility group because it has become "responsible to the companies
they are regulating." Democrats have called for Max Yzaguirre, Perry's appointee
as chairman of the commission, to resign because of his ties to struggling
energy company Enron and because he did not initially disclose all his links to
Enron.

"The coyote should not be taking care of the chickens," Sanchez said.

You may contact Ken Herman at kherman@statesman.com or (512) 445-1718.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               40 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 25, 2002, Monday

Chip industry has tough climate to endure, research analyst says

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Business; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 818 words


The semiconductor industry, which endured a devastating downturn in 2001, now
faces a slow, uneven recovery period, according to a leading research analyst.

Mark Edelstone of Morgan Stanley Research expects worldwide chip sales will
range from flat to down 5 percent in 2002 as the industry slowly picks itself
up. Worldwide chip sales plunged by $65 billion, or 32 percent, in 2001, as
three major markets -- personal computers, communications equipment and wireless
products -- all turned soft.

Edelstone will detail his outlook for the industry Tuesday at a technology
luncheon at the Austin Renaissance Hotel sponsored by PricewaterhouseCoopers and
the Fabless Semiconductor Association. The analyst, who is based in San
Francisco, has been recognized for outstanding research coverage by
Institutional Investor magazine and by First Call Corp., which cited him as its
most-read analyst in 1999 and 2001.

Edelstone shared a few thoughts last week on the chip industry.

American-Statesman: Where are we in the semiconductor market cycle right now?

Edelstone: I believe that we are in the final quarter of what has been a
three-quarter rounding bottom for the industry. The industry hit bottom in the
third quarter (of 2001). The fourth quarter and the first quarter (of 2002) are
relatively flat and I expect to see growth resuming in the second quarter and
accelerating in the second half of the year.

That's the good news. The bad news is that the hole that we have created for the
industry is pretty significant and it is going to take us quite awhile to dig
out of that hole to get back to an environment that would be considered healthy.

We just have far too much excess (manufacturing) capacity in the industry, and
as a result, it is going to cause pricing pressure to be greater than normal.
So, while we will start to recover in Q2 and start to accelerate in the second
half of the year, stronger prices for most parts of the industry probably won't
recover until the second half of 2003.

It is a tough environment. It's going to separate the great companies from the
average companies.

What will drive the recovery?

At the end of the day, what will drive the recovery is the economy and the
recovery in information technology spending and the recovery in communications
equipment spending and the recovery in consumer spending. Those will be the
things that drive it.

There are segments of the communications industry that are very, very
distressed. Optical technology would be an example or long-haul wireline
communications. In contrast to that, the wireless market is doing OK. It is
seasonally weak right now, but it is generally fundamentally healthy.

The enterprise communications market is now recovering largely because we have
worked off a lot of the inventory issues that existed last year.

The PC market actually looks pretty good. The second half of this year is going
to see a resurgence in demand for PCs. And in the digital consumer market there
are a lot of hot new products in digital consumer that are doing OK, and they
will do better as the economy strengthens in the second half of the year.

So the strong will survive?

The strong will do more than survive. They will actually get stronger. There is
a lot of relative performance that takes place here. There will be a separation
between the strong and the weak. We haven't seen anything like this since the
late 1980s.

Who are going to be some of the winners?

In Texas, I am positive on Texas Instruments. They've got the right stuff. And a
smaller local company, which I think is just incredibly well-positioned, is
Silicon Laboratories. They were hurt by the market environment last year. They
are in pretty full recovery mode right now. What is driving them right now is
wireless (products). (Silicon Laboratories designs and sells a variety of
mixed-signal chips for communications products.)

You seem to be pretty skeptical about Advanced Micro Devices.

I think they are going to recover. I just think they have got some challenges
ahead of them as (rival) Intel Corp. drives its product transition to Pentium 4.

The problem is that Athlon (the Austin-designed processor chip) is going to run
out of gas late this year and AMD will effectively be in the same position that
Intel was a year ago with the Pentium III chip, kind of maxed out on the
processor's performance and really nowhere to really compete except on price.
That is a tough, tough position to be in. What will potentially change that is
Hammer (the next-generation processor), but it is going to take awhile before
Hammer really impacts AMD as a company.

If they nail Hammer as well as they nailed Athlon, then AMD is going to be in
great shape for the foreseeable future. That is actually the challenge right
now. (AMD employs nearly 4,000 people in Austin.)

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mark Edelstone: Morgan Stanley analyst is optimistic about Texas
Instruments and Silicon Laboratories.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               41 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 2, 2002, Saturday

Oilman gives UT-Austin $150 million estate
Bequest from Dallas philanthropist is largest single gift to a U.S. public
university

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson, American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1653 words


An aging oilman who credits his fortune to the University of Texas is giving
UT-Austin the nation's largest single gift to a public university -- an estate
valued at $150 million.

UT-Austin President Larry Faulkner will announce today the bequest from Dallas
philanthropist and longtime UT benefactor John A. Jackson, a widower with no
children. He had planned to attend today's event, but UT officials said Friday
that Jackson, 88, is unable to make the trip.

The estate of Jackson and his late wife, estimated at $150 million by Jackson's
representatives, pushes the campus 2 1/2 years ahead of schedule in fund raising
and past the $1 billion goal set in 1997 when the seven-year "We're Texas"
campaign began. The latest total is $1.135 billion.

"It's a gift to Texas. These are his words," said Johnnie Ray, UT vice president
for resource development. "He's very, very adamant about the fact that his
intention at this point in his life is to leave something to the citizens of
Texas and to this place that has meant so much to him."

Jackson made millions in the oil business after receiving his UT degree in 1940.
But he nearly flunked out until Arno Nowotny, then-assistant dean of men at UT,
became his mentor at a time when the word wasn't trendy.

Jackson earned his degree in petroleum engineering and has continued his close
ties with the geology department and the Texas Exes alumni group. He has
supported both with donations totaling well over $40 million. This latest
contribution will be used solely for the John A. and Katherine G. Jackson School
of Geosciences at UT-Austin that was named last year with a $25 million
endowment from the couple.

That donation came just nine months after UT also named its geology building for
the Jacksons. They gave $15 million for a 60,000-square-foot building addition
and renovation. Katherine Jackson died last March at the age of 83, only weeks
before the groundbreaking.

Through the years, the couple donated more than $500,000 to the Texas Exes,
which has named rooms for each at the alumni center.

John Jackson, better known as "Jack," and Katherine, called "Katie," were
devoted to philanthropy during their 60-year marriage, leaving their name on
buildings at institutions across the state, including Presbyterian Healthcare
System of Dallas, Temple Junior College (where the couple met) and Texas
Lutheran College. The Katie Awards given by the Dallas Press Club are named for
Katie Jackson because the couple played a role in supporting the journalism
awards.

But the geosciences school, with a total of 320 graduate and undergraduate
students this year, is where the Jacksons focused their UT attention. The
overall school includes the department of geological sciences and two research
facilities -- the Institute for Geophysics and the Bureau of Economic Geology,
which have a combined budget of $30 million and employ 30 faculty members and
100 research scientists.

The money will be used to support fellowships, scholarships and research rather
than construction, said Bill Fisher, who directs UT's Jackson School of
Geosciences. "We'll make some of the most competitive offers and get some of the
best students in the country," he said.

Jackson's bequest is an investment in the future, according to a letter sent
this week to UT's president: "The resources of the earth have been important to
me and to what Katie and I have been able to achieve. The continued study and
understanding of geology and the resources and environment of the earth will be
important to the University and the citizens of Texas in the future. Our intent
to commit the residue of the estate is in that spirit," the letter said.

Although geological sciences at UT-Austin are ranked 11th in the nation
according to U.S. News & World Report, some of its disciplines rank higher, with
four programs in the top 10. Fisher says the additional money from the Jackson
bequest will help the school climb in all areas.

And what's even more important, Fisher said, are the possibilities for
breakthroughs with statewide impact in areas such as coastal erosion, greater
recovery of oil from reservoirs and the study of climate change.

Jackson's nine-figure gift also takes the university to new philanthropic
heights. Private universities typically receive large donations, such as a $400
million gift last year from a foundation to Stanford University. But among
public campuses, such landmark contributions are unheard of -- often because
public universities receive state support. A $250 million gift last year to the
University of Colorado System was the largest to a public institution, but it
was for the system rather than a single campus.

The Jackson gift is only part of what Faulkner will announce today just prior to
a universitywide open house on Texas Independence Day. He will also announce a
presidential commission to help chart the university's future and an online
initiative designed to give all Texans access to UT libraries, collections and
museums via the Internet. Faulkner's remarks follow a Friday dinner marking the
campaign's success and highlighted with the UT Tower bathed in orange to mark
the occasion.

Although "We're Texas" is UT-Austin's first major comprehensive capital campaign
in its 119-year history, the university did have a focused effort to raise money
for endowed fellowships during the 1980s, which resulted in 557 endowed faculty
positions.

Now, UT-Austin is among 13 American universities in midst of $1 billion capital
campaigns. According to reports in The Chronicle of Education, UT-Austin's
monthly intake over the past year has fluctuated from $31 million reported in
July to $4.7 million in the aftermath of Sept. 11.

Reaching the $1 billion goal ahead of schedule doesn't mean the university's
fund-raising efforts will end. Instead, UT is working toward another $1 billion
and will focus additional efforts in areas that traditionally have had less
donor support, including graduate programs and libraries.

Even as UT surpasses $1 billion, UT officials continue to say the university
budget is suffering because of declining state support. And less than a month
after UT System regents approved a controversial fee for students to pay for
building renovations and repairs, UT fund-raisers say donors want their money to
produce long-term results and not pay for plumbing.

Jackson wants to make a difference for the university and the state, said
Fisher, who also directs the department's fund raising.

"He's coming to the point where he would really like to see some of these things
while he's still around to know about it," Fisher said. "He talks about this
degree from the university and what it meant to him. He and his wife had no
children, and he has a special keenness for the children who are the future of
the state."

sjayson@statesman.com; 445-3620.

(from box)

John A. Jackson

Occupation: retired oilman, founder and owner of Katie Petroleum

Age: 88

Education: bachelor's degree in geology, University of Texas at Austin, 1940

* A sampling of Jackson philanthropy:

UT-Austin -- $25 million for the John A. and Katherine G. Jackson School of
Geosciences; $15 million for an addition and expansion of the geology building;
endowed fellowships, including the Jackson Teaching Fellowship, the Jackson
Fellowship in Geohydrology and the Jackson Fellowship in Exploration Geophysics

Texas Lutheran College -- support for scholarship programs and money for the
construction of an auditorium bearing their names

Municipal libraries in Decatur and Bridgeport -- major contributors Presbyterian
Hospital, Dallas -- donated land and supported construction

(from box)

Top 10 contributors to UT-Austin's $1 billion campaign

The University of Texas at Austin launched a seven-year, $1 billion capital
campaign on Sept. 1, 1997, and has raised more than $1.1 billion so far.

Top ten donors

Amount give Donors

$53.21 million Red and Charline McCombs and the McCombs foundation

San Antonio

$40.17 million John and late Katie Jackson and the Katie Johnson Fund*

Dallas

$39.93 million Peter and Edith O'Donnell Foundation Dallas

$27.53 million Schlumberger Limited Paris, France

$21.55 million The Robert A. Welch Foundation Houston

$17.01 million Chevron Texaco Corporation San Francisco

$16.16 million Houston Endowment Inc.  Houston

$15.66 million David Douglas Duncan Mouans-Sartoux, France

$15.35 million Bernard and Audre Repoport and the Rapoport Foundation

Waco

$13.54 million Joe R. and Teresa L. Long and the JTL Partners Ltd. Charitable

Remainder Unitrust Austin

* Does not include Jackson bequest for $150 million

Source: University of Texas

(from box)

Top gifts for higher education

Amount given Donors

$600 million California Institute of Technology, 2001

$400 million Stanford University, 2001

$360 million Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 2001

$350 million Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2000

$300 million Vanderbilt University, 1998

$295 million Emory University, 1996

$250-$500 million* New York University, 1994

$250 million University of Colorado System, 2001**

$200 million Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering, 1997

$150 million Johns Hopkins University, 2001

$150 million New York University, 2002

$150 million University of Texas at Austin***

* 57-acre Italian estate, Renaissance art collection, at least $25 million in
cash, with a value estimated by the university.

** public institutions

Source: The Chronicle of Higher Education; UT-Austin

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Jackson: Widower unable to make trip from Dallas to Austin for the
announcement. // John A. Jackson, a retired Dallas oilman, says leaving his $150
million estate to the University of Texas at Austin is an investment in 'the
continued study and understanding of geology.' // The John A. and Katherine G.
Jackson School of Geosciences at UT-Austin was named for the Dallas couple
because of their contributions.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               43 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 21, 2002, Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Mayoral races shape up to grab attention
Last-minute filing in Round Rock means Maxwell faces a challenger
four compete in Georgetown race

BYLINE: Tony Plohetski, Carter Nelsen, Kate Alexander and Bob Banta
American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 970 words


A former City Council member's last-minute move Wednesday gave Round Rock a
contested mayoral race in what had been shaping up as a one-candidate bid for
office.

That contest and the one for Georgetown mayor likely will be among the
most-watched of Williamson County races in May. Four Georgetown residents are
seeking the mayor's job -- little surprise given the city's feisty political
climate -- and a council member who had said he wouldn't run again is doing just
that.

The deadline to file for the more than 50 races in Williamson County was
Wednesday, and more than 100 residents are seeking positions as school board and
City Council members and directors of municipal utility districts.

Former Round Rock Council Member Earl Hairston declared his candidacy Wednesday
morning, months after Mayor Robert Stluka, who is not seeking a second term,
announced he wanted Austin auto dealer Nyle Maxwell to become the next mayor.

Hairston, 46, was booted from office last year after one term, which included
one year as mayor pro tem. Stluka helped lead a campaign to oust Hairston and
Jimmy Joseph because he said they interfered with the council's ability to build
consensus.

Hairston hedged about why he waited until Wednesday to announce his plans: It
was the first day of spring, a time of new beginnings, he said.

Maxwell, 46, owns the Maxwell chain of Central Texas auto dealerships and said
he thinks his years as a businessman will help him run the city.

Round Rock will get one new council member, chiropractor Scot Knight, a
political newcomer, who is running unopposed. Mayor Pro Tem Tom Nielson, a
lawyer, also is unopposed.

In Georgetown, four people are running to replace Mayor MaryEllen Kersch, who
was recalled by voters last month and cannot run again until 2006.

The candidates are a bank president, a community activist frequently critical of
the council, a political newcomer who said he is being instructed by a staunch
Kersch supporter and a computer consultant who entered the race at the end of
the day.

And in a last-minute surprise, Council Member Clark Lyda backed off from a
long-running assertion that he would not seek re-election. He will face Gabe
Sansing, a former member of the city's planning and zoning board, in the race
for District 2. Lyda, who had said publicly in the months leading up to the
recall election that he wouldn't run again, filed at the end of the day. He and
three other council members escaped ouster Feb. 2.

In a prepared statement, Lyda, a controlled-growth advocate, said he decided
within the past several days to run again because he didn't feel the city had
completed major policy changes.

"I had a purpose for running the first time, and that purpose has yet to be
fulfilled," he said.

The mayoral candidates are First Texas Bancorp chief executive Gary Nelon, 51;
community activist Della Green, 61, who lost a bid for the council last year and
a bid for mayor in 1999; Bill Lee, a 73-year-old retiree who would say only that
he is running under the guidance of a Kersch supporter; and Tim Gahagan, a
computer consultant who could not be reached for comment Wednesday.

Farley Snell, a retired Southwestern University professor, is running unopposed
for the District 6 council seat being vacated by longtime Council Member Charles
"Hoss" Burson.

In addition to mayoral and council races in Round Rock and Georgetown, much of
this year's election furor is likely to hinge on races for the Round Rock and
Leander school boards.

Winners of three open seats on the Round Rock board of trustees face the
challenge of keeping the lid on the cost of running schools.

Candidates for Place 1 are incumbent trustee President Jackie Burkey, 50, a
homemaker, and H. Lee Parham, 39, a state employee.

Running in Place 3 are John Romano, 46, a manager for Vignette Corp., teacher
Richard A. Wilgoren, 63, and Efrain Davila, 48, a Travis County counseling
program manager. The seat is being vacated by Gaye Arnold, who announced her
retirement several months ago.

Incumbent Raymond Hartfield, 54, a computer systems consultant, is unopposed for
Place 6.

Also on the ballot for Round Rock school district voters are two proposals that
would allow the district to buy "attendance credits" from the state and would
let trustees approve or disapprove letting the trustees send money to another
school district to help educate that district's students.

In the Leander school district, three challengers are eyeing one vacant board
seat, leaving board President Jim Sneeringer to run unopposed for re-election.
The winners will have to contend with the district's continuing growth and the
diminishing resources coming from the state.

Vying for the seat that will be left vacant by the departing Robert Fry are Pam
Waggoner, John Cotton and Jeremy Story. Waggoner, 40, is the president of the
Parent-Teacher Association for Steiner Ranch Elementary and runs an insurance
company with her husband. Cotton, a 41-year-old Cedar Park resident, is an
information systems manager for the University of Texas. He ran unsuccessfully
for the board last year in another crowded field of challengers. Story, 26,
works as an administrator for a Christian organization that works on college
campuses, and he also runs a small business in Cedar Park.

All three candidates have children in the school system.

tplohetski@statesman.com; 246-0053

Staff writers Carter Nelsen, Kate Alexander and Bob Banta contributed.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2002

CORRECTION: Correction: In Thursday's Metro & State section, a story about
Williamson County election candidates included an error in describing the
background of Gabe Sansing, who is running for Georgetown City Council. He is a
current member of the planning and zoning commission.

GRAPHIC: Earl Hairston, left, whom voters booted from the Round Rock City
Council, will face Nyle Maxwell in the mayoral race.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               45 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 6, 2002, Monday

Lobbying from Austin favors wits over glitz
Local agencies find ways to shape bills in D.C., bring home cash

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1652 words


WASHINGTON -- Even by Washington standards, Save Our Environment threw a zesty
bash for 10 a.m. on a Tuesday.

Dave Matthews, whose rock band is filling arenas on its One Sweet World tour,
spoke against global warming, while Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield dished up
their newest frozen treat, Ben & Jerry's One Sweet Whirled. Ninety reporters
packed the ballroom, giving strong attention to a key environmental cause.

A lunch thrown by the Lower Colorado River Authority on Thursday for Texas
congressional aides was far more modest.

Plastic plates held ribs and sausage carried to Capitol Hill from Austin's
County Line Bar-B-Q. It was a busy day, so about 20 aides bolted their food
while hearing about LCRA plans to build power lines in Texas.

The cost was $467, but if the LCRA lunch seems small-time or inconsequential,
guess again.

Lobbying isn't always caviar and tuxedos, and legislation is rarely moved by
rock bands and movie stars, even if that's where the cameras point.

When you represent a local government or agency, much of the nitty-gritty work
that affects Central Texas takes place in congressional offices with aides who
look like they're still in high school. It's done during quick trips from Austin
on budgets that can't afford Dave the janitor, let alone the Dave Matthews Band.

More notably, lobbying by the City of Austin, the LCRA or numerous state
agencies is typically done without the juice that opens doors on Capitol Hill:
large campaign contributions, high-priced lobbyists or a bloc of motivated
voters. Yet success can mean the difference between taming floods and building
highways, or not.

"The fact is, we're just a bunch of civil servants. We can't do much to
influence the vote of a legislator," said David Soileau, manager of federal
legislative affairs for the Texas Department of Transportation's Legislative
Affairs Office in Austin. Legislators "need to please the people who pull the
lever, and the lobbyists represent the people who pull the lever, for the most
part."

Still, Austin-area lobbyists say three elements are the keys to success in
Washington.

First, hire somebody who knows the Washington scene: Who has the grant money?
Why is a bill stalled? Which legislators are feuding?

Second, work through your representatives and senators, the only people with a
reason to stand up for you in Congress.

"Nobody (else) up here cares about Central Texas. They have their own areas they
care about. That's why it's so important to get your delegation working
together," said Missy Mandell, the LCRA's executive adviser for federal affairs
and a former deputy White House adviser for President Carter.

Finally, never fly to Washington without that one gift that's welcome in every
congressional office: grassroots support.

A letter signed by every mayor in Central Texas and a long list of diverse
organizations tells lawmakers that you're serious -- and that they aren't likely
to step into the middle of a local controversy.

Long-term strategy

In the last half of 2001, Washington lobbyists spent more than $747 million to
win friends and influence decisions. That's triple what Austin spends on public
safety in an entire year, and much of that $747 million finances efforts to
create, change or kill legislation; sway federal agencies; or gain favor in the
White House.

It's a high-powered business that revolves around fund-raisers, receptions and
building relationships with lawmakers and their staffs. In fact, the best
lobbying firms will identify up-and-coming lawmakers years in advance, said
Joseph Guzzo, the Texas Department of Transportation's full-time advocate in
Washington.

"It could take 10 to 15 years before he or she moves up to a position of
authority, but the good people identify those characters, throw a barbecue and
take care of their staffs. And you could go through 15 to 20 staffers between
now and the time (their boss) becomes important," he said.

Guzzo works on the same principle, if on a different scale. He's already
identified his contacts -- the 30 Texas representatives and both senators.

On highway issues, he tries to be the primary source of information for the
Texas congressional delegation, holding periodic classes for legislative aides
who research transportation issues. It's all to prepare for this year's
high-stakes battle over how to divide highway money over the next five to six
years -- important stuff for a state that can't afford to build two-thirds of
its needed highways.

Other states have little incentive to boost Texas' fortunes, so job one is
uniting Lone Star lawmakers.

In 1998, when Congress greatly increased Texas' share of federal highway
dollars, both senators and 28 of 30 Texas representatives signed on as
co-sponsors. (Reps. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and Ron Paul, R-Surfside, did not,
though Doggett spoke in favor of the bill on the House floor.)

"Some states had 100 percent, but we were really close for such a large state.
And it meant more money for Texas," Soileau said.

Texas, however, remains a "donor" state for highway money, getting back 87 to 89
cents for every gas tax dollar sent to Washington. In 2000, that added up to
$375 million.

Whittling that "donation" down is a top priority this go-around.

Hiring specialists

Last year, 5,514 bills were introduced in Congress (the House passed 229, the
Senate 132).

Wading through the avalanche -- and keeping tabs on a labyrinth of federal
agencies, industry groups and public-interest organizations -- wouldn't be
possible from Austin.

That's why the city hires Barbara McCall, a lobbyist who represents only cities
(in Texas, that also includes Dallas, Lubbock and Denton).

Her job is to monitor legislation, grant opportunities and Washington's
political climate, said John Hrncir, Austin's government relations officer. "She
lets us know the timing of the process so we have an idea when it's appropriate
for us to make phone calls and visits," he said.

Those visits must be carefully prepared. As Bill Shute, the University of Texas
System vice chancellor in Washington, says, "What most people don't appreciate
is that in the course of a day, typically, members of Congress will have
appointments with anywhere up to 20 or 30 people."

McCall advises Austin officials on how best to make their pitch and joins them
on their rounds to congressional offices and agencies. She also helps Austin
lobby public-interest groups such as environmental organizations -- a
little-known part of the job.

"The organizations make every effort to develop a national policy that works for
cities across the country, but cities are very different. We don't want them,
for example, to come down on the side of Northeastern cities, so essentially, we
lobby the lobbyists," McCall said.

The arrangement has worked well for Austin, Hrncir said.

"We've found it to be more effective to work with Barbara, who's a city
specialist, than going with the general hired-gun lobbyist," he said.

The exception came with the conversion of Bergstrom Air Force Base into Austin's
new airport. To guide the $690 million project, Austin in 1995 hired one of the
largest, most prestigious lobbying firms in Washington -- Verner, Liipfert,
Bernhard, McPherson & Hand.

That arrangement cost the city $560,000. For comparison, Austin's contract with
McCall is capped at $41,000 a year, and she has billed the city an average of
$26,600 the past two years.

Patience pays off

Mandell, based at the LCRA's headquarters in Austin, flies to Washington
periodically to follow issues of interest to her agency.

She's monitored energy deregulation efforts, worked with the Army Corps of
Engineers to finance flood-control projects and prepared for this summer's
hearings and debate over the Clean Air Act.

"Issues can take years to mature and get solved in Congress," Mandell said. "It
takes a lot of patience."

Mandell also hosts events such as last month's County Line Bar-B-Q lunch, which
had nothing to do with legislation before Congress. The LCRA wanted to tell
congressional aides about its efforts to avoid electric-system bottlenecks by
building transmission lines in West Texas.

"At a time when the federal government is grappling with energy policy and
potentially restructuring the energy markets, we wanted the Texas delegation to
know what we're doing," said Mandell, who expects to spend about $17,000 this
year working in Washington.

While professionals run the lobbying game, there's plenty of room for amateurs.

"Right now, it's almost become pro-forma for cities to have delegations go up.
It demonstrates that you have local support," said Thais Austin, vice president
for public policy for the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce.

In March, the chamber sponsored a Washington trip that had 32 business and
community leaders scurrying to 70 meetings in only 2 1/2 days.

"Even though the people are paying their own way, we try to get our money's
worth," she said.

Congress is still early in the process of appropriating next year's money, so
the chamber won't know until late summer if the trip paid off. But one of the
more successful visits, in 1999, started out as a disaster.

This was a small delegation seeking money for the Balcones Canyonlands Preserve
in Northwest Austin. Because of delays and missed flights, they arrived at 4:30
a.m. -- without luggage and three hours from the first of seven back-to-back
meetings.

Thais Austin borrowed a suit from a relative in Virginia. Another participant
borrowed clothes from a bellhop -- a very accommodating, though shorter, fellow.

Somehow, they pulled it off, getting $4.1 million to buy land -- "the most
successful grant for habitat that year," said Travis County Commissioner Karen
Sonleitner, who carried her bags on the plane that trip.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Joseph Guzzo, lobbyist for Texas' Department of Transportation, says
lobbyists identify lawmakers who will be influential years before they become
important.// Barbara McCall: Monitors legislation on behalf of Austin, Dallas,
Lubbock and other cities. // Missy Mandell: LCRA's adviser for federal affairs
says it's important that Texas lawmakers work together.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               46 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 26, 2002, Sunday

Triathlon boasts scenic route for spectators

BYLINE: Brom Hoban, AMERICAN-STATESMAN CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C12

LENGTH: 567 words


Befitting its name, the Capital of Texas Triathlon will take competitors on a
course that passes in front of the Capitol, giving the growing event a
distinctive setting and boosting hopes for its future.

"We were looking for a location that brought together the real flavor of
Austin," said race director Brad Davison, who will oversee Monday's event.
"Downtown Austin has the excitement and the backdrop . . . it's a great location
for it."

For the past 11 years, the triathlon was staged at a variety of locations,
including Camp Chautauqua on Lake Travis at Pace Bend and at Lake Austin by the
Loop 360 Bridge. This year, the race will begin at Auditorium Shores and include
a swimming leg in Town Lake.

Organizers said the number of entrants totals about 1,500 -- almost double the
number of past years -- and elite triathlete James Bonney said, "I'm sure the
change of location had a lot to do with the interest this year. People are much
more likely to want to come downtown to Town Lake than they are to head way out
in the country. Plus, it's really great for the spectators, too."

Monday's event actually consists of three races: an Olympic-distance competition
consisting of a 1.5-kilometer swim, 40K bike race and 10K run; a sprint-distance
race made up of a 750-meter swim, 20K bike race and 5K run; and a "first tri"
for beginners that involves a 375-meter swim, 10K bike race and 5K run.

It's all part of Davison's efforts to restructure the Capital of Texas Triathlon
into an event that caters to age-group competitors and beginners.

Davison, co-chair of the National Age Group Committee for the United States
Triathlon Association, sees Austin as a hidden mecca for triathletes. "Austin
has the hills, good open-water areas, a temperate climate and the support of
local government and businesses," he said. "The Austin Triathletes club is the
third-largest triathetes' club in the nation."

About 400 people are entered in the beginners' race, while approximately 700
age-group competitors have registered for the sprint-distance event. Meanwhile,
Bonney will join such local pro triathletes as Jamie Cleveland and Andrea Fisher
in a field of about 700 for the Olympic-distance race.

"I tried living and training in Southern California in 2000," said Bonney, "and
it doesn't even begin to compare to Austin in terms of resources and community."

RunTex owner Paul Carrozza believes strongly in the sport, and is showing that
through his financial support for Bonney, Cleveland and Fisher. All three work
flexible hours for RunTex built around their training and traveling. They
compete internationally in races that stretch up to the Ironman distance -- a
2.4-mile swim, 112-mile biking leg and 26.2-mile run.

"The idea is to create an environment where triathletes can be productive --
combine their skills outside and inside the sport," Carrozza said. "I want to
foster their careers. I foresee a community where we have both elite and
age-group runners, and triathletes with a support base that allows them to
develop."

Capital of Texas Triathlon

When: 7 a.m. Monday

Where: Auditorium Shores, Riverside Drive and Lamar Boulevard

Web site: www.captextri.com

Top spectator spots: The course is ideal for spectators, who can watch the swim
and run from the First Street Bridge and then walk to the Congress Avenue Bridge
to catch the biking action.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               47 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 6, 2002, Thursday

Aides: Global warming view unchanged
White House restates stance after Bush criticizes EPA report

BYLINE: Amy Schatz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 455 words


WASHINGTON -- A day after President Bush dismissed a study about global warming
by his own Environmental Protection Agency as a product of "bureaucracy," the
White House was mending fences Wednesday, downplaying suggestions that its view
had changed.

On Tuesday, President Bush appeared to distance himself from the EPA report,
which said human activities such as burning coal, oil and other fossil fuels
were a main reason for an increase in greenhouse gases, which causes global
warming. Asked about the report, Bush replied: "I read the report put out by the
bureaucracy."

That remark came after some conservatives and talk radio hosts blasted the
report and the Bush administration's shift in policy, which made front-page
headlines across the country earlier in the week.

Tuesday, Bush reiterated his opposition to the Kyoto treaty, which calls for a
mandatory reduction in greenhouse gases by industrial nations.

"The Kyoto treaty would severely damage the United States economy, and I don't
accept that," Bush said.

But after facing criticism for appearing to dismiss a finding by its own
administration officials, the White House downplayed the suggestion that its
global warming policy had changed at all.

"The president has said, citing the National Academy of Sciences, that the
increase (in global warming) is due in large part to human activity," White
House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Wednesday.

"The bottom line for the president is, number one, he's made a proposal that he
believes is a proposal that not only can reduce the problem of greenhouse gases
and global warming, but also protects the American economy," Fleischer said.

The Bush administration has been criticized heavily by the international
community for refusing to sign the treaty, which was ratified by the European
Union last week and by Japan earlier this week.

The administration's plan to reduce global warming calls for voluntary measures
that would allow for the continued growth in fuel emissions and a long-term goal
of slowing the rate of growth.

Environmental groups have dismissed the Bush plan, which they say will not
significantly reduce emissions because of its voluntary nature. However, many
environmental groups said they were encouraged by the EPA report, which laid out
specific reasons for the increase in global warming and the potential
consequences. Previously, the Bush administration's stance was that more
research was needed before conclusions could be made.

"They've admitted that global warming is happening. That is different from the
past," said Katherine Morrison, a staff attorney at the Public Interest Research
Group, a national lobbying organization.

aschatz@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               48 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 9, 2002, Sunday

Immigrants drawn to Austin's creativity
Foreign-born residents crucial to economy, culture and vice versa

BYLINE: Mark Lisheron, Bill Bishop, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2403 words


One in an occasional series

When Mitsubishi Corp. asked Laszlo Belady to help start four technology
laboratories in Cambridge, Mass., in 1991, he kept his house in Austin.

In fundamental ways, Belady is a stereotypical immigrant to the United States,
full of admiration for this country's opportunity and freedom. He is, in
addition, a political refugee and an internationally respected computer pioneer
who has lived and worked with ideas in six countries on three continents.

Ideas, he says, are the products of individuals who work best where constraints
are fewest.

Immigrants of all nationalities, education levels and economic backgrounds
continue to settle overwhelmingly in the gateway cities of New York and Los
Angeles and to a much lesser extent, in San Francisco, Miami and Chicago. Their
reasons for coming are as old as the colonization of North America.

However, immigrants, particularly those with education and financial
wherewithal, such as Belady, are making their way to a new kind of American
city. These cities have economies driven by a creative class of people who
traffic in ideas: the writers of software, music, management plans and novels.

In these 20 cities of ideas, which include Austin, research by the Austin
American-Statesman has found faster population growth, higher average yearly
wages, higher patent production and a creative class a third larger than in
traditional U.S. cities. In short, the economies of these cities of ideas are
the most vigorous in the country.

Immigrants are a crucial part of the equation, according to demographers and
economic development officials. The cities of ideas are welcoming places for
both foreign-born residents and creative workers.

According to research spearheaded by Robert Cushing, a statistical consultant to
the American-Statesman, the residents of the cities of ideas are more open to
other cultures than are residents in slower-growing, less innovative regions.

U.S. census figures indicate that immigrants are attracted to these cities.

In 1990, foreign-born residents made up 12 percent of the population of the
cities of ideas, while they represented just 7 percent of the population in
American cities that were less innovative and had a smaller portion of the
high-tech economy. In 10 years, from 1990 to 2000, the Austin metro area added
85,097 foreign-born people to its population, or nearly 56 percent of the
152,834 foreign-born people who lived here as of March 2000.

William Frey, a demographer with the Milken Institute and a professor at the
University of Michigan, has written extensively about how cities with robust
immigration are in ascendance while those that cannot attract immigrants are in
decline.

"(Immigrants) revitalize the regions they move to and enrich them culturally
with their tastes in music, food and entertainment," Frey wrote recently in
American Demographics magazine. "The regions that do not attract (immigrants)
have often experienced a prolonged economic decline, or they lack the natural or
cultural amenities that many migrants seek."

Among these foreign-born arrivals are immigrant entrepreneurs and highly skilled
workers. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an
international economic development cooperative of 30 countries, including the
United States, credited highly skilled immigrants for the ability of the United
States to sustain growth in the software industry over the past decade.

"Because human capital is a key factor in the innovation process, openness to
ideas from abroad and efforts to attract or use skilled human resources abroad
are increasing," its 2000 report says. "Immigration may therefore be one of the
factors that have enabled the U.S. boom to continue, as it filled some of the
most urgent skill needs."

The entrepreneurs

Many of these skilled immigrants are starting their own businesses. As many as a
fourth of all technology businesses created over the past several years in
Austin were started by immigrant entrepreneurs, estimates Johnny S. Butler,
chairman of the Department of Management in the Red McCombs School of Business
at the University of Texas.

Joel Wiggins, director of the Austin Technology Incubator, and David Gibson,
director of research programs for IC 2, say Austin has attained international
standing as a fertile place to start a business, particularly in high-tech.
Wiggins and Gibson play host to dozens of foreign business delegations each
year.

"They come to find out how Austin did it," Gibson says. "Austin is seen
internationally as a magnet for entrepreneurship. Austin has always been a
magnet for talent and brainpower."

"I tell people who come here," Wiggins adds, "that there is only one Fortune 500
company (Dell) in the area. I tell people we're not a corporate town, we're an
entrepreneurial town."

The notion that Austin is not only attracting some of the brightest people from
around the country but from around the world was a tremendous pull for Belady.
After seven years with Mitsubishi, Belady moved back into his Austin home to
serve as executive director of the Austin Technology Council, an adviser to
venture capital and startup companies, and as an adjunct professor of electrical
and computer engineering at UT.

"To indicate when I became totally devoted to Austin, it was when we decided to
keep our home here, which we bought in 1984," Belady says. "We knew we would
return, recognizing that Austin was just at the beginning of something great.
Even today I would say that it is immature as compared to Silicon Valley. It is
just in the making. What it is is something quite exciting."

His excitement comes from Austin's potential to become a true global city if it
follows Silicon Valley's immigration lessons. Immigrants have for two
generations left their countries -- India, Taiwan and China, in particular -- to
study and to start businesses in Silicon Valley.

And according to a recent study by AnnaLee Saxenian, a professor of regional
economic development at the University of California, Berkeley, many of these
entrepreneurs have extended their businesses to their home countries.

Rather than a brain drain from a developing economy to an advanced economy,
Saxenian says, Silicon Valley has established a pattern in high-tech communities
of brain circulation. Not only do these entrepreneurs bring culture and
diversity to their American outposts, they return to their native countries
sophisticated in the ways of doing business, Saxenian says in her study.

That kind of circulation looked improbable in Austin until untested immigrant
entrepreneurs landed venture capital, Satyendra Rana says.

Rana, who arrived in the United States from India in 1985, is one of those
entrepreneurs. Rana founded two software startups through the Austin Technology
Incubator: Web Office Inc. and Exterprise Inc., which he sold a year ago to
Commerce One Inc. of California. Rana is currently the president of Inventes
Inc., another software company.

He is also the president of the local Indus Entrepreneurs, or TiE. The
organization was founded in 1992 by immigrants from the Indian subcontinent who
wanted to share their business success with new entrepreneurs coming to Silicon
Valley.

TiE boasts more than 40 organizations and 6,000 members worldwide today. The
Austin chapter formed in 1997.

Emissaries were unable to launch a chapter in Austin a decade ago, Rana says.
"Into the mid '90s, Austin wasn't there yet," Rana says. "There wasn't that
critical mass of small business and venture capital. In the early 1990s, it was
hard to find investors for a company founded by Indians."

Indians have for generations been represented at the top of computer and
engineering school classes at the best American colleges. Indians, however, have
suffered from both the self-image and perception that they are not assertive
enough to take leadership roles or to strike out on their own, says Vijay
Sankaran, vice president of Inventes and a TiE member.

"There are the cultural barriers, that Indians are more introverted or that
there is a language barrier," Sankaran, who came in 1990, says.

Rana had also seen the tremendous cultural opportunity for immigrants in Austin.
Rana had come to Austin from Detroit, where the city struggles painfully to
diversify from an automotive manufacturing economy. "There was a lot more
creative experimentation going on here in Austin (than in Detroit), and this I
could understand and appreciate," he says.

While Saxenian's study suggests that immigrant entrepreneurs are primarily
concerned with business climate, Austin has a tremendous advantage in being able
to sell its family environment as part of an appealing quality of life, Frank
Flauto, international program manager for the City of Austin, says. "Quality of
life is a huge selling point," he says.

A cultural mix

At IC 2, Wiggins has just finished a 50-minute conference call with
businesspeople from New Zealand. While most of the visitors to the technology
incubator are Chinese, Indian and Korean, he has recently had conversations with
Russians, Poles and Armenians. Their preoccupations with Austin fall into three
general categories, Wiggins says.

"They know we have the business infrastructure," he says. "They believe we have
a friendly and cooperative culture. And they find that Austin is still of a
manageable size to make things seem possible without too many complications."

The mix of cultures, the different foods, the variety of goods are attractive to
immigrants and creative workers alike.

People in the cities of ideas are less involved with traditional American
institutions than residents of slower-growing regions, but they are more
interested in other places and cultures, the American-Statesman's study of
polling done from the mid-1970s through 1998 found.

Meanwhile, ethnic groceries, restaurants, churches and social organizations
provide amenities that allow foreign business founders to remain connected to
their native cultures, Flauto says. The university, in turn, graduates a steady
stream of inventive people who now have the choice to begin a business in
Austin, he says.

This cycle has helped Austin and a handful of other creative cities attain the
glimmer of success that immigrants recognize, says Angelos Angelou, a former
exchange student from Greece whose great ambition was to succeed in the United
States.

Angelou, the former head of economic development for the City of Austin, took
his expertise private when he started Angelou Economics, a company that focuses
on economic development in the field of technology.

"Austin has become one of the few places in the country where people come to
live by choice, for all it has to offer," Angelou says. "From the immigrant
point of view, if you smell success, this is the place for you. Austin is such a
place."

Smell of success

John Y. Hur smelled success in Austin.

Hur fled a culture in South Korea in which family history determined one's
occupation. He earned undergraduate and master's degrees in this country while
working full time. He bought a 7-Eleven to learn how American business worked.
He worked for IBM for 16 years. And he began investing in real estate in
different parts of the country.

Austin real estate in the 1980s made Hur rich, and it nearly broke him. But he
would never leave. Today, he owns five businesses built around chemical sales,
real estate and investment. He helped found and is active in the Texas Asian
Chamber of Commerce.

"Austin is on the radar screen in Korea as a place where you can participate in
American culture and succeed in the larger marketplace," Hur says.

This larger marketplace, this world marketplace, where Austin is gaining ground,
is the only one that makes sense to someone like Belady. He has lived a working
life putting ideas into play, solving problems, defying the common convention of
even the most futuristic businesses. He has been, by turns, fiercely curious,
restless and bored.

Belady directed software development for IBM, worked to reform the obsession
with procedure in high-tech businesses in Japan and was a founder of the
pioneering Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corp. of Austin. He has
taught and advised all over the world, owns nine computer technology patents and
has written in Hungarian, English, German and French.

For all of this change, there is a constant. Freedom is the most necessary ally
of invention. Just months after he earned his master's degree in aeronautical
engineering from Budapest Technical University in 1956, the democrats and
patriots of Hungary rose up to challenge the Soviet Union in Hungary. The
Soviets rolled tanks through Budapest, killing thousands and driving 200,000
Hungarians out of their country.

When Hungary was freed with the fall of the Communists, Belady returned to help
businesses get started. He joined the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He bought a
house in Budapest.

His home, however, is in the United States. Austin has become a kind of symbol
of the reason Belady came and the reason he believes Austin has such a promising
future.

"Any meaningful process, any inventive process is the work of the individual,"
he says. "Most people, myself included, invent better, create better in places
like this. I'm an individualist; that is why I love this country."

(from box)

The cities of ideas

* Dallas-Fort Worth

* Los Angeles-Riverside, Calif.-Orange County, Calif.

* Boston-Worcester, Mass.-Lawrence, Maine

* Seattle-Tacoma, Wash.-Bremerton, Wash.

* Washington- Baltimore

* Albuquerque, N.M.

* Chicago-Gary, Ind.-Kenosha, Wis.

* New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, N.Y.

* Atlanta* Phoenix-Mesa, Ariz.

* Philadelphia-Wilmington, Del.-Atlantic City, N.J.

* Rochester, Minn.* San Diego

* Raleigh, N.C.-Durham, N.C.-Chapel Hill, N.C.

* Denver-Boulder, Colo.-Greeley, Colo.

* Austin-San Marcos

* San Francisco-Oakland, Calif.-San Jose, Calif.

* Houston-Galveston-Brazoria

* Boise City, Idaho

* Portland-Salem, Ore.

(from box)

On statesman.com

To debate the findings or comment on the occasional series 'Cities of Ideas"
Prosperity and its Price,' send comments to citiesofideas@statesman.com. A
collection of readers' reponses will be available at
statesman.com/specialreports/citiesofideas

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: India immigrants Vijay Sankaran, left, Anupam Govil and Satyendra Rana
often lunch at this Burger King on West Braker Lane in North Austin because it
is across the street from the Austin Technology Incubator, where the three
entrepreneurs presently run a software startup, Inventes Inc.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               49 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 22, 2002, Saturday

Don't spend millions, Austin, when there'sa city budget shortfall

BYLINE: American-Statesman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 393 words


As the Austin City Council stares at its bleakest budget picture in a decade,
there are mounting pressures for it to spend millions of dollars to buy property
and remove it from the tax rolls.

Austin began the 2003 budget process with a $68 million projected shortfall.
That already has been cut by more than half as City Manager Toby Futrell imposed
a hiring freeze, cut costs across the board and proposed fee increases to up the
revenue projection.

Still, the city is looking at a property tax increase, shorter library hours,
higher electric rates and increased sewer, drainage and trash fees. In all
likelihood there won't be a raise for most city employees, expenses will be cut
and staff reductions will hit many departments.

That is not an inspiring financial assessment and certainly not one to warrant
spending millions acquiring land to limit development. Yet some environmental
groups are asking council to purchase the Stratus Properties site near Circle C
in Southwest Austin.

Stratus and the city have agreed to a plan that allows 830 homes, 900 apartments
and 1 million square feet of commercial space on 1,250 acres. For the city to
buy that acreage now would cost at least $50 million and possibly twice that
much.

Austin has spent millions over the past five years, buying land to protect its
watershed, but the Stratus purchase would be an incredibly poor expenditure of
taxpayer money at a most awkward time.

There is also a push for the council to buy the property adjoining the defunct
Seaholm power plant. Lumbermen's Investment Corp. owns the five-acre plot
bounded by West Cesar Chavez Street, North Lamar Boulevard and West Third Street
and has plans to build condominiums on the site.

Several activists are pushing for the city to buy the property for a park and
convert Seaholm into a civic project of an undefined nature. The cost is
estimated at $10 million.

The current Seaholm development plan includes the Lumbermen's project with
various city amenities surrounding it, which seems a vastly better option than
spending $10 million and taking a 500,000-square-foot downtown development off
the tax rolls.

Both the Stratus and Lumbermen's proposals would be questionable in the flushest
economic climate. For the severe 2003 budget, they are too absurd for serious
consideration.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Environmental groups want Austin to buy two properties to be used as
parkland instead of development: the area near the defunct Seaholm power plant
off West Cesar Chavez Street, above, and a Stratus Properties site near Circle C
in Southwest Austin.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               50 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 28, 2002, Friday

San Antonio CHL team calls it quits
New AHL franchise forces Iguanas out

BYLINE: Jason Cohen, AMERICAN-STATESMAN CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 580 words


The Ice Bats and their fans won't have the San Antonio Iguanas to loathe this
season.

Austin's nearest Central Hockey League rival shut its doors Wednesday, having
been forced out of Freeman Coliseum by the San Antonio Spurs. The Spurs'
ownership group has teamed up with the National Hockey League's Florida Panthers
to place an American Hockey League franchise, the Rampage, at the new SBC
Center. The Spurs also control adjacent Freeman Coliseum.

Earlier this year, it had been reported that the Spurs might purchase the
Iguanas, or accept them as a tenant at Freeman or the SBC Center. But since
announcing the NBA team's involvement with an AHL franchise in April, Spurs
executive vice president Rick Pych has declined comment on the Iguanas'
situation. "Our focus is in concluding everything we need to do to play AHL
hockey in SBC Center," he told the San Antonio Business Journal.

Unable to find a home, the Iguanas called it quits.

"Based upon the current market climate in San Antonio, the decision has been
made to suspend the Iguanas' operation for the coming season," CHL President
Brad Treliving said. "We will continue to work in conjunction with Iguanas
ownership to best evaluate all options available to the franchise for
2003-2004."

The Iguanas averaged just fewer than 5,000 fans per game last season, the
third-highest figure in the CHL behind Oklahoma City and Austin. The team had
hoped to move to the Alamodome, but only if owner Dave Elmore could find new
investors to share the increased costs. CHL ownership partner Horn Chen recently
purchased 26 percent of the franchise, but Elmore wanted to unload another 25
percent.

"We had a deal in place with the Alamodome with numbers that would have been
very workable for the next few seasons," Iguanas General Manager Rick Carden
said. "We felt we had an agreement in place with a potential ownership group a
few weeks ago, but somewhere things just fell through the cracks."

The Iguanas began operations in 1994, the third season for the Central Hockey
League.

Despite battling San Antonio in a wire-to-wire Southeast Division race, the Bats
owned a 10-4 record against the Iguanas last season, including a first-round
victory in the CHL playoffs.

"We built a great rivalry in one year -- I could only imagine what it might have
been like in two," Ice Bats Coach Brent Hughes said. "It's a shame to lose them,
for the league and for us."

Hughes has already been contacted by several San Antonio players looking for new
jobs.

"I'd love to have two, three, four of their guys -- they had a great team down
there," he said.

The Iguanas have been through this before. In 1996 the International Hockey
League, a higher-caliber circuit since absorbed by the AHL, brought the San
Antonio Dragons to town for a disastrous two-year stay. The Iguanas suspended
operations for one season of that "Ice War."

But with a brand-new arena, the backing of the Spurs and a team stocked with
Florida Panthers prospects, the Rampage could be tougher competition for a CHL
club.

With the expansion Laredo Bucks joining the Southeast Division for 2002-2003,
the CHL's overall alignment will not change -- 16 clubs in four divisions, with
eight playoff teams.

Note: The Ice Bats will hold their "Roller Bats" session this Saturday at 10
a.m. at Factory Mattress, 5061 Brodie Lane. Bats players Jeff Greenlaw and
Patrick Brownlee will conduct a roller hockey clinic for children ages 6 to 15.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               53 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 2, 2002, Friday

U.S. vehicles blamed for greenhouse gases

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: News; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 505 words


WASHINGTON -- Concentrating on designing and marketing cars and trucks with
plenty of power, carmakers have done little to reduce the greenhouse gases
released by their vehicles, an environmental organization charged this week.

The United States cannot make significant headway in dealing with greenhouse
gases until it finds a way to reduce hundreds of millions of tons of
planet-warming carbon dioxide pumped into the air by cars and trucks every year,
a report published Tuesday by Environmental Defense said.

Carbon dioxide from car exhaust pipes is the largest single source of greenhouse
gas in the United States, according to the report, "Automakers' Corporate Carbon
Burdens."

In fact, the entire carbon dioxide production of only four countries -- the
United States (without cars and trucks), Russia, China and Japan -- exceeds what
is produced by cars and trucks sold in America, said John DeCicco, author of the
report.

That would mean that if U.S. vehicles were a country, they would rank somewhere
between Japan and India on the list of carbon dioxide sources.

Atmospheric scientists say that by trapping heat in the environment, greenhouse
gases are causing the planet's temperature to slowly rise. National outputs of
carbon dioxide, the most abundant greenhouse gas, are usually measured in terms
of the tons of carbon contained in the gas.

Carmakers have "put their design and marketing talents into anything but
addressing their products' harm to the planet," DeCicco said.

A representative of the automobile industry dismissed the report.

"Trying to hold us responsible for global warming is like trying to fight
obesity by forcing clothing manufacturers to make smaller sizes," said Eron
Shosteck, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the trade
association that represents all major carmakers except Honda.

Shosteck said 50 different models of cars with highway mileage ratings of 30
miles per gallon or better are available to American car buyers.

"Very few people buy them," he said.

Fuel burned for transportation accounts for 33 percent of the country's carbon
dioxide output, DeCicco said.

That means the 1.7 billion tons of carbon contained in the country's total
output of carbon dioxide includes around 330 million tons from cars and other
personal vehicles.

Assigning a "carbon burden" to each manufacturer on the basis of the size and
characteristics of its fleet, DeCicco noted that General Motors' 2000 model year
U.S. fleet imposed a burden around 7.4 million tons of carbon on the atmosphere.

Altogether, he said, old and new General Motors cars produce more than 80
million tons of carbon a year -- meaning General Motors accounts for about the
same amount of carbon dioxide as Brazil.

Second was Ford, with 6.2 million tons from the 2000 model year. Then came
Daimler-Chrysler with 4.6 million tons and Toyota with 2.2 million tons.

Hondas accounted for 1.4 million tons and Nissan, 1 million tons, DeCicco said.

jeffn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               54 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 15, 2002, Thursday

Aligned with nature
Architects follow the sun in designing award-winning home

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN ARTS WRITER

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 810 words


What if your house could tell time? Not only the progression of the hours during
the course of the day, but also the rhythm of the seasons, the changing angles
of light as the Earth moved from winter to summer and back again.

On a hillside in West Austin, Robert Jackson Architects designed precisely such
a house. And it netted them an honor award in this year's Austin Chapter of the
American Institute of Architects design competition.

"For thousands of years, traditional architecture was always connected to the
Earth's axes," says Jackson, noting that it wasn't just sacred structures such
as Stonehenge, the Parthenon or the Taj Majal that were positioned according to
their orientation to the sun, but ordinary domestic structures, too, were
situated with respect to solar and lunar movement. But as human civilization
marched on, with the advent of urban grids, modern suburban housing developments
and even climate-control technology that cut us off from the outdoors, attention
to how a house relates to the outside has all but been forgotten. "But once you
become aware of it, it's easy to let it be the underlying theme of a house and
let it influence the location of the house on the site as well as the geometry
of the structure itself," Jackson says.

The site is a wooded 7-acre, pie-shaped lot that slopes down to the east from a
cul-de-sac in Westlake Hills. The owners, who demurred from the spotlight,
wanted their home to be immersed in the natural beauty of the site -- to be as
connected as possible to the outdoors while they were indoors. And they were
intrigued by Jackson's ideas about siting the house to the natural cycles of the
seasons.

For privacy, Jackson and the owners chose a spot about 200 feet down the hill
from the street. From the top of the drive, only the peak of the chimney is
visible. The location also turned out to have the most advantageous views down
into a beautiful canyon as well as more distant vistas.

Jackson imagined the house as a simple, relaxed "V"-shaped structure, connecting
the home to the site in two fundamental ways. First, the two narrow wings of the
long house run parallel to the topography of the hillside, complementing the
natural configuration of the land. And the line where the two wings meet and the
long house seems to bend? It aligns with due east.

That east/west centerline -- Jackson calls it "a fold in the geometry of the
house" -- is both the functional and metaphorical balance point of the home.
That's where Jackson placed the front door, which opens into a large two-story
center room. The north and south walls of that central room align exactly to the
sunrise and sunset extremes of the winter and summer solstices in Austin's
latitude (which is 26 degrees north of east in summer and 26 south of east in
winter). The east and west walls feature two-story windows.

"The space makes an event of seasonal sunrise and sunset shadows across the room
because the architecture works with the movement of the sun," says Jackson.

In the south wing are the master bedroom and study. In the north wing are
children's rooms, a guest room, a family room and kitchen. A striking catwalk
intersects the central room, connecting the two halves of the house.

Jackson did all the aligning of the house the old-fashioned way: by finding the
North Star. "Once you've made something align east to west, you've also made a
connection to the north and south symmetry," explains Jackson. "And in this
house we've worked that into controlling the heat of the Texas sun."

A gigantic roof overhang to the north side of the eastern fold line shades the
windows of the central room from the fierce summer sun. By contrast, the winter
morning sun can enter and provide some passive solar warmth. And Jackson
arranged the windows in the narrow house to take advantage of our prevalent
southeasterly winds, making the house comfortable, sans air conditioning, in
mildly hot weather.

As for building materials, Jackson kept the palette simple, using oak and native
limestone, banding the walls every four feet to suggest the layering of rock
that one sees in road cuts throughout the Texas Hill Country.

"In some ways, the house is a bit like a giant sundial," says Jackson, who adds
that he hopes the clients identify the unique alignment shadows as they move
across the floor on special days such as birthdays and anniversaries.

"I wouldn't have warped the design of the house just to have this connection to
nature," Jackson says, whose practice involves more commercial work than
residential. "We just had an extraordinary site and a great way to make the
house connect with the annual, monthly and daily cycle of the sun. It's a
tremendous way of being in nature."

jvanryzin@statesman.com; 445-3699

Robert Jackson Architects

472-5132, rjack67820@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOP: A catwalk connects the two wings of the second floor., ABOVE:
Robert Jackson Architects situated the front entrance, augmented with a rock
pool, on the line where the two wings of the house meet., LEFT: To complement
the site, Jackson designed the basic shape of the house to fit the bending
topography and built the house 200 feet down the hillside from the road. // TOP:
A cozy second-floor study opens up to the two-story central room and connects
via a catwalk to the other wing of the house., MIDDLE: The main living area
opens up to easterly views complete with a large patio and infinity-edge pool.,
BOTTOM: Its walls aligned with the sunrise and sunset extremes of the winter and
summer solstice, the central room frames the seasonal changes in the sky.Greg
Hursley photos

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               55 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 17, 2002, Saturday

Yemeni leaders learn Cedar Park's ways
Visitors get a look at how democracy works

BYLINE: Laura Heinauer, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 977 words


CEDAR PARK -- When American and Middle Eastern minds met to discuss city
government in this Austin suburb Friday, newly elected Yemeni officials got a
lesson on how local governments work in Texas as well as an introduction to the
Cedar Park way of life.

"This is a unique opportunity for you to learn about our city and our culture .
. . and the small-town feeling we cherish in Cedar Park," Mayor Bob Young said
in his introduction to the group of Yemeni local government leaders.

"It's good for us to come together and talk about the differences we have," said
Williamson County Commissioner Greg Boatright.

Also attending the meeting were other Cedar Park council members and city staff
members, many of whom were dressed in red, white and blue.

Organizers said the visit, part of the U.S. Department of State's International
Visitor Program, is intended to share administrative, political and
organizational skills.

"Yemen has had a real image problem in the past," said Pam Mohamed, program
officer for the International Hospitality Council of Austin, the delegates'
local host on their nationwide tour.

Democracy at the local level is quite new for Yemen; the delegates said it was
common in the recent past for rural residents who wanted a road or other
infrastructure built to kidnap foreigners to force the central government to
meet their needs.

Program participant Fatima Huraibi-Hassen, secretary general of the Tahrer
Square local council in the San'a Governorate, said much of that has changed,
but guidance is still needed.

"These new councils have really helped change that, but things are still
difficult for us here, there, everywhere in Yemen," she said as she left the
meeting, carrying a copy of the Cedar Park City Charter.

Huraibi-Hassen said the thing that surprised her most was learning that Cedar
Park was incorporated in 1973.

"I couldn't believe you could just get together and form a city like that," she
said. "In Yemen, it's not that way."

The group arrived in Austin on Wednesday evening and spent Thursday with several
of that city's department heads, but this was the first scheduled meeting in
Texas with elected officials.

In addition to asking how Cedar Park pays for its services and programs, handles
residents' requests and deals with crime, the Yemeni council members wanted to
know about Texas' capital punishment law and what role political parties play in
city governments.

"We're one of the only elected offices that's nonpartisan," Council Member Cory
Shields said, explaining how council members in Cedar Park are elected for
two-year terms.

Several delegation members also asked why all the local Texas government
representatives at Friday's meeting were white men. Council members explained
that one of their colleagues, Tina Collier, was unable to attend the meeting and
said that other women have served in the past, and the previous mayor was black.
Six of the 15 Yemeni delegates were women.

During the exchange, Cedar Park council members also got some questions of their
own answered, including whether the local governments have any real authority.

"On paper, yes," several members of the delegation answered through their
interpreter, Mohammed Shaheen. "We are still developing. We are still in
kindergarten."

The delegates began their trip to the United States in Washington and will visit
cities across the country. Mohamed said such exchange programs are seen as far
more than educational and cultural opportunities.

"They're touted as one of the best long-range investments the U.S. government
can make," she said.

Yemen was the site of the USS Cole bombing in 2000, and members of al Qaeda are
believed to be operating in some tribal regions.

For Huraibi-Hassen, the experience seems to have had at least one desired
effect.

"I wish all Yemeni people could do this," she said. "Many of us think of
Americans as hostile, how all they want to do is kill us and drop bombs. I
realized here that despite the foreign policy, the people are very nice."

Cedar Park leaders left with similar feelings of confidence about the new
relationship.

"I hope we've been able to provide information to help this young democracy,"
Council Member Bob Lemon said. "Hopefully we can partner up with one of these
cities and become sister cities so we can continue to share our experiences with
each other."

lheinauer@statesman.com; 246-1150

(from box)

Yemen facts

Population: 18,078,035 (July 2001 est.)

Area: 527,970, slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming

Location: At the "heel" of the Arabian Peninsula, on one of the world's most
active shipping lanes (Bab el Mandeb, the strait linking the Red Sea and the
Gulf of Aden)

Climate: Mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in western
mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot, dry, harsh desert
in east

Ethnic groups: Predominantly Arab, but also Afro-Arab, South Asians, Europeans

Capital: Sanaa

Government type: Republic

Legal system: Based on Islamic law, Turkish law, English common

Gross Domestic Product: $14.4 billion (2000 est.)

Currency: Yemeni rial

History: Yemen used to be two countries, separated north and south. Political
differences caused two decades of hostility between the states and resulted in
hundreds of thousands of Yemeni refuges as people fled the Marxist-dominated
south to the north.

The two countries were unified in 1990 and a southern secessionist movement
failed four years later. Today there are over 12 political parties active in
Yemen; some of the more prominent are General People's Congress; Islamic Reform
Grouping or Islah; National Arab Socialist Baath Party; Nasserite Unionist
Party; Yemeni Socialist Party.

Source: The Central Intelligence Agency's World Fact Book at www.cia.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Imtenan Al-Wadhwahi of the U.S. Department of State records a meeting
Friday at the Cedar Park Library, where Cedar Park officials explain
administration and politics at the local level to their counterparts from Yemen.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               56 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 17, 2002, Saturday

Accounting majors see saucy side of a profession rocked by scandal

BYLINE: Erik Rodriguez, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 912 words


Students had a textbook, but the best lessons in Barbara Cassidy's accounting
class came from real life.

Last spring, Cassidy, an assistant business dean at St. Edward's University,
supplemented the book's chapters on corporate responsibility with recent
newspaper clippings about Enron Corp., Arthur Andersen and other companies
caught in a wave of accounting scandals.

"I had new material every day out of the Wall Street Journal to give to my
students to teach and talk about," she said. "It's the best ongoing case study I
ever had."

Across the nation, universities are retooling their business courses, offering
specialized accounting classes, revamping business curriculum and placing a
newfound emphasis on ethics. In Central Texas, university administrators say
they're using current events to teach accounting, and a national fraud
organization based in Austin is urging universities to launch courses about
fraud investigation.

The changes come amid a gloomy climate for the accounting profession. Earlier
this week, President Bush sought to reassure investors angry about corporate
fraud and shrinking retirement plans during an economic forum at Baylor
University. On Friday, the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy, the group
that regulates the state's accounting profession, revoked Arthur Andersen's
license.

Nationally, student interest in accounting has been declining. Since 1997, the
number of students enrolled in accounting degree programs has dropped 25
percent. In 2000, less than 1 percent of U.S. high school students considered a
career in accounting, according to a study by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants.

But this year may be different. This fall, students at the University of
California at Irvine and Washington and Lee universities can take business
classes examining the fall of Enron. Harvard Law School will offer a class on
the issues facing corporate executives. And colleges all over the country are
hosting ethics and accounting lectures. Final statistics on fall enrollments
aren't available, but university officials expect that a bounty of new students
will enter the profession.

"From what we've heard, we're almost convinced there's a big swing upward in the
number of new (accounting) entrants," said Steve Goldfarb, a spokesman for the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

Central Texas is no exception. At the McCombs School of Business at the
University of Texas, accounting program applicants jumped nearly 30 percent this
year, to 585. A bad economy and the business school's strong reputation have
helped keep interest high, UT officials said. The school's accounting programs
have ranked first in the nation for the past eight years, according to Public
Accounting Report, a trade publication.

"As entry-level employees are laid off, they look to a graduate program in
accounting to retool," said Richard Joseph, director of the master's of public
accounting programs.

About 35 graduate students have already signed up for a course in fraud
accounting. For undergraduates, the university offers "Problems in Accounting,"
an independent study class. The department is planning guest lecturers and
symposiums on business accounting and ethics, Joseph said.

Another UT business professor, Larry Leibrock, spent the summer teaching courses
on how to track evidence of fraud on computers at universities in Mexico, Berlin
and Hawaii. More than 400 people attended a similar class at the law school in
February. Students and professionals are showing more interest, thanks to cases
such as Enron, he said.

"Increasingly, I think we're going to see corporate investigations, we're going
to talk about the forensic analysis of digital information," Leibrock said.

Southwest Texas State University won't offer new accounting classes this fall,
but professors have been using the recent corporate scandals as case studies,
said Denise Smart, dean of the College of Business Administration. University
officials also plan to incorporate recent events into the college's curriculum,
which will be revised in the coming months.

Other schools, including St. Edward's, will be offering fraud courses with the
help of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners. The Austin-based
organization is offering free textbooks, materials and supplies to universities
that provide a class on fraud examination. Already, more than 40 institutions,
including the universities of Wyoming, Kansas and Kentucky, have signed on.

Demand has been so high that the group is having to reprint the course textbook,
said Helen Clem, who helps coordinate the program.

Media coverage also might have played a role in generating student interest in
accounting, said Cassidy, the St. Edward's dean. Accounting program enrollments
at St. Edward's had been declining, but this fall all available courses will be
full, she said.

"It kind of reminded me that publicity, whether it's bad or good, brings more
attention to the major," said Cassidy, who noted the university specializes in
ethics and already requires accounting students to take an ethics class.

Matthew Last, a junior at UT, will be taking his first accounting course this
fall.

"It's more appealing now; it's not dry," he said. "It seems like something
interesting can happen in the profession. I was wondering if it would be boring
or tedious, but now it's not."

erodriguez@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               58 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 28, 2002, Saturday

Believe it or not, the '03 Honda Accord just got better

BYLINE: Pete Szilagyi

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 769 words


My dad is famous for killing cars. Not violently, just through slow torture.
Change the oil? You gotta be kidding. Why even check it?

Over the years, this otherwise cultured, sophisticated man has

whupped up on a Jeep or two, a Renault, a couple of Volkswagens, a Honda Accord
and various Dodges.

He sold some before they had a chance to whimper, but only one survived for the
long term -- a red mid-'70s Accord sedan. In the end it was leprosied by rust
and running on treadless, half-flat tires, but the Accord started and ran
enthusiastically, bright-eyed and ready for another day of neglect.

Word has spread, and the Accord has been America's first or second best-selling
car for 10 years.

This month dealers begin receiving the latest Accord generation: the seventh and
the first to be truly user-friendly in every respect. The 2003 Accord is a
significant leap ahead for a product that was already special.

Look at the sheet metal, for example. Vestiges of the Accord's conservative,
committee-designed styling are detectable, but the lines are graceful and
modern, even daring. Narrowed panel gaps and flush-mounted glass are among
visual cues that say luxury. The '03 Accord may not be beautiful, but it's darn
pretty.

Inside, the Accord is as roomy as before, with snug three-across seating in the
rear. Now the colors and materials appear to have been selected by an artful
eye, and fewer seams clutter the dashboard design. Even less expensive Accord
trim levels share this visual largesse.

A V-shaped panel in the middle of the instrument panel houses reconfigured
climate and radio controls, with buttons and knobs that can be operated without
taking eyes from the road.

Two of my pet gripes about Accords have been addressed. The front seats have
gone from merely acceptable to extremely comfortable, and they're higher off the
ground and easier to get in and out of. And distracting traffic noise stays
outside.

The '03 Accords can be outfitted with several new extra-cost gadgets, including
a slick voice-operated, DVD-based, navigation system, a side curtain air bag and
six-disc CD changer.

Though capable enough in the last Accord, the mechanical pieces underneath have
been updated and retuned for a firmer ride and steering. The handling and ride
are, dare I say, Audi-like. That conclusion comes after diverting the Accord LX
test unit to roads long neglected by repaving crews.

Accord's two engines, a standard 2.4-liter four-cylinder and optional
three-liter V-6, are essentially carried over from the previous model but power
has been enhanced by the latest variable valve technology.

The V-6, a $2,700 indulgence in Accord LX trim, now has a rollicking 240
horsepower -- 40 more horsepower than the top engines in such macho iron as the
Chevy Monte Carlo and Pontiac Grand Prix.

Up seven percent in power, the four-cylinder engine produces an ample 160
horsepower, which feels like a six.

For 2003, Accord prices are up about 1.37 percent on average, but equipment
levels are also up, Honda says. As before, Accord models are priced from the
mid-high teens to almost $30,000 for all the frosting.

Over the seven generations, the Accord has become increasingly American.

It has been manufactured in Ohio for some time, of course, but now most of the
design is done Stateside, too.

The American fetish for market share was also behind the Accord's costly
redesign. Toyota's exceptional Camry and the heady Nissan Altima are proving to
be worthy competition for the Accord, and the sexy Mazda 6, already receiving
champagne toasts in Europe, enters the United States later this year.

Pete Szilagyi answers questions about cars by e-mail at petesz@mac-

connect.com. An archive of past columns is at www.drivingwithpete.com.

Consumer information

for the 2003 Honda Accord LX sedan

Base price: $20,250 (with automatic transmission, four-cylinder engine and side
airbags)

Options on test vehicle: None

Freight: $460

Total: $20,710

Approximate state tax, title, license: $1,415

Sample financing: $4,425 down (20 percent), balance financed for 48 months at 7
percent. Monthly payments $424.

EPA mileage estimates: 24 city, 33 highway

Safety equipment: Front air bags, side air bags, anti-lock brakes standard

Drive: Front wheels

Where made: Marysville, Ohio

Consumer information is provided by Honda and a credit union. Payments are based
on prevailing rate for a 48-month new car loan.

Summary

Lows: There'll be 10 others in your neighborhood

Highs: Accord reborn as bon vivant

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Feeling the competitive heat from the Altima and Camry, the
seventh-generation Honda Accord is updated with more room, more comfort and more
power.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               60 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 15, 2002, Tuesday

AOL's new software marks return of focus on existing members
Company hopes to prevent an exodus of customers to rivals

BYLINE: Shelley Emling, NEW YORK BUREAU

SECTION: Business; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 482 words


NEW YORK -- With the launch of its new software today, America Online Inc. hopes
to reach out to a new audience: its own.

AOL executives admit that during the Internet's heyday, they were so busy trying
to snag multimillion-dollar ad deals that they lost sight of their members, now
35 million strong.

But now, with parent company AOL Time Warner Inc.'s stock price in the gutter,
executives insist that they're back on track.

Given the anemic advertising climate, they say AOL is focused on the 80 percent
of revenue it gets from online subscriptions rather than the frenetic courting
of new members.

And they say AOL's new 8.0 service is so geared toward members that it's exactly
what's needed to stop dial-up customers from defecting to increasingly
aggressive rival providers.

The most feared: Microsoft's MSN, which unveils its own improved MSN 8 service
on Oct. 24. Some analysts say the new MSN is equal to AOL, and it's cheaper.

For months, AOL has been seeking to regain its footing in the face of a
management shake-up, slowing dial-up subscriber growth and poor morale among
many of its 18,000 employees.

In addition, a new report from Merrill Lynch & Co. warns that revenue from AOL
subscriptions could plummet 72 percent to $235 million over the next two years
as subscribers turn to competing high-speed services.

Jonathan Miller, the new chief executive of AOL, aims to boost AOL's 4 million
broadband subscribers with 8.0, which he calls the company's most important
product launch to date.

"We are out to win the broadband business," said Miller, who replaced Bob
Pittman in August.

AOL has made 165 changes to its service.

It includes more personalization features, allowing users to customize instant
e-mail messages with images and sounds.

It also sweeps away annoying pop-up ads while at the same time giving hope to
the division's bottom line.

For example, the new service includes such features as a $3.95-a-month service
that lets members know who is phoning when they're logged on.

A "MatchChat" feature allows members to immediately locate chat partners who are
discussing favorite topics as soon as they log on.

Finally, the new service is designed to coax users onto broadband with enhanced
audio and video offerings such as CD-quality radio.

Although analysts agree that the new service should help offset increased churn
at the dial-up level, they're less optimistic that 8.0 will bolster AOL's stock
price.

"What Wall Street is looking for is improved business fundamentals," said
Frederick Moran, an analyst at Jefferies & Co., adding that 8.0 will do little
to stimulate demand.

Increasingly, angry investors are blaming the AOL division for the nearly 70
percent decline in stock price since AOL and Time Warner merged in January 2001.
The shares closed Monday at $11.32.

semling@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               61 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 17, 2002, Thursday

Remember Chile, forget the hype

BYLINE: Jordan McKay, SPECIAL TO THE AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 919 words


Last year, an article headlined "Review Disparages Chilean Wine" in the Santiago
Times began, "The Chilean wine industry was eviscerated late last week by critic
Frank J. Prial in the wine section of The New York Times, one of the world's
most influential newspapers." I wondered where this article ran, the business
section or the police blotter?

If "eviscerated" seems pungent language, it comprises an understandably visceral
reaction to a brutal critique. Prial's drive-by in the Times was harsh, angry in
an almost personal way that the flow of "second rate" wine he'd been sampling
did not live up to the promises the Chilean industry had been making for more
than a decade.

Similarly, critic Steven Tanzer reported a few months later that sampling
hundreds of "tart, short cabernets and chardonnays that smell of canned
asparagus" from Chile was "hard work with relatively paltry payoff."

Realizing that I too was harboring ill will, I decided this collective antipathy
toward the wines of a South American country deserved scrutiny. So I brought up
the matter at an afternoon session with my wine therapist, the same gentle
doctor who helped me overcome my fear of burgundy the year before. We jumped
right in: What were my earliest memories of Chilean wine? Had I had a bad
experience with it when I was young? Through the feverish, twisted back alleys
of memory we raced, with disembodied images of empty bottles and stained teeth
flashing before my eyes.

As the purplish recollections came spilling out, it became apparent that the
anger I felt was, like Prial's, an anger of betrayal. Promises, promises made to
a legion of idealistic, fresh-faced wine drinkers throughout the '90s, were
never kept: "Chilean wine is the next big thing. It has a perfect climate. The
vines are pristine." Lies! Lies!

We bought the wine and we tasted watery, insipid, vegetation. Improvement came
only with a sharp increase in price. A taste of Chilean wine became no more than
a taste of bitter disillusionment!

Whew. Getting those feelings out was amazing. First I yelled, then I cried, and
then I just sat back and breathed with a newfound sense of calm. But merely to
unlock the door was not enough. True healing could take place only by walking
through it. To that end, in the last few months I scheduled a couple of mediated
dinners with Chilean winemakers here in San Francisco. To confront them in
person and taste their wines would be the only way to resolve my feelings.

But it was difficult to be angry with Consuelo Marin, winemaker for Via Santa
Carolina. After all, she's only been winemaker since November of last year
(though she worked at the winery for the past decade), and she speaks with a
deep conviction that shows on her weathered and earnest face. When I mentioned
to her that for many, Chile was a land of promises unkept, she agreed. "Yes, it
has taken a very long time to get the wines to a good standard," she told me
over some oysters and her 2001 Reserva Chardonnay. "For a long time it was
problems in the vineyards. Then it was having good winemaking equipment. But now
we have these things--new clones, new equipment. Really, this is the beginning."

Well, honesty is a good thing, but it could have saved us all a lot of grief if
that had been the policy of the '90s. However, it's easy to forgive over a wine
with such clearly delineated flavors of pineapple, pear and citrus that sit and
expand in the mouth before gracefully exiting the tongue. I'm not much of a
chardonnay drinker, but this one, with its stainless steel fermentation, kept
its fruitiness and juicy acidity. For about $10, it's a good wine for the price.
I enjoyed the Santa Carolina merlot, another $10 special, more than the
carmenere or the cabernet.

But what I found most satisfying was the winemaker's attitude and passion for
the improvement of her country's wines. If Chilean wines have in the past lacked
soul, Consuelo Marin may be the person to supply it.

The other winemaker I met was Matias Lecaros of Via Carmen. While Mr. Lecaros, a
young and cheerful man, didn't express such deep emotion as Ms. Marin, his wines
were even better. His 2001 chardonnay was also clean and bright, its fruit
unbound by the burden of excessive oak. A $12 bargain, this was a wine I kept
returning to, even after being offered more expensive ones. I was duly impressed
with Lecaros' Nativa line, wines made from organically grown grapes, a rarity in
Chile. At about $15 a bottle, the cabernet and chardonnay were both delicious,
the unique chardonnay melding flavors of rich fruit with a deep earthiness that
I loved.

Lecaros declared that he too was determined to improve Chile's international
standing, saying that "in the past the wines did not live up to the talk. The
potential of my country is only now starting to be realized."

"Thank you," I said, a sweet flavor of vindication cleansing my palate, "for
admitting that."

jordan_mackay@hotmail.com

Wine of the week

Chateau de Chamirey Mercurey 2000

From the town of Mercurey in Burgundy's Cote Chalonnaise, this wine has a pithy
nose of black fruits, cherry and milk chocolate. Spicy and ripe, black cherry
and chocolate flavors are carried by a supple and smooth texture that would make
an excellent accompaniment for anything from roasted turkey to leg of lamb. More
rustic than a Burgundy of higher pedigree, this is the kind of wine I love as
the days get shorter and leaves start falling from the trees.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               62 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 18, 2002, Friday

Count on these10
With dishes from achiote buffalo to chocolate soup, Austin's top restaurants
make every meal an adventure

SECTION: XL Dining Guide; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2350 words


1. Hudson's on the Bend

3509 RM 620 North; 266-1369

This is a restaurant with "terroir," a place like a great vineyard where the
soil, climate and cultural tradition are evident on the plate.

The pre-eminent dining spot of the Southwest, Hudson's on the Bend is a showcase
for the Texas Hill Country through the entrancing work of proprietor-chef Jeff
Blank and executive chef Becky Barsch Fischer.

They begin with game, which reflects the importance of hunting in the area's
past and its role as a popular pastime today, and then harvest the herbal and
vegetable identifiers of place, such as the Mexican mint marigold that infuses
one of the mustards.

All of those elements converge in the Hill Country antipasto plate, an appetizer
for two featuring four smoked treats: cured boar tenderloin coated with ancho
rub; peppercorn-crusted antelope; achiote-marinated buffalo; and salmon brined
in a brown sugar-ancho mix.

Thin slices of each game encircle a mound of vegetables that have been treated
to a relatively quick pickling process. The dish is finished with wedges of
pumpkin-flavored flatbread and small mounds of plum chutney, mango-habanero
sauce and Mexican

mint marigold mustard.

There is such a variety of tastes and textures on this plate that a diner could
walk away satiated after the single dish. But that's almost impossible to do
when you can follow it with the luscious salads and entrees (such as the wild
boar schnitzel or the prime

Angus ribeye) that help make Hudson's on the Bend the top place to dine in
Central Texas. * * * * *

2. Driskill Grill

604 Brazos St.; 474-5911

Bucking the trends of a tough year, the Driskill saw its business grow without
cutting corners or prices to bring in customers.

While it is one of the most expensive dining establishments in Central Texas,
you get what you pay for: exquisite food with sophisticated style from executive
chef David Bull.

Bull, who was the youngest sous chef ever at Dallas' Mansion on Turtle Creek
before coming to the Driskill three years ago, has a deft touch, as demonstrated
by dishes such as the foie gras appetizer and red snapper entree.

The foie gras is served tower-style, with a hash-brown potato base surrounded by
a sauterne wine-peach puree. The base is topped with bourbon peaches, the
lightly seared liver and pepper mache (a baby green) dressed with a bit of olive
oil, a combination of bitter and sweet elements that plays perfectly against the
deep resonance of the foie gras.

The snapper dish begins with a tomato-basil sauce that rings a mound of
lemon-artichoke risotto on which the lightly seared red snapper rests. It is
topped with two entwined, grilled shrimp and a salad that combines crisp fried
angel hair pasta with shredded radicchio, arugula and fennel.

Food like that befits the elegant setting of the Driskill Grill. Part of the
massive restoration of the historic Driskill Hotel at Sixth and Brazos streets,
the restaurant is a step back in time, with dark wood paneling and etched glass
that revive a 19th-century ambiance. * * * * *

3. Cafe at the Four Seasons

98 San Jacinto Blvd.; 478-4500

One of the best hotels in the United States (No. 68 in the world, according to
Conde Nast Traveler), the Four Seasons Hotel has a challenge: how to convince
Austinites that its cafe is as worthy a fine-dining venue as any steakhouse or
independent restaurant.

Clearly, fabulous food alone can't do it. If that's all it took, the Cafe at the
Four Seasons would be full night after night.

The Four Seasons' Elmar Prambs has long been one of the top chefs in Austin,
guiding a talented staff in producing creative dishes season after season.

That seasonal success this year includes the braised duck ravioli appetizer,
with its pasta pillows filled with tender diced fowl and resting on shredded
celeriac and wilted spinach in a cream sauce garnished with threads of fried
beets.

The lamb entree features three thick chops over a caramelized bean cassoulet
with an English pea and mint foam, with the wintery cassoulet and the summery
mint forming a season-melding bowl.

Desserts, the work of pastry chef Tony Sansalone, match the rest of the
impressive meal, especially when it's a show-stopper like the chocolate
macadamia cone.

The cone, which rests point up on several slices of caramelized banana, is
filled with a macadamia nut mousse and covered in dark chocolate drizzled with
white chocolate. A golden lariat of spun sugar circles the amazing confection.

* * * * *

4. Zoot

509 Hearn St.; 477-6535

The food is marked by extensive preparation which takes Zoot beyond most
restaurants in Austin.

The small American bistro subtly manipulates flavors and uses multistep
techniques to produce exceptional plates, such as the oyster and sweetbread
appetizers and the duck entree.

Dredged in chick pea flour, the oysters are fried quickly in hotter-than-normal
oil to create a crisp skin. The extra touch comes with the accompaniments: an
aioli made with a saffron-vermouth reduction and julienned daikon radishes and
cucumbers marinated in a rice-wine vinaigrette.

The sweetbreads, seared in a cast-iron skillet until golden, are served with a
porcini mushroom cream and garnished with shaved asparagus salad that includes
diced tomatoes and micro-greens tossed with lemon oil.

The duck breast is fanned around a mound of basmati rice cooked in chicken stock
and northern Indian chai made with green tea steeped with almonds. It is
accompanied by baby bok choy and a cardamon-cassis vinegar reduction sauce
lightly sweetened with honey.

Those sorts of details aren't lost on Zoot's talented servers, who work
seamlessly as a team and who bring their knowledge to the table, describing and
clarifying the small points for their guests.

Zoot, a small, classy bistro with romantic appeal, continues to excel. It's as
fine-tuned as any restaurant in Central Texas.

* * * * *

5. Wink

1014 N. Lamar Blvd.; 482-8868

The impromptu, unpredictable nature of dishes that employ the day's best
offerings of meat, seafood and produce make chef-owner Stuart Scruggs'
establishment a surprise each time a menu is placed in your hands.

That's because Scruggs changes the menu at Wink daily, based on the fresh
ingredients that are available.

One of his exquisite dishes is a grilled lamb loin prepared to a juicy, tender,
medium-rare stage. Although it doesn't need any enhancement, a delicious
grapefruit-fennel sauce, braised hearts of palm and haricots verts are welcome
additions on the plate.

Scruggs also purchases greens and vegetables from the Chef's Garden, an Ohio
farm that caters to some of the best restaurants in the nation. He uses a small
mound of greens encircled by five cherry tomato halves, dollops of goat cheese
and a wonderful lemongrass-sauternes sabayon dressing to produce a showcase
dish.

Those who dine at the sophisticated, minimalist Wink should plan on dessert, the
must-have creations of Mark Paul.

His lemon tart features a meringue crust that holds a creamy lemon curd topped
with whipped cream, candied lemon peel and fresh berries.

But his chocolate soup is magical. The bittersweet chocolate broth holds three
mounds of milk chocolate mousse infused with Earl Grey tea and ginger. It is one
of the two best chocolate desserts of the past year. * * * *

6. Aquarelle

606 Rio Grande St.; 479-8117

In the face of the economic slowdown, Aquarelle made adjustments in the past
year, such as eliminating a full bar in favor of beer and wine.

But a diner would never know by looking at the menu (other than the moderate
price reduction). It is still packed with complex dishes that marry grace and
artistry.

An example is the three-way oysters, a half-dozen shellfish presented in three
styles on the half shell.

Two are topped with a classic sabayon sauce, a pair with charon sauce (a
bearnaise with tomato) and two with a sorrel cream sauce drizzled with a tomato
buerre blanc. From the sweet sabayon to the bitter sorrel, each brings a
distinct and wonderful experience to the palate.

From the entrees, the filet of beef is captivating. The tender, thick,
delicious, pan-seared filet, served with spinach, asparagus spears and a black
truffle-Madeira wine sauce, is featured in a tower formation, with duck foie
gras on top and a toasted crouton underneath.

Designs like that helped Aquarelle reach an important milestone last summer: its
two-year anniversary.

That was a tribute to the hard work of two longtime local restaurant hands
Teresa Wilson and Robert Brady who are shepherding the classical French spot
that is as good today as the week it opened. * * * *

7. Emilia's

600 E. Third St.; 469-9722

This restaurant soared under former chef Will Packwood, who brought it national
acclaim as one of Food & Wine magazine's top 10 young chefs in America in 2001.

But when he left abruptly in early 2002, foodies wondered whether Emilia's could
preserve its image and its quality.

Look no further than the beet salad, nine thin squares of candy-striped and
yellow beets laid on the plate like a marble floor, with a tiny currant tomato
centered on each root-vegetable tile.

Micro-greens, a miniature-scale salad of herbs and lettuce, are tossed in a
lightly truffled vinaigrette and scattered across the beets, completing the
strikingly beautiful salad.

These elements demonstrate that the kitchen, under executive chef Chris Lanier,
can produce creative, captivating fare.

That's good news for owner Denis Tracy, who invested heavily in the compound of
historic buildings that now forms Emilia's: a main building converted into a
restaurant, a carriage house transformed into a bar and a Sunday house turned
into a private dining room.

Even the chicken was a feast to behold the dish consists of a grilled breast and
a deboned, roasted leg stuffed with ham and herb mousse and wrapped with thinly
sliced bacon, served over whipped potatoes with a ragu of English peas, fava
beans, baby carrots and mushrooms, with a garnish of shaved artichokes. * * * *

8. Jeffrey's

1204 West Lynn St.; 477-5584

For 26 years, diners have filled Jeffrey's, regardless of the menu prices or the
economy.

It doesn't hurt that two of its former regulars George and Laura Bush have
boosted the restaurant's national profile and encouraged the launching of a
second Jeffrey's a year ago in Washington's Watergate Hotel.

The restaurant, owned by Ron and Peggy Weiss and Jeffrey Weinberg, lives up to
its reputation with the food of executive chef David Garrido, who has been at
Jeffrey's 13 years, and his chef de cuisine, Alma Alcocer-Thomas, who has been
there eight.

They combine textures as easily as they mix ingredients in appealing ways.

In the arugula salad, for example, crunchy toasted almonds and smooth pearl
couscous top the baby greens, along with marinated onions and a honey-almond
vinaigrette whose sweetness complements the slightly bitter arugula.

The pork tenderloin is stuffed with chopped shrimp, spinach, dry and regular
ricotta cheeses and herbs. It is fanned in a pool of mustard-peppercorn sauce
and accompanied by a warm fingerling potato salad and a bundle of colorful,
sauteed vegetables.

Those dishes form a pattern that encourages repeat dining, one of the reasons
Austinites return to Jeffrey's again and again.

* * * *

9. Vespaio

1610 S. Congress Ave.; 441-6100

Virtual wisps of pasta, the cloudlike gnocchi simply evaporate in the mouth. A
plump little potato dumpling coated in tomato-meat sauce, it is there one
moment, gone the next, leaving behind an enormous bite of pleasure.

The connoisseur at the table sighs, stabs another gnocchi, pops it in his mouth
and sighs again. Gustatory contentment spreads over him faster than butter
across a hot plate. And that is no easy feat pleasing someone who had spent the
past few months in Italy consuming pound after pound of his favorite pasta.

But Vespaio pulls it off beautifully, with a daily special of gnocchi, made from
scratch at the restaurant, in a spiced tomato sauce with housemade sausage and
roasted chicken.

Besides gnocchi, there are plenty of other delectable dishes to please the
hordes of customers who make Vespaio one of the most popular restaurants in the
city.

One of those is the Cape Sante scallops, which rest in a fabulous Pernod-Gruyere
cream sauce with a caramelized onion-potato tartlet and haricots verts.

The force behind the restaurant is chef-owner Alan Lazarus, who four years ago
ignored skeptical advisers and opened a fine-dining restaurant on South Congress
Avenue.

It immediately became hallowed culinary ground, and it remains that way today. *
* * *

10. Castle Hill

1101 W. Fifth St.; 476-0728

One of the most unpreposessing chefs in the city, David Dailey consistently
produces a melange of flavors that meld flawlessly at Castle Hill Cafe.

It is evident in his "voodoo shrimp," where the coconut-crusted, fried shrimp
are the focal point of a complex dish.

The shellfish are plied with a Caribbean "voodoo" sauce that echoes the sweet
strains of the shellfish through the fresh mangos, apricots, raisins and coconut
milk that went into it. A habanero sauce drizzled on the rim of the large bowl
provides the option of turning up the heat.

Topped with a lime puree, the shrimp (now served as an appetizer) nestle in the
dish with a papaya relish and a fried banana pone.

"I try to extract as big a flavor as I can out of a dish," Dailey says.

To do that, he frequently dissects classical dishes and reassembles the
ingredients in unexpected ways to create his plates. But uppermost in that
process is flavor, not appearance. "It's all about how the food tastes," he
says.

Add that attitude to a mature waitstaff that is one of the best in the city, and
it makes Castle Hill a wonderfully comfortable place to dine, a feeling that
Dailey likens to putting on an old slipper.

"If you feel that way when you come to Castle Hill," he says, "I'm doing my
job." * * * *

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Hill Country antipasto plate at Hudson's on the Bend, with cured
boar tenderloin, peppercorn-crusted antelope, marinated buffalo and brown
sugar-ancho salmon. // The Driskill Grill makes its five-star mark with an
elegant hotel setting and a snapper dish in tomato-basil sauce with
lemon-artichoke risotto and grilled shrimp. // The success of the Cafe at the
Four Seasons is a testament to the skill of chef Elmar Prambs. //Zoot's
meticulous preparation shines in its crisp, chick pea-dusted oysters with
saffron-vermouth aioli. //Chocolate soup at Wink means bittersweet broth and
milk chocolate mousse with Earl Grey tea and ginger. // Aquarelle is home to
classic French cooking. // The care lavished on the tiled beet salad speaks
volumes at Emilia's. // At Jeffrey's, pork tenderloin is stuffed with shrimp,
spinach, ricotta cheese and herbs. // Chef Alan Lazarus has made a home for
Italian food on South Congress Avenue with Vespaio. // Chef David Dailey's crab
cake appetizer at Castle Hill.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               63 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          October 23, 2002, Wednesday

Endorsements 2002: Texas Senate
Bentzin deserves chance in District 14

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1083 words


When you ask about Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos, the most common response is, "He's
got a big heart." While we agree that he does, the question voters in the
redrawn Senate District 14 face is: Is a big heart enough?

Is a big heart enough, for example, to meet the challenges of a deteriorating
business climate, a clogged transportation system and school districts with
little in common but increased demands of an increasingly diverse student body?

We would like nothing more than to tell you that Barrientos, a Democrat with 28
years of legislative service behind him, has been a leader in transportation
planning, in school finance and job creation.

But we can't. His record of accomplishment, though wide, isn't very deep.
Barrientos has been a staunch advocate for state employees, and his scholarship
fund helps two students in each of the high schools in his district launch their
college careers. It is time for an injection of new blood into the District 14
senate seat. Republican challenger Ben Bentzin embodies the kind of leadership
the reconfigured district needs.

Though an unknown to the public at large, Bentzin is known in high-tech and
philanthropic circles as a tireless worker. His initiative got the Joe and
Teresa Lozano Long Performing Arts Center under construction.

Bentzin is pursuing the Senate seat with the kind of focus with which he pursued
an education and a career. Raised in a single-parent household, Bentzin was
determined to get an education and that determination got him into the
prestigious Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. After that, he
took a flyer on a company that would become a personal computer giant.

It was a high-tech "new" business that got off the ground the old-fashioned way:
Long hours, hard work and dedication. Bentzin is remembered by his Dell
colleagues as a problem-solver and a consensus-builder.

He did well enough to retire young -- at 37 -- and devote his attention full
time to the Senate race. It is the most serious competition Barrientos has faced
since surviving a white-knuckle fight that was the 1984 Democratic primary and
runoff.

During this campaign, Bentzin has been everywhere. His message is simple: Less
government, fewer taxes, better education. While pretty standard, the difference
is in the delivery.

Bentzin has delivered an energetic, issue-oriented campaign. Recently, however,
notice was taken of the video shot when Barrientos, 61, was arrested on a
drunken-driving charge last November. The footage was raw in more ways than one
and may backfire. Nonetheless, Barrientos was arrested, the video is part of the
record and the record is public.

To his credit, Barrientos entered a no-contest plea and put the arrest behind
him quickly. He accepted responsibility and apologized for his behavior, took
his punishment and moved along, but that doesn't change the fact that it
happened.

While the differences between the two men are more style than substance, there
is a big difference in the way each would approach the sensitive issue of
abortion.  Barrientos has been steadfast in his support of a woman's right to
choose. Bentzin's position reflects a lot of ambivalence on the issue.

Barrientos voted against a bill requiring that parents be notified if their
minor daughter seeks an abortion. Bentzin said he would have voted for it. The
bill eventually passed with a compromise allowing for judges to bypass notifying
the parents. The controversy is far from over, and most expect that a bill
requiring parental consent for a minor to have an abortion will be offered next
session.

"My guess would be I would lean in the direction of parents having the right to
give consent, but a lot depends on what's in the bill," Bentzin replied in
response to a question on the issue.

Bentzin's ambivalence reflects that of many who find the issue troubling -- one
that doesn't lend itself to easy or simple answers.

What is plain, however, is that no matter how big his heart, Barrientos'
achievements have been modest. Should he win, as most expect, Barrientos should
work toward propping up that record. He has the personal skills to please a
crowd, but he needs to do the homework to give that crowd something to be
pleased about.

It is not that he is incapable of learning; it's just that he hasn't bothered.
He could and should be a bigger force than he is, mostly because he spends a lot
of time looking back instead of looking forward.

Bentzin would hit the ground running and not look back, and that's why we
recommend him to District 14 voters.

Re-elect Wentworth

The redrawn state Senate District 25 now sprawls north from San Antonio through
Comal and Hays counties and takes in a chunk of South Austin and Travis County.

Republican state Sen. Jeff Wentworth, of San Antonio, has represented the 25th
District since 1993 and should be re-elected. Wentworth, 61, has been an able
and conscientious senator who has fought hard battles in the Legislature, most
recently as chair of the redistricting committee. He paid the price last spring
when he had to survive a vicious primary contest led by GOP conservatives
unhappy with Wentworth's moderate politics.

Wentworth is also having to combat charges by Travis County Attorney Ken Oden
that he engaged in illegal lobbying of state officials on behalf of private
clients. Wentworth insists he breached no ethics laws, but to clear the air he
has pledged not to represent any clients before state agencies in the future.

However the 11th-hour accusations against Wentworth turn out, he has a track
record of integrity in office that can't be overlooked.

He is taking a principled stand that voters should weigh as they consider who to
support. In his years in the Senate, and before that the state House of
Representatives, Wentworth has been the Legislature's strongest advocate on
behalf of the public interest in matters of open government and open records. He
is thoughtful, serious and has realistic proposals for helping ease Texas'
budget crunch, including increasing the gas tax.

Wentworth is being challenged in this heavily Republican district by Democrat
Joseph P. Sullivan, a 72-year-old college professor who has run unsuccessfully
for office in San Antonio several times, and Libertarian Rex Black, 39, a
computer consultant making his first bid for elected office.

Wentworth is clearly the best candidate in the election and should be returned
to the Legislature.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ben Bentzin // Jeff Wentworth

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               64 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 29, 2002, Tuesday

Peace soldier
As the world braces for war, Texas activist CHarlie Jackson is flying to Baghdad
to make a statement against it

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1965 words


Charlie Jackson has this wild idea. He believes that if a mass of people stand
together, defiantly, actively, in moral opposition to war, the most honorable
and humane aspirations of mankind will prevail. It worked in "Lysistrata." It
worked against apartheid. Maybe, just maybe, it will work in Iraq.

Jackson believes in peace activism so strongly, in fact, that he's preparing to
fly to Baghdad -- where he'll spend a month standing in solidarity with the
people of Iraq and those in the world community opposed to a U.S. military
strike against the country. It'll be his first trip to the Middle East. The plan
is for him to leave within the month.

"Most people I know think I'm crazy," says Jackson, who will travel to Iraq
representing Voices in the Wilderness, an American-based humanitarian movement
formed six years ago in opposition to United Nations economic sanctions against
Iraq. "I've been called 'Baghdad Charlie' by my own friends! But I'm doing this
because it needs to be done.

"Some people join the Red Cross. Some people join the Foreign Legion. Some
people join the military. . . . My role is to stand at the forefront of peace
efforts, in bad situations, for other people who feel the same way but, for fear
or personal circumstances, would never consider going to Iraq. Because I can go,
I feel I represent them."

Charlie Jackson sees himself as a peace soldier -- who, like many U.S.
servicemen right now, is preparing for the front lines. But instead of packing a
rifle and fatigues, Jackson will carry aspirin and gauze and children's stickers
and cigarettes -- all to be distributed in Iraq, in a gesture of goodwill. In
terms of personal possessions, he'll be carrying little more than a shaving kit
and a change of clothes and an English-language Quran. (Jackson considered
taking a Bible, but was warned it might send the wrong signal in the current
political climate.)

He's going to Iraq. He's really going. But one would never guess it to look at
the man. On the surface, 43-year-old Charlie Jackson defies almost every
stereotype one might assign to an impassioned anti-war activist. He's affluent,
buttoned-down, impeccably groomed. Before moving to San Antonio last month, he'd
lived in the suburbs of Austin for 12 years. A self-described entrepreneur,
Jackson is a computer software expert well-versed in the language of marketing
and profits.

Jackson is also a divorced father of two boys. His friends are quick to raise
the point, too: How could you leave your children -- one 15, another 11 -- to
travel to a prospective war zone? Why not put your family first and stay home?

"How am I putting my family second by stopping war so that my sons don't end up
being drafted in five years? Or 10 years?" he answers firmly. "This will be the
reality if we (the United States) keep doing things the way we've always done
them. It's not just about my kids, either. It's about their friends. It's about
their friends' friends. It's about kids in other countries.

"I suppose I could say, 'Why not stay home, worry about the business, save money
for a new car next year and let somebody else do it?' The only thing I know is
this: There is no 'someone else.' "

vv

Even as he packs his bags for the Middle East, Charlie Jackson has no idea where
he'll be staying in Baghdad -- whether there will be a "host" family waiting, or
even on what day his journey will begin. Originally scheduled to leave the
United States on Friday, Jackson and the 10-member contingent from Voices in the
Wilderness are stuck in a diplomatic holding pattern, waiting for final visa
approval at a time when the Iraqi government has begun to crack down on the
number of foreign visitors entering the country. Ramadan begins next week,
further complicating the group's travel plans.

Voices in the Wilderness, which has made more than 45 excursions into Iraq, has
one 12-member contingent in the country now. They travel without the blessing of
the U.S. government, which has warned the group since the 1990s that they face
prison sentences or fines for exchanging medicine, toys or goods with Iraqi
people in violation of U.S.-sponsored economic sanctions. Jackson is the only
Texan in the group.

"Presumably, the war will not have started yet when we arrive," he says,
laughing away the uncertainty that awaits him in Iraq. "Baghdad's a big city,
you know, with cybercafes on the corner. We'll probably find a Starbucks and go
have some coffee. . . .

"Until I actually meet and visit with people who are there -- and understand
what the needs are -- I'd hate to guess ahead of time. I mean, if I get placed
with a farming family, I'll probably be out back with a hoe."

This will not be the first time Jackson has winged it in an international hot
spot. He traveled to the Balkans, twice, during the 1990s when the former
Yugoslavia was at the height of a religious and ethnic war. In the summer of
1993, he joined a bus caravan of 2,000 international peace activists intent on
wedging themselves between warring factions in Bosnia-Herzegovina. He returned
in early 1996, trekking alone, to visit the shattered husks of Sarajevo and
Tuzla.

"I remember sitting at home in Austin, watching the Bosnia thing on TV, and I
finally realized: 'I'm an adult now!' The world is my responsibility at this
point. It was time to put up or shut up. If I really wanted to make the world a
better place, I was old enough to do something about it, to become active, and
not depend on someone else to do it for me. Especially when you see horrors in
living, three-dimensional color, people being sent away to prison camps, raped
and tortured."

Jackson's tales of Yugoslavia are both harrowing and darkly comical. His
reminiscence of the 1993 bus caravan -- in which fewer than 100 of the original
2,000 peace activists made it from Split to Sarajevo without turning back or
being turned away -- sounds like "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World" populated by
peaceniks.

"We had Buddhists from Japan, clerks from Norway, rabbis from the Middle East.
We had 150 buses and vehicles in a giant caravan, winding through the mountains.
It was organized by Italian priests . . . and the Italians aren't the best when
it comes to organization . . . which frustrated the Germans and Norwegians to no
end. Imagine 'Woodstock goes to Sarajevo.' It was hilarious," says Jackson,
recalling the experience while sipping coffee at an Austin cafe. "No one wanted
us there at all. The United Nations was against us. The military was against us.
The Red Cross was against us. The Bosnians were against us. Everyone was against
us."

Fearful that they might be massacred if the caravan continued on to Sarajevo,
several busloads of activists broke away from the pack. Jackson's group wound up
in the embattled city of Mostar, "where aid agencies had refused to go." In
town, they encountered scores of local citizens imprisoned in barbed-wire pens
by occupying forces. At night, they camped in front of the citizens' trucks as a
way to keep the army from stealing them.

By the nature of his own description, Jackson's 1996 experience -- in which he
hitchhiked through a Bosnian war zone to Sarajevo and Tuzla during a January
cease-fire -- borders on reckless and outlandish. Along the way, Jackson says he
hitched rides from both Croatian "thugs" and Serbian military officers. Once, he
remembers, Serbian soldiers approached a bus in which he was riding -- loaded
with Muslims, bound for Sarajevo -- and pounded on the vehicle with the butts of
their rifles.

"At one point, I ended up with a CNN team from England, who took me almost all
the way into Tuzla. They, of all people, were the ones most reluctant to give me
a ride. They were like, 'What are you doing here? . . . you're an idiot!' They
were put out that an American would be doing such a stupid thing."

In Bosnia, Jackson frequently stayed in the homes of local citizens, where he
witnessed the ravages of war and celebrated an Orthodox Christmas in the home of
a Muslim-Serb family. He showed them pictures of his wife and sons, expressed a
hope for peace, tried to communicate in a voice of shared humanity. It's the
same mission -- "this stupid thing" -- he hopes to accomplish in Baghdad.

vv

Shortly after sunset, Charlie Jackson is bustling about the kitchen of his
split-level San Antonio condominium, cooking a pot of gumbo, tearing lettuce for
a salad, chatting with his sons about a missing saxophone that must be found
before a weekend band performance. It is a school night. A father and his sons.
Peace in America.

Before dinner, the Jacksons say grace. They do not talk about Iraq, or the
politics of war and peace. Just a few days more. . . .

"I think my sons have taken this pretty much in stride," the father says a
little later, privately. "To them, it's as if I were a fireman or a policeman.
It's something I do. My oldest actually wants to go with me -- maybe more for
the adventure, not for any philosophical reasons."

In truth, the two boys seem a little shy about the subject as they sit on the
sofa, watching TV. A Christian cross hangs on the wall above them. "I do think
it's sort of cool," says Jay, the older son, a flash of excitement in his eye.
Connor tells of a classmate, the son of soldiers, who came to school crying
after being told that his father and brother would soon be shipped out to the
Persian Gulf. But he doesn't finish the thought, or connect it to his father's
journey of peace. . . .

Jackson admits this journey is inspired by faith -- he's been active in St.
Andrew's Presbyterian Church for the last decade -- while making it clear he
"won't be pushing Bibles into anyone's face" in Iraq. He describes himself as
"broad" in the sense of accepting religions of others, though he's intolerant of
national agendas in the name of God.

"When I see things done in the name of religion, it offends me more horribly
than say, somebody who doesn't care about religion at all," he says. "In Bosnia,
it was 'supposed' Christians massacring Muslims, claiming to be Christians as
they were doing it. And vice versa. . . . In most all of these wars, people who
are seeking a 'spiritual path' are at the same time massacring their brothers
and sisters, which is to me the antithesis of religion."

If all goes according to plan, Charlie Jackson will stay in Baghdad for a month
-- and hopefully make more than a few Iraqi friends. If war breaks out after his
return to the United States, Jackson intends to leave his sons again and live
with besieged Iraqis. His goal is to send a message: that not all American
citizens endorse a pre-emptive bombing campaign, and that some would put their
lives on the line for the sake of Iraqi civilians.

"I ask myself all the time about my motives," says Jackson, pausing to consider
the larger picture. "Do I think I can stop a war? In practical terms, no. Will I
be able to prevent the death of someone there? I doubt it, not with what little
I have. Will I influence foreign policy? Maybe not. But I may influence 10
people back here, who in turn may influence 10 more people in the future.

"I hold no illusions. If 50 Americans stand in the shape of a peace sign in the
center of Baghdad, it won't stop the war. But I also believe that if there is
any plan or organization to this universe, killing one another is not part of
the plan."

For Charlie Jackson, this is something he simply must do. Like a fireman or a
policeman. A soldier of war. A soldier of peace. When the boys go off to bed,
and the lights go dark, Charlie Jackson considers the responsibility of being a
citizen of the world -- and tells himself again he's doing the right thing.

bbuchholz@statesman.com; 912-2967

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Most people I know think I'm crazy,' Charlie Jackson says of his plans
to visit Iraq with the humanitarian group Voices in the Wilderness. The former
Austin resident (he moved to San Antonio last month) joined other peace
activists during a rally at the Capitol on Saturday. // Charlie Jackson speaks
during Saturday's peace rally on the south steps of the Capitol. He says he
knows that his group's planned trip to Iraq next month could not stop a war, but
he hopes that by taking a stand he can influence other people to do the same. //
Jackson says friends have asked him how he can leave sons Connor, 11, and Jay,
15, for a potentially dangerous trip. But one of the motivations for his mission
is concern for his boys' future. // The trip to Iraq will not be the first time
Jackson has traveled in the name of his beliefs. This photo was taken in
Guatemala in 2001 with Mayan children. He's also visited Bosnia to work for
peace.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman


                               65 of 65 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 2, 2002, Monday

Back home
Austin's Legends of Golf gave birth to the Senior PGA Tour. In May, today's golf
legends will be coming . . .

BYLINE: Kevin Robbins, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 999 words


Senior golf returns to Austin next spring with a new name, a new tournament and
a new way of doing things.

The Senior PGA Tour, known now as the Champions Tour, arrives in May for the
first Kinko's Classic of Austin. Organizers have announced a four-day prelude to
the tournament that includes three pro-ams, a junior clinic and a gala before
the 54-hole competition at The Hills Country Club.

Austin golfers Ben Crenshaw and Tom Kite, who compete on the Champions Tour,
will serve as informal hosts for the Kinko's Classic, so the tournament promises
to boast a marquee field. The top players will gather in Austin as a nod to what
Crenshaw and Kite mean to their tour.

Tournament organizers also hope to lure big, enthusiastic galleries by
scheduling a variety of events such as concerts by Austin musicians.

And the tournament carries a sentimental draw for the seniors. Their tour is
native to Austin.

The senior tour rose in 1978 at the Onion Creek Club. Two years after that
inaugural Legends of Golf event, the PGA Tour created the Senior PGA Tour.

"That's where it was born," said 67-year-old Chi Chi Rodriguez. "That's where
the diaper came off."

The tour enjoyed years of popularity, especially as gallery favorites such as
Arnold Palmer, Lee Trevino, Gary Player and Jack Nicklaus still were
competitive. But those days are ending. Now, as the tour enters its third decade
of life, the Champions Tour is figuring out new ways of marketing itself.

The tour already has made changes.

It involves sponsors and fans more by allowing them to serve as honorary
marshals and letting them inside the ropes to follow the leaders on the final
day of play.

Tournament organizers also are reconsidering the structure of tournaments. They
want to appeal to people who care less about golf than they do just having a
good time with their friends. That's why the Kinko's Classic of Austin will
include junior clinics, three pro-ams and, possibly, a full schedule of parties
and concerts.

"It's kind of a seven-day journey into the championship," said Kinko's Classic
sales and marketing director Colby Callaway.

A journey that others have taken to popularity and success.

"The key is to create an event that becomes more than a golf tournament," said
Gene Hallman of the Bruno Event Team in Birmingham, Ala. His tournament, the
Bruno's Memorial Classic, has averaged 125,000 fans and has raised more than
$6.5 million for various charities in its 11 years as a Champions Tour event.

There are advertisements for the tournament a month before the holes are cut in
the greens. The cashiers at Bruno's, a regional grocery chain of about 200
stores, wear buttons bearing the tournament logo. The logo also appears on the
stores' sacks.

"There's no one in Birmingham who can escape being touched by our promotions,"
Hallman said.

Some people go and never make the effort to watch a single golf swing. Hallman
compares the tournament to the tailgating scene before an Alabama-Auburn
football game. He calls it Alabama's version of the Kentucky Derby; people go to
see and be seen.

Pro-am participants have included Bob Hope, Michael Jordan, Steve Spurrier and
Vince Gill.

People who play golf amount to only 15 percent of the gallery, Hallman said.

"It's a social event, first and foremost. It's become an event that's
transcended golf."

Winning combination

Like steel-shafted persimmon drivers and day-glo balls, the old way of
tournament planning seems charmingly quaint.

Prolinks Sports Inc. -- which manages six events on the Champions Tour,
including the new Austin stop -- boasts of organizing the tournament that
donates the most money to charity: the 3M Championship at the TPC of the Twin
Cities in Blaine, Minn.

More than 132,000 people come to the 3M, said Hollis Cavner, a partner with
Prolinks. The 2002 tournament in August raised $1 million for hospitals in
Minneapolis and St. Paul. The designated charity of the Kinko's Classic is First
Tee of Austin, a non-profit group that introduces young people to golf.

"If you made money for charity, you've done your job. That means you've sold
everything you could sell. Your attendance was good. Your corporate hospitality
was good," Cavner said.

At the Minnesota tournament, skins games and shoot-out events entertain the
gallery on the Monday before competition. There's a junior pro-am on Tuesday,
like the one planned for the Kinko's Classic of Austin. Fans frolic at parties
on the grounds. They can take a swing in the $1 million hole-in-one contest.
Bands play all day long and into the night.

"We put on seven days of fun," Cavner said.

The Bruno's and 3M tournaments are favorites among players. They like to see the
large, energetic crowds. The volunteers are happy and helpful. The prize money
-- $1.4 million last year in Alabama and $1.75 million in Minnesota -- is
attractive.

"You want people out there," said Tom Jenkins, a top-20 Champions Tour player
who lives in Austin. "You want a party kind of atmosphere."

Austin meets that standard. It was the loose, jovial atmosphere that made the
Legends of Golf tournaments so popular with fans until the event left in 1994.
The climate in central Texas is ideal for golf. The original Hills Country Club
course, which is easy to walk and features a photogenic series of concluding
holes, will provide equal doses of excitement for fans and challenges for the
players.

"No doubt Austin's going to be one of the more popular spots," said Hale Irwin,
who won the Champions Tour money title last year for the third time in his
career.

Irwin, who joined the senior tour in 1995, noted the factors that make a
successful tournament.

"I look at the community and say, 'Do we have a good venue for the event? Do we
have a community that will get behind it and support it? Is the prize money
there?' "

He thought about it for a moment.

"Austin's got them all."

krobbins@statesman.com; 445-3602

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Austin's Ben Crenshaw, watching a tee shot at the SBC Championship at
San Antonio in October, is largely responsible for helping the bring a Champions
Tour event to The Hills Country Club. // With highly respected Austin residents
Tom Kite, above, and Ben Crenshaw as informal hosts, the Kinko's Classic expects
a top field. // Showing the way: The standard bearer (above) will be a familiar
site when the Kinko's Classic arrives in May // Staying home: Austin golf legend
Ben Crenshaw (in red) and Tom Kite will serve as informal co-hosts for the
event.

                  Copyright 2002 The Austin American Statesman
