
                               8 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 12, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

UT team studies glacier's erosion

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 684 words


A little more than a century after Roald Amundsen became the first person to
reach the South Pole, a University of Texas graduate student and a team of
colleagues have undertaken groundbreaking research into the waters that swish
beneath Antarctica's increasingly vulnerable ice shelves.

Jamin Greenbaum, 34, a researcher in the lab of UT senior research scientist Don
Blankenship, has participated in more than a half-dozen trips to Antarctica,
helping map by air, sea and land the characteristics of ice on a vast portion of
the continent.

Along the way, they have endured temperatures that, at their highest, hover
around freezing - cold enough to freeze beards and nose hair.

The work helps to predict how much global sea levels will rise over the next
century.

Their most recent discovery: The Totten Glacier, East Antarctica's largest, is
vulnerable to erosion by deep, warm waters, potentially leading to important ice
loss.

Greenbaum and the team calculate that the ice flowing through the Totten
Glacier, which penetrates a mile below sea level in some places, is sufficient
to raise the global sea level by at least 11 feet, equivalent to the
contribution of the West Antarctic ice sheet if it were to completely collapse.
(The glacier's catchment area - the equivalent of a watershed - is larger than
California.)

"We now know there are avenues for the warmest waters in East Antarctica to
access the most sensitive areas of Totten Glacier," said Greenbaum, who was the
lead author on a paper in March in the journal Nature Geoscience about the
finding.

Warm is a relative term when you're talking about Antarctica; these waters are
just a few degrees above the freezing point.

The discovery of a deep channel linking the Totten to other ice-shelf cavities -
avenues for water to reach the glacier - was a novel one. Scientists call it a
"back door."

"Existing maps had failed to spot this connection," observed Peter Fretwell of
the British Antarctic Survey.

By year's end Greenbaum, who dutifully takes a Texas state flag with him to
Antarctica, should get his doctorate in geophysics. But he's not leaving UT; he
will continue Antarctic research as a postdoc.

He has the feel of a UT lifer. He got his bachelor's degree in 2004 in aerospace
engineering, and then a master's in 2006, with much of his work on the
fabrication of two small satellites.

But he soon wanted to move beyond engineering, he says.

"As an engineer I didn't have the credibility to pose questions, gather
resources and design an experiment," he said in an interview at UT's Institute
for Geophysics on its J.J. Pickle campus, where he is preparing equipment for
the team's next trip to the South Pole - he has visited it eight times, with
trips lasting up five months.

Greenbaum said the chief challenge for researchers, far from their families and
friends back home and living in tight quarters, is staying even-keeled during
the long hours on the ice.

"It's cold, it's uncomfortable, the sun never sets - so naturally you don't mind
working longer hours, but that can mean you don't sleep enough. Then you become
even more difficult to deal with," he said.

He has shared his wonderment at these trips - he has also been to Greenland
three times - with elementary school students and other nonscientists in Austin,
bringing along his snow boots and gloves as a sort of deep-down-under show and
tell.

"He's a great communicator," says his friend and mentor Kevin Tuerff, who runs
an Austin public relations company.

Sea level rise has become one of the world's chief environmental concerns:
Globally, sea level has arisen roughly 4.5 inches since the late 19th century.

Greenbaum steers clear of addressing government carbon policy - scientists say
that carbon emissions associated with cars and coal plants, among other things,
have contributed to a warming planet - to concentrate on the value of the
information he is collecting.

"Regardless of what's causing the rise, it's valuable to predict it - for
coastal cities, for infrastructure, not to mention island nations," he said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The dry years

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1143 words


As it copes with a searing drought, California has taken drastic measures,
including a mandate by Gov. Jerry Brown that city dwellers cut their water use
by 25 percent.

That move stands in stark contrast to one made by Gov. Rick Perry in 2011, when
Texas was at the height of its arguably worst-ever drought: He asked Texans to
pray for rain.

But as the state grows drier and its population booms, Texas might soon find
itself having to make the same sort of hard decisions that have become so common
in California, experts say.

"There are certain things that have happened in California that are on their way
to Texas," said Wes Strickland, a water lawyer at the law firm Jackson Walker
LLP who practices in both states.

Chief among those is environmental litigation, and the restrictions that come
along with it, he said.

In fundamental ways, the states are different when it comes to water supplies
and geography, with California appearing the more vulnerable. While Texas water
supplies are fragmented, California's are interconnected, with massive water
pipelines pulling water from the mountain-top snowpacks in the state's northeast
and sending it to the more arid farming communities in its center.

Yet the very things that have insulated Texas from wider disputes - a regional
focus on water planning, with very distinct approaches to regulating river water
and groundwater - could lead to internecine battles as supplies grow more
precious.

Texas has seen a few such clashes: Environmentalists and farmers in the
Guadalupe and Brazos river basins have gone to court to fight for water
jeopardized by drought. And ratcheted-up efforts to move underground water to
fast-growing cities have been met with anger in the rural areas from which the
water originates, with some residents accusing deal-makers of a "water grab."

The drought has hit California harder in some ways. While Texas' worst drought
year, 2011, followed a year of relatively normal weather, California has seen
back-to-back rough years. Since the drought started, California's precipitation
is 30 percent below normal.

For the drought that started in late 2010, western Texas' precipitation is about
15 percent to 25 percent below normal, said John Nielsen-Gammon, the Texas state
climatologist.

That could change. Climatologists say Texas will grow drier in coming decades,
putting a premium on water supplies as the state's population grows.

Texas doesn't appear fully prepared for that eventuality: The Texas state water
plan does little to recognize climate change forecasts, and the Texas Water
Development Board's chairman, Carlos Rubinstein, has said there is too much
uncertainty about future climate change to fold scientific forecasts into water
planning. So while some other states are preparing for a drier future, Texas'
policy is to look at historic rain patterns.

There's a political gulf, too, with engineers and homebuilders appearing to have
far more clout over environmental groups in the Texas Capitol than in
Sacramento.

In theory, a Texas governor "could use the bully pulpit to call for conserving
or cutting back a certain amount," said Robert Mace, deputy executive
administrator at the Texas Water Development Board. Perry, he noted, declared a
drought emergency, triggering county governments to encourage cutbacks.

But Perry stopped short of mandating cuts, most famously issuing the rain prayer
request.

Compared with the mandatory cuts ordered in California, Texas has seen "a lack
of activity in terms of state government," said Sharlene Leurig, director of the
sustainable water infrastructure program at Ceres, a nonprofit that works with
institutional investors to promote environmentally minded practices.

Meanwhile, Texas has long shrugged off recommendations from scientists that more
water be kept in state waterways to support fish and wildlife.

"In Texas we don't recognize the tremendous, tragic consequences of the water
decisions we make," said Jane Cohen, a University of Texas professor of water
law. "We don't really give a damn about whooping cranes" - an endangered species
whose Gulf Coast habitat depends on a mix of fresh and saltwater - "and our bays
and estuaries"

"In California they can't get away with it," she continued. "The environmental
organizations are too strong."

There is also an important bureaucratic difference between the two states.

In California, which has benefited from hefty doses of federal money for water
supply projects, environmental demands are baked into the water supply process
to meet federal rules. As much as 50 percent of water in lakes and streams is
earmarked for wildlife. In Austin's Colorado River basin, in contrast, less than
50,000 acre-feet of reservoir water has been set aside for environmental needs,
compared with the more than 400,000 tied up in industrial and municipal
contracts.

The battle-hardened California system is a "little more mature" than the Texas
system, Strickland said.

"You have a greater population (in California) that has been putting stress on
water supplies on a more regular basis for longer," he said.

With Texas' population reaching ever greater heights, the state could see more
of the sort of endangered species litigation that led to large-scale protections
in the Edwards Aquifer, Strickland said.

The consequence could be a long-term reckoning for Texas, experts say.

"We really like green lawns, and it's been so easy for us to have water," said
David Foster, who heads the Texas office of the environmental group Clean Water
Action. "We haven't adjusted to the reality that those days are over, as water
becomes increasingly scarce."

For now, the thrust of Texas' strategy is to build major water supply projects.
In 2013, voters backed the creation of a $2 billion revolving loan fund to front
the money for local entities to pay for the new water projects such as
reservoirs and pipeline projects.

This legislative session, state Rep. Lyle Larson, R-San Antonio, proposed a
study to develop a water grid for the entire state.

Larson said at one legislative hearing that Texas should build pipelines from
water-rich areas to cities that need it.

"We balkanize our state and fight each other fiercely along regional lines,"
Larson said.

The proposal is supported by utilities and engineering firms, but it doesn't
appear to be going far. Environmentalists have criticized it as a California
"pipe dream."

"Both states have a vigorous debate about whether we can build our way out of
scarcity," said Leurig. "Whether it's Texas' reservoirs, or California's
snowpacks, climate vulnerability is the defining characteristic of our existing
water supply."

And, echoing a frequent mantra of environmentalists promoting conservation, she
added, "there's no economic way to build the acre-feet of water that's needed in
either state."

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Texas vs. EPA is mixed record

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1578 words


Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton is accusing the Obama administration of an
illegal, green-cloaked plot "to take over America's electrical grid" through its
newest proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions.

If the White House doesn't back off, he says, he'll sue.

But an American-Statesman review of Texas' challenges to 23 Environmental
Protection Agency proposals since Obama took office shows a gulf between the
self-confident rhetoric from Texas officials and the final word from judges who
set the limits on the federal agency's power.

Both sides can claim major victories - the federal government on its authority
to regulate greenhouse gases, which scientists link to a warming climate; the
state on its right to set up a pollution permit system that favors business.

The Statesman has found that the Texas attorney general's office has won five of
the nearly two dozen rule challenges, lost at least three, and seen up-and-down
results on a half-dozen or so others. The remaining challenges have yet to be
resolved.

The state has spent $1.4 million on the cases so far, chiefly on staff salaries,
in a campaign that has grown as the Obama White House began proposing a series
of new regulations, chiefly centered on air quality and climate issues that it
says are intended to protect public health.

Where there's smoke

Among the 23 rules the state has challenged are several follow-ups to a landmark
2007 Supreme Court ruling that gave the EPA the authority to regulate carbon
dioxide.

In that case, Texas had actually sided with the EPA under President George W.
Bush, which said the gas isn't a dangerous air pollutant.

With Barack Obama's presidency, any like-mindedness with Texas officials
evaporated. Politically, too, relations entered an absolute deep-freeze as
Obama's regional administrator for the EPA came off as too sharp-elbowed for
state regulators and industry; the administrator eventually resigned - he's now
at the Sierra Club - and relations gently warmed.

Building on the Supreme Court decision, the Obama administration declared that
such greenhouse gases as carbon dioxide and methane "threaten the public health
and welfare of current and future generations" and that tailpipe emissions and
power plant carbon emissions ought to be regulated.

The state challenged the EPA on the greenhouse rules - and generally failed. In
2012, for instance, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
dismissed a challenge, brought in part by Texas, on the Obama administration
EPA's endangerment finding.

In that case, the state paid about $340,000 - $275,000 in salary, plus $35,000
in outside experts and $32,940 in travel and other expenses - according to
records from the state attorney general's office.

That effort counts as arguably the state's biggest loss as it tries to protect
oil and gas and utility interests, among Texas' cornerstone employers. Energy
companies have argued the rules could lead to the additions of costly new
equipment or the shuttering of carbon-intensive coal plants.

A Scalia scorcher

Texas has been more successful in other challenges. It ultimately prevailed, for
example in a dispute over the lawfulness of EPA limits on an aspect of Texas
power plant emissions; the D.C. Circuit determined the EPA had required greater
reductions than were necessary to protect air quality in downwind states.

It's hard to quantify, statewide, how much industrial facilities have saved or
paid up depending on the outcomes of these cases.

To give a sense of the money at play: In 2011, as part of a deal with
regulators, the Lower Colorado River Authority and Austin finished the
installation of a pair of $400 million sulfur dioxide scrubbers on two of the
smokestacks at the Fayette coal plant they jointly own.

The scrubbers were part of a deal with regulators to replace tubes lining the
boiler that were corroding from constant wear. Replacing the tubes on their own
would have counted as a "major modification" to the plant, triggering a
time-consuming and costly process that would have reviewed the plant as a new
source of emissions - and required more stringent emission standards.

That compromise didn't involve a Texas suit against the EPA, but, in its briefs,
the state generally says the EPA proposals are unnecessary and will require
industrial facilities to spend millions of dollars on equipment upgrades - costs
that consumers will eventually be forced to cover.

The EPA, for its part, typically offers its own cost-benefit estimate of a
regulation. In August, for example, the agency estimated annual implementation
costs for the Clean Power Plan, its power-plant-carbon-cutting regulation now
under attack by policymakers in Texas and other red states, to reach $2.5
billion in 2020, $1 billion in 2025 and $8.4 billion in 2030, as it's rolled
out.

But the agency has recently been rebuked for its calculations: In June, the
Supreme Court decided in a 5-4 vote that the EPA hadn't properly taken into
account the costs of the regulation of mercury emissions from coal-fired power
plants.

"It is not rational, never mind â  appropriate,'" Justice Antonin Scalia wrote,
"to impose billions of dollars in economic costs in return for a few dollars in
health or environmental benefits."

That case, which went back and forth between several federal courts, including
the U.S. Supreme Court, cost the state $605,000.

The mercury limits might still get enacted, but the state, with the approval of
business groups, successfully forced the EPA to regroup - a delay that could,
for now, save industry millions.

Water dispute looms

The state spent far less - $41,534 - to win a case that allowed it to retain a
cornerstone of its pollution permitting program. The EPA had criticized Texas'
flexible permitting program for setting facilitywide emissions limits on
refineries and the like, thus keeping regulators in the dark about how many
gases particular parts of a given refinery or industrial plant are belching into
the air.

But a federal court in 2012 said the EPA had overstepped its bounds, with the
federal Clean Air Act envisioning a measure of discretion with how states meet
standards.

The state's efforts are "clearly a benefit to market participants in the power
industry," said Mike Nasi, a lawyer who represents coal companies and utilities.
"We can argue rules are difficult to comply with or not technically sound or
illegal, but the state can speak to issues of overall reliability."

States, he said, "ought to be more compelling (to judges) because they're going
to run the (pollution permitting) program."

Moving forward, arguably the chief outstanding Texas case against the EPA is
over a proposal to expand the definition of federal waters to include seasonal
and rain-dependent waterways.

EPA officials say the proposal would stiffen pollution penalties. More than 11
million Texans, including many in Central Texas, get drinking water from sources
that depend, in part, on the intermittent streams.

The proposal "is without adequate scientific and economic justification and, if
finalized, would erode private property rights and have devastating effects on
the landowners of Texas," Gov. Greg Abbott wrote when he was still attorney
general.

Fightin' words

Then, of course, given Paxton's recent letter, there's Texas' looming further
challenge to the Obama administration's newest greenhouse gas proposals.

This month, in a letter to EPA chief Gina McCarthy, Jon Niermann, chief of the
environmental protection division of Paxton's agency, argued for a stay of
carbon limits.

But the Obama administration shows no signs of backing down, with the president
using his bully pulpit to press the clean power proposal.

In remarks in early August, Obama said that power plants emit more carbon
dioxide than the nation's cars, airplanes and homes combined.

"That pollution contributes to climate change, which degrades the air our kids
breathe," he said. "But there have never been federal limits on the amount of
carbon that power plants can dump into the air. Think about that. We limit the
amount of toxic chemicals like mercury and sulfur and arsenic in our air or our
water - and we're better off for it. But existing power plants can still dump
unlimited amounts of harmful carbon pollution into the air. For the sake of our
kids and the health and safety of all Americans, that has to change. For the
sake of the planet, that has to change."

As Obama ratchets up his rhetoric, so are Texas officials.

"The Obama administration's carbon rule is an example of the president forcing
through what he couldn't accomplish legislatively," Paxton said in June. He has
pointed to improvements in Texas' air quality over the past 15 years: The
greater Austin area, for example, has seen a 22 percent improvement in its smog
level over that period, according to the state's environmental agency.

"This program will result in the premature retirement of existing power plants,
damaging the reliability of our electric grid, and resulting in significantly
higher energy costs for businesses and consumers alike," Paxton said.
"Overregulation stifles growth, kills existing jobs and hinders the creation of
new ones. That's why we fight, and that's why we'll continue to fight back
against the EPA's Carbon Rule."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Clean Power Plan
  Under the EPA's Clean Power Plan, Texas utilities will have to reduce their
carbon emissions from 240,000 tons in 2012 to 190,000 tons a year by 2030.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 7, 2015 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Latest rainfalls set Texas records

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 818 words


Texas has never been through a pair of storms quite like the ones it just
experienced, at least since it began keeping accurate records, according to an
analysis by State Climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon.

The recent storms broke state two-day, five-day and 10-day average rain records
kept as far back as 1950. During the 10-day period that ended on Halloween, 5.32
inches fell, which is 14 percent more rainfall than the previous record of 4.68
inches, which had stood since April 1957.

That rainfall measure is a statewide average. Many areas - including communities
around Central Texas - saw far more. But the statewide average is an indication
of both the intensity and breadth of the recent storms.

"These two events far exceed all others since 1950," Nielsen-Gammon wrote on his
blog.

The recent rains were the second period of record rainfall in Texas this year.

May was the wettest 30-day period on record - due in large part to the rain that
spawned the Memorial Day weekend floods that swept Hays County and submerged
parts of downtown Austin - with a statewide average of just more than 9 inches.
That is the most rain in a 30-day period for Texas since at least 1895,
according to the National Centers for Environmental Information.

Taken together, Texas is experiencing one of its wettest years ever - despite
several months of intense drought.

Texas entered 2015 with most of the state in some form of drought, with parts of
the state exceptionally dry, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor, which
measures a combination of climate, hydrological and soil conditions. Then came
May, which washed away the drought. That was followed by summer's "flash
drought," which was nearly wiped out by the October rains, according to the
drought monitor.

In the span of a few weeks, the concern in Texas whiplashed from fires to
floods, particularly east of Austin in Bastrop County.

The Hidden Pines fire burned through nearly 4,600 acres in mid-October,
destroying 64 homes, in the area's second massive wildfire in four years. The
Hidden Pines fire was finally extinguished in late October by the heavy rains.
Those rains flooded the area, requiring more than 100 water rescues and the
evacuation of more than 250 homes.

The flash flooding has prompted plans to beef up the flood early warning system
in that area.

Nielsen-Gammon wrote that the recent storms were partly the result of an
unusually strong El Niño, a cyclical warming of the eastern Pacific that
historically has resulted in heavier rainfall in Texas. That El Niño means the
wet weather that is saturating the ground will probably last into spring.

Texas has swung between drought and flood since settlers first arrived here,
said Wes Birdwell, chairman of the Texas Floodplain Management Association's
legislative committee. But the severity of this weather has raised an obvious
question: Is climate change playing a part?

Nielsen-Gammon seems to hint at it, without bold pronouncements.

"Scientists do not yet know to what extent climate change may have affected the
overall weather patterns, or whether those changes in weather patterns caused an
increase or decrease in Texas rainfall beyond what would have happened anyway,"
Nielsen-Gammon wrote.

He added, however: "Climate change was probably responsible for a little extra
rainfall by enhancing the moisture content of the atmosphere, providing more
water vapor that could then condense and fall as rain."

In Central Texas, this year's rainfall has already made 2015 one of the wettest
years on record, according to Lower Colorado River Authority data. As of Friday,
only two years had produced more rainfall than the 53.4 inches that have fallen
so far at Camp Mabry: 1900, which saw 53.99 inches fall there, and 1919, which
saw 64.68 inches.

Rainfall totals at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, however, seem certain
to reach new highs. The annual record, set in 1957, is 55.74 inches, according
to the LCRA - only half an inch more than what has fallen there so far this
year.

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

STATESMAN WEATHER APP KEEPS CENTRAL TEXANS FOREWARNED
  The all-new American-Statesman weather app is available for iPhone and
Android devices. The Statesman Weather features include radar, a seven-day
forecast, real-time severe weather alerts, as well as the latest weather news
and social sharing. Download it for free in the Apple iTunes and Google Play
stores by searching for "Statesman Weather."


By the numbers
  Texas' two recent storms were record setters by a variety of measures. The
statewide average reached rainfall records for:
  A two-day period, with 2.42 inches Oct. 24-25 surpassing the December 1991
record of 2.14 inches.
  A five-day period, with 3.97 inches Oct. 22-26 besting the December 1991
record of 3.82 inches.
  A 10-day period with 5.32 inches Oct. 22-31 breaking the April 1957 record of
 4.68 inches.
  Source: State Climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Critics 'award' skeptic Smith

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 703 words


Fed up with climate-change naysaying, a few dozen Austinites descended on the
South Austin field office of a congressman to give him a "Flat Earth" award.

U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, who has accused federal scientists of
altering data to get "politically

correct results" on global warming during recent hearings in Washington, was not
on hand to receive the award.

The award's citation said it honored Smith's "tireless work rejecting
well-established and obvious scientific fact in the grand tradition of flat
Earth believers everywhere, and his skillful use of Congressional power to
undermine uncomfortable and inconvenient

scientific research."

It was signed by the Flat Earth Foundation of Texas' "President of
Pseudoscience" and "Alchemist-in-Chief."

A hearing chaired last week by Smith, and one convened on Tuesday by
presidential hopeful and U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, titled "Data or Dogma?
Promoting Open Inquiry in the Debate over the Magnitude of Human Impact on
Earth's Climate" come as negotiators from around the globe meet in Paris to talk
about what steps they are willing to take to address the problem.

On Monday, before delivering the award - a banner that looked like a certificate
- the Austin­ites, a mix of baby boomers, 20-somethings and retirees, brought
together by environmentalists with the Texas Drought Project and other
organizations, rallied and performed guerrilla theater by an Interstate 35
frontage road.

Some, dressed in pinstripe suits, waved dollar bills and chanted, "Drill, Baby,
Drill" - they represented the oil and gas industry, the largest contributor to
Smith's campaign in the 2014 election cycle. Others, as scientists, wore white
lab coats and murmured warnings

about more drought and wildfires. In between were the parents, concerned about
their kids and grandchildren - one woman, 70-year-old Joan Quenan, wore a
T-shirt that said, "Never underestimate a grandma with a mathematics degree."

Smith, who chairs the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, said at
a hearing

last week that a paper written by scientists at the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration that disproved a supposed "hiatus" in global warming
over much of the past two decades, was part of an Obama administration effort to
promote its "extreme climate agenda."

Associations of scientists have railed against the Smith hearings, suggesting
they are politically motivated witch hunts that will have a chilling effect on
scientific research that informs potentially controversial policy matters.

Smith's office says it is exercising lawful and prudent oversight of the
government scientists.

"I will continue supporting domestic energy production and working to stop the
extreme policies that threaten to increase the cost of electricity for
Americans," he said in a statement issued by his office Monday. "I will also
continue asking tough questions of this administration because the American
people deserve to know the truth about its extreme agenda. Texas has led the
nation in energy production, but few states would be hit as hard as Texas by
this administration's climate regulations."

In a Dec. 1 letter to U.S. Commerce Secretary

Penny Pritzker, Smith demanded that the government hand over, by Dec. 15, copies
of all communications by NOAA officials that refer to the paper, which appeared
in the journal Science.

Quenan, a retired math teacher, said Smith's investigations are a "stupid waste
of taxpayer dollars."

One man, Terry Coyle, 68, dressed as a pirate. He explained: "Even in the 1600s
we knew the Earth was round. Some today feel it's flat. Lamar Smith is one of
those people."

Beki Halpin shouted to the office building that houses Smith's field office,
"Congressman Smith, you can't put your head in the sand."

"Scientific facts are not something that's negotiable," said Kaiba White of the
government watchdog group Public Citizen.

After the rally, the group filed into the office building - "Young people to the
front!" said Jere Locke, one of the organizers - and presented the award to John
Horton, Smith's community liaison and the sole person in the office.

He politely received the award and folded it up.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Will rates rise? Depends on fine print

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 703 words


The impact of new federal rules for power plant emissions on Austin Energy
customers and other Central Texas bill-payers depends on the fine print, and how
much credit the utilities will get for past efforts to add more renewable
energy.

Austin Energy spokesman Robert Cullick said Monday it's "not possible to
analyze" how the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan, aimed at cutting
climate change gases, will ultimately affect rates paid by Austinites.

A lot depends on whether federal authorities recognize the city-owned utility's
investments over the last couple of decades in renewable power and energy
efficiency to tamp down carbon emissions.

Since 1990, the utility has avoided the need for approximately 1,000 megawatts
of peak demand through efficiency upgrades at homes and businesses, allowing the
utility to stave off the construction of the equivalent of two power plants. The
utility says it's on track to reach a goal of 35 percent renewable energy by
2017.

"It looks like the substantial commitment Austin Energy customers have made to
renewable energy and energy efficiency may not be recognized for their ability
to help reduce carbon," Cullick said. "If that's the case, if we don't get
credit for what we've done in the past, we'll have to do it again."

And that could be expensive because it requires new investments.

In comments submitted in December, Kathleen Garrett, director of environmental
services at Austin Energy, encouraged the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
to "recognize early action by allowing credit be given to pre-2020 measures that
reduce or avoid emissions, which can be banked and used post-2020 to demonstrate
compliance."

The Lower Colorado River Authority, the nonprofit utility that owns the
coal-fired Fayette Power Plant with Austin, took a much more critical approach
in its comments to the EPA. Calling the proposed emissions rules unlawful and
unfair, the utility, which sells wholesale electricity to Pedernales Electric
Co-op and Bluebonnet Coop, argued they "would compromise reliability" and drive
up wholesale and retail rates, citing an analysis by Texas' grid operator that
suggested costs could increase by a fifth by 2020 to meet the new emissions
rules.

Bastrop-based Bluebonnet, for one, says it is still analyzing how the new rules
will impact the rates of the 65,000 families, schools and businesses it serves.

Texas environmental and business groups remain far apart on how much the plan
will cost Texans and benefit public health, and on Monday they tossed out press
releases to express their support for or anguish about the Obama plan.

State officials have generally argued the plan will harm jobs and raise rates.

"As we have in the past, Texas will lead the fight against an overreaching
federal government that seems hell-bent on threatening the free-market
principles this country was founded on," Gov. Greg Abbott said.

But Austin officials, standing with environment groups, have taken the opposite
tack.

"The Clean Power Plan will help cities across Texas benefit from cleaner air,
affordable power and a new generation of family supporting green jobs by
cleaning up the dirtiest sources of carbon pollution," Austin Mayor Steve Adler
said.

The rule is likely to be challenged in court and could take years to fully take
effect.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Local lawmakers react
  "While this plan may be popular with environmental activists and the
president's liberal base, these regulations will have very real consequences
for Texans who depend on access to affordable, reliable energy. Instead of
imposing more draconian regulations, the administration should follow the Texas
 playbook and let innovation drive an energy policy that fits the diverse needs
 of both consumers and businesses alike."
  - U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas
  "With Congress dominated by climate change deniers, the president is relying
on sound science to combat one of our greatest security, environmental, and
health challenges. As a center for clean energy, Central Texas will gain more
opportunities for local entrepreneurs and more hope that we can overcome the
many threats posed by global warming."
  - U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 7, 2015 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LBJ warning on climate unheeded

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 944 words


Concerns about global warming penetrated the public's awareness only two or
three decades ago, but the dangers to the climate from burning fossil fuels have
been known to a growing number of scientists since the late 19th century.
Although it's rarely remembered, an environmental pollution report released 50
years ago this week warned President Lyndon B. Johnson of the dangers of carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The report, "Restoring the Quality of Our
Environment," might be a half-century old, but much of it reads as though it was
written this morning.

Compiled by the Environmental Pollution Panel of the President's Science
Advisory Committee and published Nov. 5, 1965, the report focused on the
pervasive air and water pollution of the time. But notable now is a chapter on
"the invisible pollutant," as the report called carbon dioxide, that outlines
the potential consequences of ever-increasing CO2 levels: higher global
temperatures, melting ice caps and glaciers, and rising sea levels.

The report notes that until a few centuries ago humans mostly burned wood, which
returns to the atmosphere carbon that was only recently taken from the carbon
cycle. Thus the effects on CO2 levels are negligible. But as humans began to
industrialize and burn fossil fuels, carbon that had been locked away for
hundreds of millions of years began to flow into the atmosphere, "and this
combustion is measurably increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide," the report
says.

"Through his worldwide industrial civilization, Man is unwittingly conducting a
vast geophysical experiment," the report's authors write. Though they are
careful to note that much remained to be learned in 1965, they knew enough to
know that "the climatic changes that may be produced by the increased CO2 could
be deleterious from the point of view of human beings."

In 1965, the annual mean atmospheric CO2 level at Mauna Loa Observatory in
Hawaii was 320.04 parts per million. The annual mean for 2014 was 398.55 ppm, a
24.5 percent increase over the past 50 years and 42 percent higher than the 280
ppm found to exist at the dawn of the Industrial Revolution in the 1700s. The
last time CO2 levels exceeded 300 ppm was at least 800,000 years ago, according
to ice-core samples - a time before humans existed and when sea levels were
dozens of feet higher than they are today.

In a letter introducing the pollution report, LBJ writes, "Ours is a nation of
affluence. But the technology that has permitted our affluence spews out vast
quantities of wastes and spent products that pollute our air, poison our waters,
and even impair our ability to feed ourselves." He calls pollution "one of the
most pervasive problems of our society." Unless action was taken, Johnson says,
the problem was only going to get worse as the nation and the world continued to
urbanize and industrialize and as the population steadily grew.

Carbon dioxide levels are increasing because humans are burning fossil fuels.
Carbon dioxide from fossil fuels is a pollutant. Carbon dioxide's release into
the atmosphere needs to be brought under control.

Three conclusions from a report published 50 years ago. Actions were taken to
improve our air and water, and today they are cleaner as a result. Action on
climate change waits still.

- JODY SEABORN

A failure of engagement in

Travis County courthouse vote

For 15 years, Travis County commissioners hemmed and hawed on deciding when to
ask taxpayers to replace the Heman Sweatt Travis County Courthouse, built in
1931 and decades past its prime. If commissioners thought the right proposal and
the right moment had arrived Tuesday, voters left them sorely disappointed -
and, in County Judge Sarah Eckhardt's case, defiant.

Travis County voters rejected a $287 million bond measure to build a new civil
courthouse in downtown Austin by 50.7 percent to 49.3 percent. The defeat was
narrow - a margin of 1.4 percentage points - but a defeat nonetheless.

Those against the bond proposal included Austin City Council Member Don
Zimmerman, who spoke for fiscal conservatives opposed to higher property taxes,
and the Real Estate Council of Austin, whose last-minute resolution denouncing
the proposed downtown location as a waste of real estate probably sealed the
courthouse measure's doom. Both the Zimmerman and Real Estate Council camps
reflected a broader coalition of voters who think the county can build a new
courthouse for less money in East Austin, and in a location more accessible than
downtown.

Eckhardt's post-election response to the courthouse's defeat probably won't help
her cause. "Losing a bond election? Big deal," she said. "The bigger deal is
that not enough of our community is sufficiently engaged in one of the basic
tenets of our democracy, which is providing justice to all segments of our
community."

She emphasized the point when she declared that Tuesday's low turnout - 11.7
percent - "was not a rejection of the project or of the location. It was a lack
of interest in our democracy."

Well, the fact is, voters did reject the project and its location. As for
Tuesday's turnout, there was nothing surprising about it. Few Texans bother to
vote in odd-numbered election years, which usually only feature state
constitutional propositions and a handful of county and municipal elections.

Voters and elections don't fail; candidates and propositions do. In Tuesday's
immediate election aftermath, it's not clear that lesson has been learned. And
Eckhardt's immediate response could prove alienating moving forward.

- JODY SEABORN

More Viewpoints
  For more perspectives from the American-Statesman's editorial board, go to
viewpoints.blog.statesman.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Pot, gays gaining support, poll says

BYLINE: Tim Eaton American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 598 words


Nearly half of Texans support gay marriage - up from 29 percent in 2009 -
according to a Texas Lyceum poll released Wednesday.

Also, more Texans support legalization of marijuana - 46 percent, up 13 percent
since 2011 - and of those who oppose legalization, more than half say marijuana
should be decriminalized, according to the survey, conducted Sept. 8-21. The
shrinking opposition to marijuana legalization might reflect the beginning of an
attitude change in the Legislature, which this year approved a cannabis-derived
treatment for some forms of epilepsy.

The recent Texas Lyceum Poll, the group's ninth measure of Texans' views,
surveyed adult Texans' attitudes on issues including the Affordable Care Act,
climate change and youth football. The group also asked respondents about the
presidential race. That data will be released Thursday.

The poll is unique because it did not survey registered voters or likely voters,
like most political polls; rather it looked at the state's entire adult
population, said Joshua Blank, the poll's research director. The poll surveyed a
younger and more diverse cross-section of society, notably young Hispanics. That
revealed a more nuanced view of immigration, among other issues, he said.

Nearly two-thirds of respondents said they supported the state Legislature
approving $800 million for border security, including hundreds more state
troopers stationed at the border. At the same time, 65 percent said they
supported the federal action to stop the deportation of immigrants in the
country illegally who are attending college or serving in the military. Only 28
percent oppose the policy that also provides those students with legal and
renewable work permits.

Blank said the poll also found some interesting data from questions on
race-based discrimination.

Overall, 17 percent of Texans have said they had been discriminated against by
police. The poll indicated that one in 20 whites claimed to have experienced
discrimination from law enforcement, compared with one in four Hispanics. But 45
percent of African-Americans said they had experienced discrimination by police,
according to the poll.

"People's experience with police is heavily conditioned by their racial or
ethnic background," Blank said.

The race-based discrimination questions were important to consider in light of
the death of Sandra Bland while in custody in Waller County this year and the
national conversation about police and how they interact with African-Americans,
Blank said.

Texas Lyceum, a nonprofit, was set up to identify and develop leaders and help
to bring understanding of issues to decision-makers.

Contact Tim Eaton

at 512-445-3631.

key findings of Texas Lyceum Poll
  * Texans continue to believe that the economy is the most important issue in
the U.S.
  * One in 10 respondents said immigration was the most important issue facing
the country. However, 24 percent of Texans believe that immigration is the No.
1 issue facing the state today.
  * 9 percent of Texans said that education is the most important issue facing
Texas.
  * Nearly half of Texas adults viewed the Affordable Care Act as either
unfavorable or very unfavorable. Just 14 percent saw it as very favorable and
23 percent called the law somewhat favorable.
  * Roughly half of Texans personally worry about global warming or climate
change either a great deal (23 percent) or a fair amount (26 percent), but 31
percent of Texans don't worry at all about it.
  * Texans still love football: 72 percent of those polled said they would
encourage their children to play youth or high school football.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Top Things to do

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 262 words


"From Mountains to Sea"

Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday. Through Aug. 29. Art Science Gallery, Canopy, 916
Springdale Road. 512-522-8278, artsciencegallery.com.

This contemporary art exhibit explores the science and effects of climate
change. "From Mountains to Sea" is a participatory art project that invites the
public to contribute to tracking and plotting real-time data from the Keeling
Curve of carbon dioxide concentration on Mauna Loa, Hawaii. Works in this
exhibit explore the physical and biological impacts of a changing climate on our
planet and its ecosystems.

- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin

1

Trailer Food Tuesdays

5 to 9 p.m. Tuesday. Free. The Long Center City Terrace, 701 W. Riverside Drive.
trailerfoodtuesdays.com.

The final Trailer Food Tuesday of the season will again bring together 14 to 16
food trucks and trailers in one location along with live music, screenprinting,
drinks and the quirky vibe of the city. The food trucks that will be satiating
your hunger at this year's finale include Hand Helds Quality Sliders, Quality
Seafood Market, Slab BBQ and Cow Tipping Creamery. Real Ale Brewing, as always,
will provide the beverages.

2

"There's a Summer Place Where We Can Go"

10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday. Through Aug. 8. Davis Gallery, 837 W. 12th St. Free.
512-477-4929, davisgalleryaustin.com.

Davis Gallery unfurls a fresh lineup of new work by 21 of its represented
artists as well as some invited guest artists. On view is work in a variety of
mediums by Lisa Beaman, Matthew Fuller, David Everett, Gladys Poorte, Randall
Reid and Christopher St. Leger, among others.

3

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Austin Catholics warm to Francis' message

BYLINE: Patrick Beach American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 484 words


About 75 people came to the Parish Activity Center at St. Thomas More Catholic
Church in Northwest Austin Thursday morning to watch a live stream of Pope
Francis' speech to a joint session in Congress. If the goal of the man many are
calling the most invigorating and humble pope in recent memory was to provoke a
thoughtful discussion, parishioners essentially said "mission accomplished."

Homemaker Liz Kurtz said the pope had changed her faith.

"I've probably been a closet Catholic until learning more about this pope,"
Kurtz said. "His role can cut through politics. He speaks to us and has the ear
of the highest people in the world. And he doesn't have to worry about getting
elected. I feel excited and hopeful."

Kurtz called Francis' call for a global ban on the death penalty "pretty
exciting." Much of the attention on ­Catholic dogma typically goes to its
anti-abortion stance. She also had high marks for the pope's mention of Dorothy
Day, who one day might be canonized for her legacy as a radical Catholic
champion for workers and the poor in the 1930s.

Proving that the Internet isn't as infallible as the holy father, the video
stream was hung up for almost 15 minutes at the beginning of the pope's remarks.

But once it was restored, organizers backed up the feed so parishioners wouldn't
miss anything. Parishioners also read ­Twitter posts on another screen,
connecting with about 30,000 others from across the country in the event
organized by the Ignatian Solidarity Network, a social justice organization.

Leland Butler, a member of the parish for several years who helped organize the
event, said he finds Francis' voice a unifying one.

"He sets an example without rancor or discord or accusation," Butler said.
"Forgiveness is a huge gift from God. His community is not a gated community."

Butler also said the pope's position on climate change fits with his social
justice stance.

"What happens to the Earth affects the poorest first," Butler said.

Everyone who turned out got a #Pope2Congress bingo card with squares for "care
for creation," "workers' rights," "economic imbalance," defense of unborn life"
and the like.

The bingo winners got to talk about what struck them about the speech. One
parishioner said she was struck that the pope felt the need to say people should
treat each other with basic human kindness.

"As people, we need to be constantly reminded to love one another," said
parishioner and co-organizer Emmett Blake, who led the discussion.

Auxiliary Bishop of Austin Daniel Garcia issued this statement about the pope's
visit:

"I think Pope Francis' pastoral visit to the U.S. brings a reassurance of God's
love and mercy to all people living here in the U.S. His visit reminds us that
we are to look after each other with compassion and kindness. I believe people
see a joy in him that is infectious and people want to share in it."

Contact Patrick Beach

at 512-445-3603.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Saluting Austin's 2014 biggest global celebrities

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 907 words


We lost one, gained one and regained one.

During 2014, Austin mourned the sudden passing of a global celebrity in our
midst, Ian McLagan. Open, kind and accessible, the Rock and Roll Hall of Famer
fit easily into Austin's informal social sensibilities for decades.

Last year, too, Charlie Strong muscled onto the social scene. The Longhorn
Nation - which reaches from Austin to Alaska and back - cheered the new football
coach for cleaning house. He won't become a household name elsewhere, however,
until he wins and wins big.

Speaking of which, we fully regained Vince Young. After a roller-coaster career
in the NFL, the charismatic quarterback took a position at the University of
Texas - as an ambassador for the school's inclusive culture - and socialized all
over town, including frequent stints at his namesake steakhouse. Meanwhile, the
Longhorn Network seems determined to make his Rose Bowl win the most telecast
sporting event of all time.

The biggest status upgrade in Austin, however, was earned by Matthew McConaughey
- he could have been nominated for several outstanding performances other than
his Oscar-winning lead in "Dallas Buyers Club." He returned quickly to the
screen in the TV series "True Detective" and the space drama "Interstellar." He
also managed to keep his local profile sky-high through events such as the
"Mack, Jack & McConaughey" benefit.

Another fairly recent local Oscar winner, Sandra Bullock, was nominated again,
this time for "Gravity," but continued, conversely, to keep an ultra-low profile
in Austin. To tell the truth, your social columnist has never laid eyes on her.
Oh, well. We stoutly defend her constitutional right to privacy under these
circumstances.

Austin welcomed another batch of movie honorees as Richard Linklater's "Boyhood"
racked up the pre-Oscar wins. As unassuming as one could imagine, Linklater has
always been generous with his leadership in the Austin film scene. And if you
were wondering, I first saw him while slinging popcorn at the Varsity Theater on
the Drag during the 1980s. Linklater was a weekly customer.

Our city's No. 1 celebrity - as always - was Willie Nelson. Incredibly giving of
his time at home, his many 2014 triumphs were tallied recently - and in detail -
in these pages.

Among the few musical artists who could challenge Nelson's durable popularity
was the late Stevie Ray Vaughan, who made headlines by landing in the Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame last year. Meanwhile, we treated living musical legends such
as Ray Benson with traditional Austin respect - in other words, by taking them
completely for granted.

Returning to high-profile local actors for a bit, Emmy Award winner Kyle
Chandler ("Friday Night Lights," etc.) kept busy, but also found time to spread
the love at home in Central Texas. Elijah Wood ("The Lord of the Rings," etc.)
slipped in and out of the hipster lifestyle in South Austin, while Giancarlo
Esposito ("Breaking Bad," etc.) decided to stick around after "Revolution" ended
local shooting.

Combining sports with entertainment and sheer glamour, Andy Roddick and Brooklyn
Decker couldn't help but warm the hearts of Austinites, especially through their
work with the character-building-through-sports foundation that bears his name.

On the political playing field, would-be Gov. Wendy Davis - a sometime resident
- attracted widespread attention before losing spectacularly. Former Gov. Rick
Perry paved the way for another presidential run while engaging in rear-guard
legal action against an abuse-of-power indictment. In my experience, new Gov.
Greg Abbott appears more comfortable with Austin's social scene than did his
predecessor.

Outgoing UT President Bill Powers cast a national shadow in the academic world,
despite, or perhaps because of, his public tangles with Perry's surrogates. His
winning coaches - Rick Barnes, Karen Aston, Augie Garrido, Eddie Reese and
Jerritt Elliott - remain celebrated beyond our borders, thanks, in part, to the
Longhorn Network, but only in their respective fields.

The same could be said for Austin's rich supply of writers, scholars, chefs,
entrepreneurs and artists who might have reached the pinnacles of their
professions but would not land on any list of figures with street recognition.
(I'd love to say the divine author Sarah Bird is an exception, also modest chef
Paul Qui.)

We haven't forgotten about the business world. Once again, Austin's biggest
newsmaker was Michael Dell, who happily took his company private. He and his
wife, Susan Dell, kept their philanthropic efforts fairly quiet, considering
that their family foundation has given away more than $1 billion. Clearly,
that's the way they like it.

Gregarious John Paul DeJoria, another famous Austin billionaire, was spotted out
and about more often, especially alongside his kindhearted wife, actress Eloise
DeJoria. I don't know how they run a worldwide business empire, appear in movies
and still show up at so many Austin events.

Finally, we must make mention of Lance Armstrong, a complicated man whom many
still admire despite the doping and coverup scandals. His signature charity made
news by devoting $50 million to an innovative cancer care program at UT's Dell
Medical School. Then Livestrong's superstar CEO, Doug Ulman, left for new
horizons in Ohio after 14 years on the job.

We wish him - and others - much good fortune in 2015.

Contact Michael Barnes at 512-445-3970 or mbarnes@statesman.com

Twitter: @outandabout

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

OBIT: VITLIN, Victor Albert Shriro

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 535 words


VITLIN, Victor

Albert Shriro

Victor Albert Shriro Vitlin died on May 19, 2015 in San Francisco, California
after a long and determined battle against the melanoma that ultimately defeated
him. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Annag Chandler, by their daughter
Catherine and her husband, Jithun Nair, and by their son, Matthew, and his wife
Katherine. A resident of Austin, Texas, he still maintained business and real
estate interests in San Francisco. He was 65 years old.

Victor was born on December 1, 1949, in New York City. His parents were John
Alexander Shriro Virlin and Mina Abramovna Zeltzer Vitlin, then recently arrived
in the United States after surviving World War II in Shanghai. Since the lingua
franca in his home was Russian, Victor was fond of saying that any grammatical
errors in his English were understandable since it was, after all, his second
language.

Soon after Victor's birth, the family moved to the Bay Area to become business
partners with Mark Ross, another member of the Russia-by-way-of-China group of
San Franciscans who made a considerable impact on the business community here.
With family and business contacts throughout much of Asia and Australia, they
built Mark Ross International and Global Merchandising Corp. into thriving
business ventures that survive to this day and now provide fresh challenges to
the Vitlins and their valued business partner, James Connell, who himself is
part of the second generation of his family to make its mark at Global
Merchandising.

Victor graduated with honors from UCLA, and then went on to graduate from
Harvard Law School, where he met his wife. They married in 1984, and after
several years in the legal trenches doing transactional corporate and real
estate work (and acquiring a graduate degree in taxation from N.Y.U. School of
Law), he gradually shifted the focus of his work to fostering the business and
real estate concerns in which his family was involved.

Providing for his family's well being -- with a particular emphasis on education
-- was his chief concern. He felt very keenly that as a parent it was incumbent
upon him to leave his family with more financial stability and security than he
received from his parents.

His funeral was held on Friday, May 22nd at 12:30 pm in the chapel of the Home
of Peace Cemetery, 1299 El Camino Real, Colma. In lieu of flowers, the family
suggests that any donations be directed to The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society,
particularly their South Texas Chapter, at 8001 Centre Park Dr., Ste. 150,
Austin, TX 78754, or The Melanoma Research Foundation, 1411 K Street NW, Suite
800, Washington, D.C. 20005.

His spirit never gave up, but his body failed before his spirit could find the
means to defeat his foe. He will be remembered for his perseverance, for his
memory and intelligence, for his delight in all of the stories and history of
his far-flung family, and for his sheer unfettered joy whenever he could pack a
bag and go travelling. And given his love of travelling, we will remember him
with the verse by Edna St. Vincent Millay:

My heart is warm with friends I make, And better friends I'll not be knowing,
Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take, No matter where it's going.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Topical insight in 'Sundries'

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 782 words


From the hands of theater and puppet artist Caroline Reck, miniature allegorical
landscapes and characters emerge from quotidian stuff.

A sheet of blue plastic becomes an undulating ocean, while an iceberg is shaved
from repurposed plastic foam. Quaint neighborhoods materialize out of cleverly
crafted and painted cardboard and sticks. And poofs of fake fur at the end of a
puppeteer's rod awaken as a barking, frisky dog.

Through her Glass Half Full Theatre company, Reck has conjured imagined worlds.
But with her newest show, she gives us a cityscape and a very timely situation,
all too familiar.

Opening Friday at Salvage Vanguard Theater, "Simple Sundries" is a comedic yet
thoughtful look at Austin's rapid growth and the gentrification impacting the
east side.

Told through dialogue-less physical theater and puppetry, the hourlong show,
which Reck created in collaboration with Parker Dority, finds a young woman,
newly arrived to Austin, in search of a more authentic style of living.

The earnest millennial generation-age woman - named Constance - plans to open a
chic sundries shop in a recently flipped East Austin bungalow. But Constance's
entrepreneurial plans are thwarted by some of the bungalow's previous residents
- namely a flock of monk parakeets - who have colonized the house.

"Constance is not ill-intentioned," says Reck. "She's just one part on an entire
trajectory of what's going on and has been going on."

Taking a break from rehearsal recently, Reck and Dority explained that the
origin of the show started when they began thinking about the instances when
birds become trapped in supermarkets or big box stores. In the evolution of a
city, one demographic will replace another, just as humans have displaced
wildlife, the collaborators say.

The first iteration of "Simple Sundries" began as a 10-minute show in 2013 -
long before public opinion exploded recently when an East Austin piñata store on
East Cesar Chavez Street was unceremoniously demolished by new landowners.

But by coincidence, Reck and Dority had already decided that the bungalow in
"Simple Sundries" would be on East Cesar Chavez Street. And certainly Austin and
its current profile are the unmistakable setting of the show.

But "Simple Sundries" is no cynical diatribe, the creators insist.

The show "is not a condemnation of one person's or one group's actions," Reck
says. "It's a comedy of human folly - the human folly we're all engaged in."

With one actress and a puppeteer, the play relies on wordless physical acting,
much of it rooted in classic mime and clowning. And though it's written for
adults, the play's humor and topicality likely will connect with children age 9
and older, Reck and Dority suggest. (There is no adult subject matter in the
play.)

"Simple Sundries" is the latest from Reck's Glass Half Full Theatre, the tiny
company that in its few years creating theater in Austin has netted several
awards and considerable critical acclaim for its inventive blend of puppetry and
physical storytelling that employs gestures and expressions in tandem with props
and sets to convey the narrative along with a variety of puppetry techniques -
shadow puppetry, rod puppets and body manipulation.

Reck's visual aesthetic, which makes use of simple, common materials, is a
considered one, not a budget-driven decision.

Much of what Reck has created for Glass Half Full Theatre tackles challenging
topics, particularly climate change, but it does so with characteristic playful
humor.

The result is an eloquent theatrical and puppet storytelling that's earned Glass
Half Full Theatre a very distinctive place in Austin's theater scene - a place
arguably shared only by Reck's husband, Connor Hopkins, artistic director of
Trouble Puppet Theater. (The two are often collaborators - and are expecting
their first child in April.)

Last month Reck and company remounted "The Six Seasons," an enchanting look at
the effects of climate change on the history of farming as part of Zach
Theatre's children's season. In August the show travels to the National Puppetry
Festival. (Next month, Reck will create puppetry for Teatro Vivo's updated and
bilingual version of "Cinderella," also set for Zach's children's theater
program.)

"We're not out to lay blame," Reck says of "Simple Sundries." "But to reflect
about what's going on. Everybody has their idea of what the real Austin was or
should be."

Contact Jeanne Claire van Ryzin at 512-445-3699.

'Simple Sundries'
  When: Opens 8 p.m. Friday. Show continues 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, 6 p.m.
Sundays through March 14
  Where: Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803 Manor Road
  Cost: $12-$20 (sliding scale)
  Information: 512-593-3933, www.glasshalffulltheatre.com


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 6, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

TOP LOCAL STORIES OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 668 words


MONDAY

Woman gets title to her house after fighting city: Pamela Franklin finally
bought her house on Monday after pressuring the city of Austin to honor an
ownership program she had participated in since 1998.

Back then, city housing officials promoted a rent-to-own program to a small
group in East Austin, offering tenants the ability to buy houses at a fair
price. When Franklin asked the city to honor its end of the bargain, housing
officials refused, saying no such program existed.

The closing on the property took place almost exactly a year since the American-

Statesman first chronicled her story. The new deal signed by Austin housing
officials and Franklin last week will effectively turn over the home to her free
of charge.

TUESDAY

Williamson wants cave bug off endangered species

list: Williamson County is gearing up for a fight to try to get a spider like
creature that lives in caves off the endangered species list.

County commissioners said Tuesday the bone cave harvestman should no longer be
listed as endangered and that if it stays on the list, it could affect a county
project called the Southwest Bypass, which involves extending Leander Road to
Texas 29.

The harvestman is an eyeless, pale orange, eight-legged species that lives in
limestone caves only in Travis and Williamson counties.

WEDNESDAY

Officials: Water main break wasted 105 million gallons: A broken underground
main in East Austin leaked an estimated 105 million gallons of water earlier
this year, city water officials said Wednesday.

The lost water would have been enough to meet the bathing, drinking, washing and
irrigation demands of at least 1,000 Austin homes for an entire year.

The leak lasted from late January through late June as workers tried to pinpoint
several cracks, Austin Water Utility spokesman Jason Hill said. Repairs were
finally finished Nov. 20 and cost $1.1 million.

THURSDAY

Crowded sheriff 's race gains candidate: Constable Sally Hernandez on Thursday
announced she is running for Travis County sheriff next year, the fifth
candidate to join the race.

It remains unknown whether Sheriff Greg Hamilton will run for a fourth term.
Hamilton initially said he would retire but then said he is considering another
run.

The field includes four Democrats: Hernandez, Lakeway Police Chief Todd Radford,
union leader and sheriff's special operations Sgt. Don Rios and John Sisson, a
former sheriff's deputy. Private investigator Joe Martinez is the only
Republican running.

FRIDAY

Ex-judge cancels his courthouse contract: Retired state District Judge John
Dietz on Friday canceled his $140,000 no-bid consulting contract with Travis
County after it was criticized as a "revolving door" deal arranged by his former
colleagues on the bench.

The county Commissioners Court in September voted

to hire Dietz to help guide the design of the long-planned civil courthouse.
Voters last month rejected a $287 million bond election for the project.

The American-Statesman had reported that District Judge Lora Livingston, Dietz's
replacement as administrative judge, on Nov. 18 requested an amendment to the
contract that added a new "task" and allowed Dietz to keep working for the
county, despite the bond election's failure. The change didn't need approval
from county commissioners.

Austin leaders take lessons from Paris climate talks: A handful of prominent
Austinites traveled to Paris to take the lessons of the international climate
negotiations and bring them back, the American-Statesman reported Friday.

The delegation includes Austin Mayor Steve Adler, Council Member Leslie Pool and
Bee Moorhead, director of the Texas Interfaith Center for Public Policy.

The group says cities are on the front line of the issue and pointed to such
Austin City Council actions as new solar power contracts and expanding citywide
composting and recycling pickup. It hopes climate negotiations in France will
galvanize Austinites to take further environmental action, even as Texas' top
policymakers are moving in the opposite direction.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Perry exits riding high - into uncertain future

BYLINE: Ken Herman American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2293 words


He came to the Capitol as a dime-a-dozen conservative Democratic legislator from
somewhere you never heard of and have no desire to visit. Now he's leaving the
building as a one-of-a-kind record-setter, a governor like no other in a state
like no other.

And he leaves this month as a Texas governor with a future possibly like none of
the 46 who preceded him: White House? Big House? Presidency? Prison?

James Richard Perry - and who saw this coming when he showed up in the state
House in 1985? - ends three decades in state office as a giant of Texas history.

Probably more than any other Texas politician, Perry's career rides the arc of
how the state's politics have changed over the past 30 years, moving from
Democratic dominance to Republican reign. Turns out, if measured by personal
political success, he's made the right decisions.

He was 34 when he arrived in Austin as Rep. Rick Perry, D-Haskell. He was a
big-pond small fish.

"I recall driving into the (Capitol) grounds and thinking just how big that
building was, how imposing that building was," he said recently as we sat in the
Governor's Mansion.

At another recent event at the mansion, Perry recalled his first key decision at
the Capitol.

"I had two choices of where to sit in the chamber. Back over in what we called â
red square,'" he said, referring to a section where liberal Democrats were
bivouacked, "or there was this last seat left right in front of the press box."

Perceiving the difference, young Perry opted to sit near the reporters rather
than the liberals.

Jorjanna Price, then with the now-defunct Houston Post's Austin Bureau, has
vivid memories of the new West Texan.

"He showed up as a freshman lawmaker with a mouth full of braces and the nervous
energy of a teenager. His desk was right in front of the House press box, and he
was always springing out of his chair and bouncing over to see the reporters,"
Price told me.

"During floor debates, he would want to tell you a joke or just gab in general,"
Price said. (Note: That's not unusual for House members.)

Price continued: "Two years later, right before the next session, I was in the
Speaker's Committee Room waiting for several representatives to assemble for
some endorsement they were making. The female TV reporter in the next seat gave
me the elbow and said, â  Hey, have you noticed Rick Perry?'

"I looked up and realized the braces were gone, the hair had been restyled, and
he was wearing a beautiful suit. He stood there smoothing back his hair and
looking like a male model. She and I agreed he had undergone quite a
transformation."

In retrospect, it was a work in progress as Perry, through opportunity, talent
and, critics might say, luck and the U.S. Supreme Court, would grow to be the
dominant Texas Capitol politician of his era as the state moved from one kind of
one-party state to the other kind of one-party state.

After jumping to the GOP, Perry ousted Democratic Agriculture Commissioner Jim
Hightower in 1990 and won re-election in 1994. In 1998, he was elected
lieutenant governor in a narrow defeat of Democrat John Sharp, a victory that
made Perry governor two years later when America (in an election not over until
the U.S. Supreme Court ruled) made George W. Bush president.

Perry has been governor ever since, leaving a record that leaves few Texans
agnostic about him. There's no need here to offer judgment. You long ago made
your own about Texas' longest-serving governor.

Perry's imprint, through legislative achievements and appointees and ex-aides
sprinkled through state government, will endure a long time. He leaves office
satisfied that he's accomplished what he set out to do.

"From my perspective, if I had any big issues still in front of me that I wanted
to go accomplish, I would have run for re-election," he said.

Perry insists the change in party power doesn't reflect a change in basic
philosophy at the Capitol and in Texas. Conservatism reigns, he says, just like
it did when conservative Democrats (like freshman Rep. Rick Perry) ran the show.

"I just happen to think a better way to explain it is you have conservatives,
you have liberals and not a lot of middle-of-the roaders in Texas," he said.

Today's Texans, according to their governor, want what Texans long have wanted:
"It's still a relatively conservative state that wants to see government work.
They aren't anti-government. They want government to work. They want it to be
smaller. They want it to be less intrusive. It's the old classic â  keep our
taxes as low as you can, still deliver the services.'

"We want a regulatory climate that's fair and predictable, a legal system that
doesn't allow for over-suing, and accountable public schools," he said.

Presidency or prison?

And as we sat in the mansion, Perry was a man confident he's delivered on all
those things, things he'll shop around the country if, as expected, he runs for
president a second time. It's that probability that has him doing a mix of media
interviews these days. Texas journalists want him to talk retrospectively about
the gubernatorial years gone by. Washington journalists want him to talk
prospectively about the probable presidential race to come.

After my interview with Perry in a front room of the mansion, he walked across
the hall to sit down with CNN's Dana Bash, who took a Governor's Mansion
Hanukkah menorah photo with Perry.

The out-of-towners ask interesting questions, including this from MSNBC's Kasie
Hunt: "Are you smart enough to be president of the United States?"

Perry said, "Running for the presidency is not an IQ test." It is, he said, "a
test of an individual's resolve... philosophy... life's experiences."

Those experiences, if a special prosecutor has his way, could eventually include
prison time for Perry. Restricted, I'm sure, by his lawyers, Perry sticks to a
now-familiar refrain when reminded he faces up to 109 years in prison if
convicted of illegally threatening to veto money for the Travis County district
attorney's office.

"I think it will all get worked out in an appropriate way," said Perry. "I've
made my position pretty clear on it that a governor has a constitutional right
to veto a piece of legislation, regardless of what it is and regardless of for
what reason. I hope that's not put in jeopardy by a prosecutor that I happen to
think was overzealous. And so, soon, I think it will be behind us and we can
have a broader conversation about it."

Few regrets

Though clearly a polarizing, albeit successful, politician, Perry rejected the
notion that Texans who don't like him really, really don't like him. He noted
that longtime state Rep. Senfronia Thompson, D-Houston, and about as
philosophically different as possible from Perry, is a "very close personal
friend."

That's understandable. For the most part, the better political pros in the
Capitol are good at nurturing and maintaining relationships with their political
foes. It's outside the building where I hear bitter contempt for Perry. He says
he doesn't hear it.

"I go to lots of places. I put on my baseball cap and go to Julio's (a Central
Austin restaurant) and have enchiladas and a margarita from time to time, and
the people are respectful," he said. "And I'm pretty sure that part of Austin,
Texas, is not where I get my greatest amount of votes."

Because I knew you'd want to know, I asked the obvious follow-up question and
got this reply: "One is enough, particularly the Mexican margarita."

When I asked Perry to name a problem he'd solved as governor I got an answer
sure to be a hackle-raiser among abortion rights supporters and those disgusted
by his decision against Medicaid expansion.

"Access to health care," he said, "particularly along the Rio Grande. Prior to
2003, in those 19 counties, if you were a pregnant female you probably had to
leave that county to get prenatal care because of the propensity to see
frivolous lawsuits filed, particularly against the physicians in that region."

There are more doctors on the border and across the state because of tort reform
he championed, Perry said. Tort reform, he noted, has been touted by Dallas
Federal Reserve Bank President Richard Fisher as the "single most powerful
economic policy passed in the last decade."

Asked to name something he screwed up (and I specifically excluded his 2012
presidential campaign), Perry pointed to his dead-on-arrival effort for his
Trans-Texas Corridor highway and transportation system.

"There are a number of areas that I might have done something different
process-wise," he said.

Indeed, he made some bad choices, ranging from poorly picked legislative fights
to unfiltered, shoot-from-the-lip quips that became something of a trademark.
The former included an ill-fated 2007 effort, rebuffed by fellow Republicans, to
mandate anti-HPV (an infection that can lead to cervical cancer) injections for
girls. The injection was being pushed by a company whose lobbying team included
a former Perry aide.

A memorable quip came in 2000 when, as lieutenant governor, he told a state
trooper, "Why don't you just let us get on down the road" after Perry's driver
was pulled over for speeding. At the end of a 2005 TV interview, when he
probably thought the microphone was dead, he signed off with "Adios, mofo." He
later apologized for the "inappropriate banter."

In his first year as governor, he vetoed a state record 83 bills, upsetting
lawmakers, including some who complained Perry hadn't given fair warning that
could have led to legislation he would have approved. If nothing else, the
vetoes signaled Perry's arrival as a powerful leader not shy about using perhaps
the most sweeping power granted Texas governors.

Democratic candidate Tony Sanchez made the vetoes a big deal in the 2002
gubernatorial race. Perry slaughtered Sanchez.

For all his victories, it must be remembered that one of Perry's re-elections
came with support of fewer than four in 10 voters. In an unusual four-candidate
2006 election, Perry got 39 percent in defeating Democrat Chris Bell and
independents Kinky Friedman and Carole Keeton.

His legacy

For the governor part of Perry's life, all that's left is legacy.

"I think the legacy will be a young Texan who's graduating from college today
because they had access to financial aid who 10 years ago couldn't have afforded
to go to college," he said, citing an increase in financial aid.

"But more importantly than that, when they get out of school there's a job for
them, and that has occurred because, working with the Legislature, we put
policies into place to keep the taxes relatively light on the job creators, a
regulatory climate that's fair and predictable, a legal system that doesn't
allow for over-suing and continual education policies that make our schools more
accountable," he said, launching into stats about graduation rates, job creation
and South Texas truck drivers who make $100,000 a year.

You have your opinion on whether Texas is better off because Texans wanted him
to be their governor for so long. Like every leader headed out the door, Perry
is sure he's been an overwhelmingly positive influence.

But Texas still has too many poor people, too many underperforming schools, too
many people who struggle in a state where so many people are doing so well. The
new state leaders elected this year - Republicans all - reminded us of some of
that as they pitched their brand of education reform, transportation solutions,
tax cuts and other attractive promises.

And Perry remains unflinchingly positive about the most serious thing the state
does. Despite growing doubt in some circles, he's "very confident" Texas never
has executed an innocent person. Does the current system guarantee that won't
ever happen? "I am confident that the system, while I've been governor, has
worked well," he said.

Texas will continue to face obstacles, he said, predicting Gov.-elect Greg
Abbott will face challenges known and challenges unforeseeable.

"But, from my perspective," Perry said, "we addressed the issues that we faced."

kherman@statesman.com; 512 445-3907

Expert reporting
  American-Statesman columnist Ken Herman has been covering Texas politics
since 1979. Prior to joining the Statesman in 1995, he wrote for The Associated
 Press
  and The Houston Post at the Capitol.


Texas under Perry
  Gov. Rick Perry touts these advances in Texas since he became governor in
December 2000:

  Economy
  *  More than 1.8 million private-sector jobs added, greater than 30 percent
of all jobs in the U.S.
  *  Third in nation in personal income growth.
  *  Top exporting state.
  *  2003 constitutional amendment making it more difficult to pursue medical
lawsuits.
  Education
  *  On-time graduation rate for high school class of 2012 was 88 percent,
highest in state history.
  *  College enrollment increased by 55 percent, including 118 percent rise
among Hispanics.
  *  Undergraduate degrees and certificates awarded to Hispanics increased 228
percent.
  Crime
  *  State crime rate dropped to lowest level since 1968. Three prison units
have been closed.
  Infrastructure
  *  Highway lane miles increased by 6,600 lane miles, 3.5 percent.


The Perry file
  *  Born March 4, 1950, in Paint Creek.
  *  Elected to Texas House, 1984, 1986, 1988.
  *  Elected Texas agriculture commissioner, 1990, 1994.
  *  Elected lieutenant governor, 1998.
  *  Became governor Dec. 21, 2000, when Gov. George W. Bush resigned to become
 president.
  *  Elected governor 2002, 2004, 2010.
  *  Announced bid for GOP presidential nomination in South Carolina, August
2011.
  *  Ended bid for GOP presidential nomination in South Carolina, January 2012.
  *  Announced he would retire as governor at end of his current term, July
2013.
  *  Indicted for threatening to veto funding from Travis County district
attorney's office, August 2014.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

All that above-average warmth: What's up?

BYLINE: Patrick Beach American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 482 words


While some in New England were trying to remember which snowbank they'd parked
their cars in following record snows for the month of January, Central Texans
this week were running the air conditioning in their vehicles as they drove to
play golf or volleyball in shorts, all while doing what they do best: feeling a
little satisfied with themselves.

Austin's record high of 81 on Wednesday shattered the old record for this date -
79 degrees - set in 1970. It was just three degrees cooler than Acapulco's peak
temperature, although that destination still has us beat in the number of spots
for cliff diving. Give climate change a little time and we could narrow the
deficit in that department.

National Weather Service meteorologist Steve Smart says the unseasonable warmth
- Tuesday's high of 83 at Camp Mabry tied the record high for that date - is
thanks to a high-pressure system and southerly winds. The system stretches from
east of the Rockies to the northern High Plains down through Texas.

"We'll have abundant sunshine and unseasonable warm temperatures," Smart said
Wednesday. "If it was just one day it wouldn't have been this warm, but it's
been nice the past couple days and that allows the lower air temperatures to
heat up."

Better still, Smart said, if we establish a pattern of sustained rains that
replenish soil moisture followed by a reprieve followed by yet another rain, we
could one day crawl out of the drought that has plagued us for four years or
more.

"We kind of needed that," Smart said of last week's rains. "That's kind of a
nice cycle. It helps the farmers and the ranchers. We wouldn't need a heavy rain
event. That wouldn't fill the reservoirs, but you would start to see some rises
on rivers and creeks."

And some of that rain is still trickling into where it needs to be. The levels
for lakes Travis and Buchanan were at a combined 705,734 acre-feet Wednesday, up
from Tuesday's 704,216, according to Lower Colorado River Authority spokeswoman
Clara Tuma.

And guess what? We're looking at good chances for more rain this weekend after
another front arrives Friday night.

"Chances of rain are pretty good over the weekend," Smart said. "We'll have a
low-pressure system move in and that'll bring in the chance of precipitation to
about 65 percent on Saturday during the day and about 40 percent Sunday when the
system moves out of the area."

As far as allergens, our weather partners at KVUE reported cedar pollen at
medium levels of potential irritation (266 grains per cubic meter) and mold at
high levels Wednesday. Both are projected to be high Thursday and, with winds
shifting from southerly to out of the north-northwest, pollens from the Hill
Country could be headed our way.

So enjoy it while you can. And when things take a turn, as they always do,
remember your friends up north still don't like you very much right now.

Contact Patrick Beach

at 512-445-3603.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Who's on austin's health and human services, open space committees

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 267 words


As part of changing the way business gets done at City Hall, Austin's new City
Council adopted a slate of committees last month to allow more time for vetting
issues and hearing public comment. Four council members serve on each committee,
with the exception of the Austin Energy committee, which includes the entire
council. After examining a proposal, the committee sends it to the full council,
with or without a recommendation.

Here is more information on two of the 10 new committees:

health and human services committee

What it is: This committee oversees a range of issues, from social services to
public health to veterans' affairs. Matters involving sustainable food, at-risk
populations and animal welfare could also come before this panel.

Who's on it:

Ora Houston, chair

Kathie Tovo, vice chair

Delia Garza

Ellen Troxclair

When it meets: 4 p.m. on the first Monday of the month at the City Hall Council
Chambers, 301 W. Second St.

Staff contact:

Shannon Jones, Austin/Travis County Health and Human Services Department, (512)
972-5410

What it is: This committee oversees a range of environmental matters, from water
quality to climate change. It will also handle issues involving parks, forestry
and cemeteries.

Issues involving sustainability, including trash, recycling and compost, would
also come before this group,

Who's on it:

Leslie Pool, chair

Delia Garza, vice chair

Kathie Tovo

Don Zimmerman

When it meets: 2 p.m. on the fourth Wednesday of the month at the City Hall
Boards and Commissions Room, 301 W. Second St.

Staff contact:

Joe Pantalion, Watershed Protection & Development Review, (512) 974-3438

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Study: Clean tech is big boost

BYLINE: Brian Gaar American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 518 words


The clean technology sector contributes $2.5 billion annually to the Austin
area's economy and employs 20,000 people in Central Texas, according to a new
study released by city leaders and industry advocates Wednesday.

What's more, employment in the field is expected to grow 11 percent in the
Austin area by 2020, according to the study conducted by Austin-based Civic
Analytics, a development consulting firm, and the Austin Technology Incubator.

The study is the first attempt to quantify the clean energy sector in Central
Texas, said Mitch Jacobson, co-director of the Austin Technology Incubator's
clean energy incubator.

"We've all known for many years that there's something special happening here in
the Austin area with regard to clean technology, and now... we have proof and
facts - really compelling ones," Jacobson said.

He credited partnerships with local utility Austin Energy, Austin Technology
Incubator and University of Texas researchers, among others, in helping to grow
the sector.

The study defines the clean tech sector as "a set of technologies and services
developed across a number of industries in response to concerns about climate
change, energy security and resource depletion." That can include industries
ranging from smart grids, vehicles, water, recycling and manufacturing.

The sector employs nearly 20,000 people in the Austin metro area, which also
includes Georgetown, Round Rock and San Marcos. Employment is projected to grow
in the region at 11.24 percent by 2020, almost twice the national growth rate.
Previous research from a 2011 Brookings Institution report rated Austin's clean
tech economy 36th out of 100 metro areas, with 14,554 jobs attributed to
Austin's clean economy growing at a rate of 5.3 percent per year.

For context, about 1 million people in the Austin metro area were employed as of
April, and the metro area has an annual GDP of about $100 billion, according to
the Texas Workforce Commission.

Austin Mayor Steve Adler said it's "no surprise that Austin is a clean
technology hub."

"Our city's roots, as we all know, are deeply embedded in technology," he said.
"That's long been a real dominant and growing industry in our city. And we are
so close to the world energy hub, that is Houston, Texas. Now you bring together
both the tech and the energy industries, and in that nexus something grand and
big happens."

The growth of the sector, Adler said, doesn't happen by luck.

"An interconnected web of businesses and organizations, both public and private,
have contributed and (have been) deliberately orchestrating this industry,
designing this ecosystem for years now," he said.

Brian Kelsey, principal of Civic Analytics, said the study shows that "clean
tech is now part of Austin's economic development story and a fairly significant
piece of it."

"I think there's a lot of that story left to tell," he said. "I think there's
some work to do, in terms of defining Austin's competitive advantage versus some
other regions around the country, but I'm excited about the prospects for
continued research in this field."

Contact Brian Gaar at 512-912-5932.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 3, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Limits on watering could be indefinite

BYLINE: Andra Lim American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 804 words


While the recent downpours have boosted lake levels, Austin officials say they
have no plans to ease the city's once-a-week lawn watering restrictions.

In fact, they're talking about making them permanent.

The city is supposed to consider ending so-called Stage 2 water restrictions -
which limit watering to once a week, among other conservation measures - when
the combined storage in lakes Travis and Buchanan is at least 1.1 million
acre-feet and is projected to stay above 900,000 acre-feet for four months.

The lakes have cleared those thresholds: As of Monday, their combined storage
was 1.42 million acre-feet, according to a city memo. And their storage is not
expected to fall below 900,000 acre-feet for the rest of the year, which is as
far as the Lower Colorado River Authority's projections run, said Daryl Slusher,
an Austin Water Utility assistant director.

Other Central Texas cities, such as Round Rock and Pflugerville, have lifted or
loosened watering rules in recent weeks. But the Austin Water Utility is wary of
moving to lighter water restrictions in the heart of summer, Slusher said, which
is when the city sees water demand peak.

Slusher also said large downpours have historically been temporary respites in
the middle of a drought - and not the end of a drought. Major rainfall in 1952
briefly interrupted the 1950s drought, and a bout of rain in 2010 did the same
in the recent drought, Slusher said.

"It's too easy to forget how dire things can get when it rains," Slusher said.

And there's a question mark hanging over Austin's water supply: The Lower
Colorado River Authority, which distributes water from lakes Travis and
Buchanan, has a new water management plan pending before a state commission. The
plan would prioritize water supply for Austin and some other customers by
putting in place higher triggers for releasing reservoir water to downstream
farmers and limiting how much water can be released, assistant city attorney
Ross Crow said.

The Austin Water Utility is suggesting permanently limiting watering to one day
a week, a shift that would need the City Council's blessing. Slusher said the
utility wouldn't push the change forward without several months of consultation
and discussion.

If the city went that route, he said, the utility would still consider easing up
on its water use rules in other areas, such as patio misters, fountains and car
washing.

City Manager Marc Ott said in a memo this week that a permanent adoption of
once-a-week watering rules would acknowledge that Central Texas is still in "a
long-term drought or even a permanent shift in climate" and that conserving
water is a "strong community value." He directed the utility to bring forward
such a proposal "as soon as possible."

The city has had a permanent cap of twice-a-week watering since 2007, which
means that, even when the lakes are full, Austin residents and businesses would
still face some kind of water restrictions.

But because of the drought, the city has temporarily mandated once-a-week
watering almost continuously since September 2011, an effort that has saved
about 76,000 acre-feet of water, Austin Water Utility spokesman Jason Hill said.
An acre-foot of water is about the amount of water used by four average Austin
households in a year.

The Austin Water Utility's five-year budget forecast assumed that once-a-week
watering would continue and projected that water rates would increase by 18.8
percent over that period, in part to offset the lost revenue from declining
water use and to pay for fixed costs associated with delivering water.

Paul Robbins, a local environmental activist and consumer advocate, said
continuing once-a-week watering would save the city money, pointing to the fact
that Austin has to start making payments to the LCRA after it hits a certain
amount of water usage a year. The city hasn't yet set off the trigger.

Other Texas cities, such as Dallas and Fort Worth, are no longer under any
drought watering restrictions - but because they've enacted permanent
twice-a-week watering rules, customers are still limited as to when they can
water their lawns.

In the bigger picture, "it does mean that we can extend the life of the existing
supplies we have," said Mary Gugliuzza, a Fort Worth Water Department
spokeswoman.

Contact Andra Lim

at 512-445-3972.

Twitter: @AndraCLim

When can you water?
  Under the Stage 2 watering restrictions, Austin residents can run their
automatic sprinklers before 5 a.m. or after 7 p.m. on their designated watering
 day: Thursday for addresses ending in an even number, Wednesday for those
ending in an odd number. Hose-end sprinklers can be used before 10 a.m. or
after 7 p.m.
  on Sunday (for even addresses)
  or Saturday (odd addresses).
  For the full list of rules, visit
  austintexas.gov/department/stage-2-watering-restrictions.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 19, 2015 Sunday
                                 State Edition

THE ARTS SCENE

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 290 words


Art

"Sun Spots." A group exhibition in a variety of media that all play with color
and chromatic elements. Opening: 8 to 10 p.m. Friday. Continues through Aug. 15.
Big Medium Gallery, Canopy, 916 Springdale Road. Free. 512-939-6665.
bigmedium.org.

"From Mountains to Sea." A contemporary art exhibit about the science and
effects of climate change from a participatory art project that invites the
public to contribute to tracking and plotting real-time data from the Keeling
Curve of carbon dioxide concentration on Mauna Loa, Hawaii. Opening: 7 to 10
p.m. Saturday. Continues through Aug. 29. Art Science Gallery, Canopy, 916
Springdale Road. 512-522-8278. artsciencegallery.com.

Contact Jeanne Claire van Ryzin at 512-445-3699.

'Hairspray'

This summer's free musical in Zilker Park is the Tony Award-winning story about
1960s teens who integrate a television dance show. 8:15 p.m. Thursdays-Sundays
through Aug. 15. Zilker Hillside Theater, Zilker Park, 2201 Barton Springs Road.
Free. Parking: $5 per car Saturdays and Sundays. 512-479-9491, zilker.org. Aug.
8 show will be ASL interpreted for the hearing-impaired.

If you go
  On Saturdays and Sundays, the city of Austin charges $5 per car for parking
in Zilker Park.
  Blankets may be placed on the hillside beginning at 6 p.m.
  Low-height, low-backed portable chairs are allowed only on the second level
of the hillside. Full-height lawn chairs are allowed only along the walls at
the top of the amphitheater.
  Pets are not allowed.
  Picnic baskets and coolers are welcome. No alcohol or glass containers.
Concession stands available.
  "Hairspray" runs about 2½ hours, including a 15-minute intermission.
  Rain or the possibility of rain? Call the Zilker Theatre Productions at
512-479-9491.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 28, 2015 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

ARTS CALENDAR

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 2203 words


Theater and dance

"Gusev." An adaption of the classic Chekov short story with a twist. 8 p.m.
Friday and Saturday. Closes Saturday. Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803 Manor Road.
$15-$30. 512-761-3247, breakingstring.com.

"Hunger." A one-woman performance by spoken-word artist Ebony Stewart. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday through Sept. 5. Vortex, 2307 Manor Road. $10-$30.
512-478-5282, vortexrep.org.

"Two Souls and a Promise and Crossing the Rio." A comedy play that explores
reincarnation with a twist. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday and 2 p.m. Sunday. $15.
Emma S. Barrientos Mexican American Cultural Center, 600 River St. 512-474-6379,
teatrovivo.org.

"Year of the Rooster." Cap T Theater stages Eric Dufaults fierce and funny
off-Broadway 2013 hit about the subculture of American cockfighting. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday through Sept. 19. Hyde Park Theater, 511 W. 43rd St. $20-$30.
capitalt.org

Literary events

Patricia Ruth, Laura McCarty and Penny Bagby. Discuss "My Mother, My Daughter,
My Sister, My Self." 7 p.m. Friday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050,
bookpeople.com.

Anna Badkhen. In conversation with Ben Fountain about Badkhen's "Walking with
Abel." 3 p.m. Saturday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050,
bookpeople.com.

Venessa Kimball. Signs "Ascending the Veil." 2 p.m. Saturday. Barnes & Noble
Arboretum, 10000 Research Blvd. 512-418-8985,
store-locator.barnesandnoble.com/event/4870951-0.

Sue Grafton. Speaks and signs "X." 7 p.m. Monday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.
512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Corey Taylor and Randy Blythe. Speak and sign "You're Making Me Hate You"
(Taylor) and "Dark Days" (Blythe). 7 p.m. Tuesday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar
Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Jenn McAllister. Meet and greet with author of "Really Professional Internet
Person." 6 p.m. Wednesday. $16.23. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050,
bookpeople.com.

Ingrid Law. Speaks and signs "Switch." 7 p.m. Thursday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar
Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Art

Art Science Gallery. "From Mountains To Sea." An exhibit that explores the
science and effects of climate change. Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday (noon to
5:45 p.m. Thursday). Closes Saturday. 916 Springdale Road, Building 2 No. 102.
512-522-8278, artsciencegallery.com.

Austin Art Garage. "Tales of Heartbreak and Hope." New works by Lauren Briere.
11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon-5 p.m. Sunday. 512-351-5934,
austinartgarage.com.

Big Medium at Canopy. "Sun Spots." A group exhibition in a variety of media.
Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday. 916 Springdale Road, Building 2, No. 101.
bigmedium.org.

Blanton Museum of Art. "Natalie Frank: The Brothers Grimm." An exhibition of
more than 30 drawings by artist Natalie Frank. Through Nov. 15. "Impressionism
and the Caribbean: Francisco Oller and His Transatlantic World." A exhibition of
paintings by renowned Puerto Rican painter Francisco Oller along with work by
Cezanne, Pissaro and Monet. Through Sept. 6. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday;
11 a.m to 5 p.m. Saturday; 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Third Thursday of the month open
until 9 p.m. $5-$9; free on Thursdays. Blanton Museum of Art, 200 E. Martin
Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-471-7324, blantonmuseum.org.

Bullock Texas State History Museum. "And Still We Rise: Race, Culture and Visual
Conversations." Featuring artists from the Women of Color Quilters Network, this
exhibit charts four centuries of African-American history with more than 50
handcrafted contemporary story quilts. "Reflections: African American Life from
the Myrna Colley-Lee Collection." Selected from the private art collection of
Myrna Colley-Lee - one of the foremost costume designers in the Black Theatre
Movement - comes a gathering of mostly figurative and representational art that
reflects the African-American experience by noted modern and contemporary
artists. Closes Sunday. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday.
Bullock Texas State History Museum, 1900 N. Congress Ave. $8-$12. 512-936-8746,
thestoryoftexas.com.

The Contemporary Austin, Jones Center. Installation works by Robert Therrien. 11
a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday. Closes Sunday. 700
Congress Ave. $3-$5 (free on Tuesdays). 512-453-5312, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

The Contemporary Austin, Laguna Gloria. "The Stairs," installation by Monika
Sosnowska. "Looking Up," sculpture by Tom Friedman. "Canopy Tower," installation
by John Grade. Grounds hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday; 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Sunday. Gallery hours: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday. $3-$5. 3809 W.
35th St. 512-458-8191, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

Davis Gallery. "Terrachroma." Landscapes by Denise Fulton and Mark Nesmith. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Sept. 26.
837 W. 12th St. 512-477-4929, davisgalleryaustin.com.

Dedrick-Hamilton House. "I Am Black Austin." A multimedia exhibition that
spotlights African-Americans in Austin. 912 E. 11th St. iamblackaustin.org.

Flatbed Press and Gallery. "Sightings." Screen prints and collages by Jeffrey
Dell. Through Oct. 17. "Rhapsody of Beats." New works by Michael McWillie.
Artist's reception 6 to 8 p.m. Friday. Closes Monday. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday, or by appointment. 2832 E. Martin
Luther King Blvd. 512-477-9328, flatbedpress.com.

George Washington Carver Museum and Cultural Center. "John Yancey: Can U See," a
solo show of new paintings by the longtime University of Texas art professor. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Friday, and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Oct. 17. 1165 Angelina St.
512-974-4926, austintexas.gov.

Georgetown Arts Center. "Retrofit: Samantha Parker Salazar." Like brilliant
cyclones of delicately cut paper, Samantha Parker Salazar's enormous
installation works seemingly whirl off gallery walls and ceilings. Gallery
hours: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday through Sept. 27.
Georgetown Art Center, 816 S. Main St., Georgetown. Free. 512-930-2583,
georgetownartcentertx.org.

Grayduck Gallery. "The Only Knowledge Worth Possessing." In partnership with the
Contemporary Austin, the gallery presents multimedia works from various artists
of the 2015 Crit Group Program. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, noon to 5
p.m. Sunday through Sept. 13. 2213 E. Cesar Chavez St. Free. 512-826-5334,
grayduckgallery.com.

Harry Ransom Center. "Frank Reaugh: Landscapes of Texas and the American West."
An exhibition of more than 200 works from the distinguished landscape artist. 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday (Thursday until 7 p.m.), noon to 5 p.m. Saturday
and Sunday through Nov. 29. Harry Ransom Center, 300 W. 21st St. Free.
512-471-8944, hrc.utexas.edu.

LBJ Presidential Library. "Ladies and Gentlemen...the Beatles!" The traveling
exhibit curated by the Grammy Museum and Fab Four Exhibits features more than
400 pieces of memorabilia, records, rare photographs, tour artifacts, video and
instruments. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily through Jan. 10. 512-721-0200,
lbjlibrary.org.

Lora Reynolds Gallery. New work by Troy Brauntuch, Andy Coolquitt and Jeff
Williams. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday through Sept. 5. 360 Nueces St.,
Suite 50. 512-215-4965, lorareynolds.com.

Modern Rocks Gallery. Nirvana "Nevermind" outtake photographs by Kirk Weddle. 11
a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday. Ongoing. 916 Springdale Road, Canopy Building
3, Unit 103. 512-524-1488, modernrocksgallery.com.

North Hills Gallery. "An Experiment in Collage." An exhibition of collages with
watercolor and water media. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m. to noon
Friday and 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sunday. Closes Sunday. 7050 Village Center
Drive. 512-345-4546, nwhillsumc.org.

Umlauf Sculpture Garden & Museum. "Eve & Shiva: Sculpture by Charles Umlauf and
Gene Owens." 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 4 p.m. Saturday and
Sunday. Closes Sunday. 605 Robert E. Lee Road. Admission is free through Aug.
30. umlaufsculpture.org.

Wally Workman Gallery. "35th Anniversary Show." The gallery will showcase
selected works from their represented artists. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday-Saturday. Closes Saturday. 1202 W. Sixth St. 512-472-7428,
wallyworkmangallery.com.

Women and Their Work. "Glittering Dystopias." New work by Kira Lynn Harris. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday. Closes Saturday. 1710
Lavaca St. 512-477-1064, womenandtheirwork.org.

Music

"An Evening of Bach." Favorite Austin vocalist Stephanie Prewitt is accompanied
by harpsichordist Gregory Eaton and flutist Megan Meisenbach for a program
spotlighting arias and sonatas of J.S. Bach. 7:30 p.m. Friday. All Saints
Episcopal Church, 209 W. 27th St. Free. stephanieprewitt.com.

Arts
  Blanton Museum
  "Donald Moffett." Installation of newly acquired works by San Antonio native
Donald Moffett. Opens Saturday. Through Feb. 28. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday-Friday; 11 a.m to 5 p.m. Saturday; 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Third Thursday
of the month open until 9 p.m. $5-$9; free on Thursdays. Blanton Museum of Art,
 200 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-471-7324, blantonmuseum.org.
  North Hills Gallery
  "Sacred Illuminations." New works by Tatiana Nikolova-Houston. Opens
Wednesday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sunday
through Oct. 1. Opening reception: 12:15 p.m.-1:15 p.m. Sept. 6. North Hills
Gallery, 7060 Village Center Drive. 512-345-4546, nwhillsumc.org.
  Theater
  "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum"
  Set in Rome, this musical comedy tells the story of Pseudolos, a clever
slave, who attempts to win over a beautiful woman for his young master in
exchange for his freedom. Opens 8 p.m. Friday. Continues 8 p.m. Thursday
-Saturday, 5:30 p.m. Sunday through Sept. 20. $25. The City Theatre, 3823
Airport Blvd. Suite D. 512-524-2870. citytheatreaustin.org.
  Dance
  "The Book of Goddesses in Music and Dance"
  Chaski and Psophonia Dance Company present a production of the chamber work
of Robert Paterson, composer of the year at Carnegie Hall,, featuring harpist
Shana Norton and percussionist Matthew McClung. 4 p.m. Sunday. Free and open to
 the public. Sarofim School of Fine Arts, Southwestern University, 1001 E.
University Ave. Georgetown. southwestern.edu.
  Strategy and Horsehair
  Ground Floor Theatre presents a exploration of the Horse Warrior Culture,
with a live musical score by local musician Justin Sherburn. 8 p.m.
Wednesday-Thursday and Sept. 4; 4 p.m. Sept. 5. Free on Wednesday; $15- $50.
Ground Floor Theater, 979 Springdale Road. strategyandhorsehair.com.


Austin Java Parkway. "Sure Thing," a weekly comedy show. 8 p.m. Saturday. Free.
 1206 Parkway. 512-476-1829, facebook.com/SureThingATX.
  Cap City Comedy Club. Mary Lynn Rajskub, 8 and 10:30 p.m. Friday and
Saturday, $17. "Dudley and Bob + Matt: Live Sideshow," 8 p.m. Thursday, $15.
8120 Research Blvd., No. 100. 512-467-2333, capcitycomedy.com.
  Esther's Follies. The election season keeps getting more and more ridiculous
and you can bet the Esther's ensemble members are licking their chops. This
month's top target is Donald Trump (complete with piñata). The crew also takes
on Texas textbooks, schooling us on Jesus and the dinosaurs. As if that wasn't
enough, magician Ray Anderson debuts a new levitation illusion, "Torched." 8
p.m. Thursdays, 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays, Esther's Follies
Theater, 525 E. Sixth St. $25-$35. 512-320-0553, esthersfollies.com.
  The Institution Theater. Improv and off-beat theater. "(expletive), it's
Hot," 8 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays. 'The Source," 10 p.m. Fridays.
"Impromp-Two," 7 p.m. Sundays. "The Rubber Room," 8 p.m. Sundays. Free-$10.
3708 Woodbury Drive. 512-895-9580, theinstitutiontheater.com.
  Joe Rogan. The stand-up comic, conspiracy theorist and former "Fear Factor"
host lands in Austin at the end of the month. Or does he? Maybe he's just a
hologram - or a robot! Perhaps he was killed in a bizarre gardening accident
and replaced with a duplicate. 8 p.m. Saturday. ACL Live, 310 Willie Nelson
Blvd. $38. 877-435-9849, acl-live.com.
  The New Movement. "Pass the Mic," 8 p.m. Sunday. Plus more improv and
stand-up shows throughout the week. $5-$10. The New Movement, 616 Lavaca St.
512-696-2590, newmovementtheater.com.
  Out of Bounds Comedy Festival. Every Labor Day weekend for the past dozen
years has found comics from Texas and beyond gathering in Austin to entertain
us locals (and each other). What started as a smallish improv gathering with a
dash of sketch comedy at the Hideout has become, in its 13th year, a weeklong
celebration of improv, sketch and stand-up at a host of venues throughout the
city. That's a lotta laughter, people. Hey - where else are you going to find a
 10-year-old female stand-up from Mesquite, a comedy troupe called "Daaang Judi
 Dench," MadTV's Stephnie Weir, and the 15th anniversary reunion of Austin
improv legends Fatbuckle? Tuesday-Sept. 7. Festival passes, $119-$129;
individual show tickets available; outofboundscomedy.com.
  The Velveeta Room. Sad Trombone with Avery Moore, $5, 11 p.m. Friday. Eric
Krug with Yusef Roach, $10, 9 p.m. Friday and 9 and 11 p.m. Saturday. Speed
Mic, $5, 9 p.m. Thursday. 521 E. Sixth St. 512-469-9116, thevelveetaroom.com.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Report: Fracking polluted UT lands

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 938 words


The hydraulic fracturing boom on University of Texas

System lands in West Texas has polluted soil, groundwater and air, according to
a report to be released Tuesday by an environmental group and a think tank.

At least 1.6 million gallons of oil, salt water and other pollutants have
spilled from wells and associated equipment on UT System-owned land since 2008,
said the report, which drew from system and Texas Railroad Commission records.

In addition, the report said, vast quantities of methane, which is linked to
global warming, have been released by the 4,132 wells drilled since 2005 that
were subjected to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which huge amounts of
water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure to create fractures in
rock that coax oil and natural gas out of the ground.

The report, by the Austin-

based Environment Texas Research & Policy Center and the Frontier Group, based
in Santa Barbara, Calif., called on the UT System to prohibit

fracking on its lands. Failing that, the report said, the system should write
much stronger environmental protections into its lease agreements with oil and
gas companies.

More broadly, the UT System should re-examine its efforts to wring ever-greater

amounts of hydrocarbons from its land holdings, said Luke Metzger, director of
Environment Texas and co-author of the report.

"Scientists are telling us that we urgently need to wean ourselves off fossil
fuels to stave off some of the worst impacts of climate change, not to mention
more localized impacts such as air pollution and significant water use," Metzger
said. "We think there's a growing responsibility for institutions like UT to
lead the way."

Mark Houser, CEO of the UT System's University Lands Office, said in an emailed
statement that he has not seen the report and therefore could not address its
specifics.

"However, University Lands has numerous provisions in place to protect the
natural resources and to ensure that companies developing these resources are
compliant with the environmental protections and the regulations developed by
the Texas Railroad Commission, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and
other state and federal regulations," he said.

"In addition," Houser said, "we have an ongoing dialogue with area landowners,
community

members and industry leaders to ensure we have the most effective policies in
place to protect the environment. We are committed to being the best possible
stewards of these lands while at the same time developing them for the benefit
of the University of Texas and Texas A&M systems and public higher education in
the state of Texas."

Metzger said his group was prompted to look into oil and gas operations on UT
System lands by an American-Statesman article in November about the drilling
bonanza that has boosted revenues even as it has raised environmental concerns
and questions about the system's oversight.

Annual royalty payments and other proceeds from companies that lease mineral
rights from the UT System increased 400 percent since 2006 to a record $1.1
billion last year, owing in large part to fracking and horizontal drilling
techniques that have unlocked resources once thought out of reach.

The system's 2.1 million acres, three-fourths of them in an oil patch known as
the Permian Basin, were a gift from the state, an educational endowment
established in the 1800s. Proceeds from the lands benefit campuses in the UT
System and the Texas A&M University System.

Documents used to produce the report, "Fracking on University of Texas Lands,"
were obtained through an open records request by the office of state Rep. Eddie
Rodriguez, D-Austin.

"Fracking threatens the lands, resources and health of too many Texans,"
Rodriguez said. "I hope university leaders, energy producers and environmental
experts act quickly and creatively

to eliminate bad industry

practices that threaten our health and environment."

Among the report's findings on the impacts of fracking and related activities:

* Scores of spills have taken place on system-owned land since 2008, with most
of them tainting soil and several affecting groundwater. Causes included
equipment breakdowns, corroded pipes, power outages, lightning strikes and
vandalism. Although cleanups have been completed at all but five sites, some of
those projects take years.

* Fracking involves the use of vast quantities of toxic chemicals. Wells drilled
on UT System lands from 2005 to 2015 used more than 275.6 million pounds of
chemicals, including hydrochloric acid, methanol and other substances identified
in the records only as trade secrets.

* Completing the 4,132 fracked wells released methane equivalent to between
244,000 and 7 million metric tons of carbon dioxide, depending on the method
used to estimate emissions. That's as much as 50,000 to 1.5 million cars emit a
year.

* As the pace of drilling increased, water use at wells on university lands rose
dramatically - from fewer than 1 billion gallons in 2012 to 2.6 billion in 2013
and 2.9 billion in 2014 - even as government officials across the state pressed
residents to reduce water use during the drought.

The report called on the UT System to issue an annual report on disposal of
wastewater and drill cuttings, ban toxic chemicals, prohibit drilling on
environmentally sensitive land such as endangered species habitat, require air
pollution control equipment, and mandate wastewater recycling and water-use
reductions. It also recommended requiring lighting equipment - drilling
operations run day and night - that protects evening skies for stargazing.

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 12, 2015 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-DA Bradley disputes report of suspension

BYLINE: Claire Osborn American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 404 words


Former Williamson County Attorney John Bradley disputed a report that he has
been suspended for 10 days from his job as attorney general in the Republic of
Palau.

The vice president of Palau suspended Bradley on Tuesday for insubordination,
according to an article in the Island Times, one of the country's newspapers.
Palau is a tiny nation of 250 islands in the western Pacific southeast of the
Philippines.

Palau Vice President Antonio Bells issued a notice saying Bradley was suspended
because Bradley was not authorized to nominate a special prosecutor to attend a
gathering of the Pacific Islands Law Officers Network in the Solomon Islands,
the newspaper said. The special prosecutor ended up going to the network
meeting.

The story was first picked up in Texas by the Grits for Breakfast blog.

Bradley, who was contacted via email by Friday by the American-Statesman, said
he was not suspended. "I'm on vacation," he said. "Don't believe everything you
read."

Bradley said he was on a three-week vacation with his wife that includes a
seven-day whitewater rafting trip in Australia.

"The president of Palau, who appointed me and is the only person who lawfully
supervises my work, has reassured me that he approves of my work and decisions,"
Bradley said Friday. "This is a developing country, and there are bound to be
disagreements on the road to democracy. That's one reason I was appointed - to
assist in the growth of a modern attorney general office."

The article in the Island Times said Bradley sent Bell a letter Tuesday saying
Bell had illegally suspended him. In the letter, it says, Bradley said that
under his contract, suspension without pay was not an option.

Bradley also said in the letter, according to the newspaper, that the president
of Palau had withheld in writing any authority for Bell to take action on
personnel matters while the president was attending the climate change
conference in Paris.

Bradley was hired as attorney general in Palau in 2014.

He was the Williamson County district attorney from 2001 until 2012, when he
lost the election to then-County Attorney Jana Duty.

Bradley had a tough-on-crime reputation, but his handling of the 2005 Michael
Morton appeal cost him support.

He fought DNA testing that ultimately exonerated Morton, who had been wrongfully
convicted for the 1986 death of his wife and spent nearly 25 years in prison

Contact Claire Osborn at 512-246-0040.

Twitter: @cosbo4

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

How a gift made its way from Austin to Adelaide

BYLINE: Andra Lim American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 202 words


A top government official secretly took two precious gems on an international
trip this month.

This could be part of a global story of intrigue, but it's what happened when
Austin Mayor Steve Adler traveled to Paris for the United Nations Climate Change
Conference.

Adler and Council Member Leslie Pool returned a large opal broach to Lord Mayor
Martin Haese of Adelaide, Austin's Australian sister city.

Earlier this year, the Adelaide City Council ordered a city official to inquire
about getting the opal back if it was just gathering dust in Austin. The South
Australian city gave the opal to Austin in 1983, and over the years several
mayors' wives wore it to formal events. But for the past several years the gem,
reported to be worth tens of thousands of dollars, has been locked up in a safe
deposit box in Austin.

Adler said the lord mayor asked if the opal could be returned while they were
all at the Paris conference.

Adler said he also brought a second and smaller opal with him. The opal was
found with the Adelaide opal, he said.

Adler said the Adelaide lord mayor will do some digging in his city, and if the
second opal wasn't from Adelaide, it will be returned to Austin.

Contact Andra Lim

at 512-445-3972.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ridership taking hit on fare increases

BYLINE: Ben Wear American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 965 words


There was a time, a quarter-century ago, when Capital Metro decided that its
services were priceless. The transit agency stopped charging for bus rides in
1989.

The results, for ridership, were stimulating: a 70 percent jump in one year, to
31.2 million boardings. And the revenue loss, given that the base fare had been
50 cents a ride and that the agency had so many discounted and free fares
already, was only a few million dollars.

But a year later, after complaints that transients were using the climate
-controlled buses as rent-free mobile homes, Capital Metro reinstituted the old
fares. Oddly, ridership fell just 12 percent in 1991, leaving it about 9 million
a year above what it had been before the free-fare period. The
get-'em-in-the-door experiment apparently worked.

Those prices sat there unchanged, more or less, until 2008. Since then, they've
pretty much done nothing but change.

On Sunday, Capital Metro fares increased pretty much across the board by about
25 percent, the fifth time in the past eight years that some or all local bus
and rail prices have gone up. A one-way bus fare is now $1.25, up from a buck
last week, and the 31-day basic bus pass, which was $33, hit $41.25.

The increase is even more stark if you go back six years, before that first
change. The base fare is up 150 percent, while inflation over those years was
less than 15 percent. The 31-day basic pass, just $10 before all this started in
2008, is more than 300 percent higher. A 31-day pass to ride express buses from
the suburbs to downtown, $17 in 2008, is now $96.25, a 466 percent increase.

That pass also allows you to ride MetroRail, an option that didn't exist until
2010. A one-way ride on the train, originally set at $1.50 in 2008 (long before
opening), is now $3.50, a 133 percent increase.

Hardest hit are people with certain disabilities that qualify them for the
agency's door-to-door van service, called MetroAccess. In 2008, they could buy a
10-ride booklet for $3. Those 10 rides, after today's increase, now cost $17.50,
a 483 percent increase.

And people with disabilities and those 65 years and older, who once enjoyed free
fares on regular buses, have been paying half-price fares since 2011.

So what to make of this much more expensive transit?

Capital Metro finds itself trying to balance its primary mission - moving as
many people as possible - with money needs.

The move toward higher fares originated in 2006 and 2007, when the agency's
finance staff told the Capital Metro board that prices needed to go up because
the authority's "fare recovery rate" - the percent of operating costs covered by
fares - was so much lower than other transit agencies around Texas and the
country.

In fiscal 2008, when the agency's annual operating expenses were $163.6 million,
fares brought in $13.2 million, or about 8.1 percent. Revenue from the agency's
1 percent sales tax, along with some federal grants, covered the rest of the
cost of carrying people.

The agency's chief financial officer at the time said Capital Metro needed
higher fares to move toward a fare recovery rate close to 20 percent.

As you'll see below, that hasn't happened.

Actually, the real trouble was that, for the first time in its history (21

years at the time), Capital Metro no longer had more money than it needed.

Until then, the healthy tax revenue had allowed it to run its buses and still
stockpile several million dollars at the end of each fiscal year. Hard to ask
your mostly low-income customers to pay more when that's the case.

What staffers had realized by 2006, although they were shy about sharing it with
the public, was that with MetroRail and other facilities under construction,
money was about to get tight.

By early 2009, even with that first fare increase, the agency's savings account
had quickly fallen from more than $200 million to $4 million, and expenses were
due to go up when the rail line opened.

So we had fare increases in 2008 and 2010 (seven months earlier than first
approved, to raise even more money), 2011 (although this set of changes included
a MetroRail fare decrease in what turned out to be a successful effort to goose
ridership on the new, struggling rail line), 2014 and now this one.

The effect on revenue has been impressive: Capital Metro expects $22.8 million
in fare receipts this year, about 73 percent more than what came in seven years
ago before the price increases began.

But that 20 percent fare recovery target remains a dream.

Expenses have likewise gone up, to $222.8 million this year, meaning fares will
cover about 10.2 percent.

The recovery rate is even worse for MetroRail, 8.4 percent last year.

The year-old MetroRapid bus service is at 5.8 percent, agency spokeswoman
Francine Pares said.

The effect of higher prices on ridership, meanwhile, has been substantial.

In the 2007-08 fiscal year, before the increases, Capital Metro hit its all-time
high of 35.4 million annual riders. In 2013-14, there were 33.2 million
boardings, down 6.2 percent. The agency expects another 1.2 percent dip this
fiscal year, to 32.8 million.

Yes, the agency has $9.6 million a year more in fare revenue than it was
collecting in 2008.

And the higher fares are still technically a huge bargain, given the massive tax
subsidy and the higher cost in many

cases to take a car instead.

But ridership this year, assuming Capital Metro's estimate from September holds
up, will be just 5 percent above that figure in free-to-ride 1990, and Austin's
population has almost doubled in the quarter-century since then.

With gas selling for less than $2 a gallon, that car in the garage has become a
more attractive option for a significant number of people.

Capital Metro might have to choose whether it wants to maximize money in the
bank or bodies on the bus.

Contact Ben Wear

at 512-445-3698.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 27, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

UT fraternity won't be punished for party

BYLINE: Compiled from staff,wire reports

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 463 words


Administrators at the University of Texas say no rules were violated at a
February fraternity party that reportedly had a "Border Patrol" theme, with
party-goers wearing ponchos, sombreros and hard hats with "Jefe" and "Pablo
Sanchez" written on them.

The university's determination was made public Thursday, as records surfaced
that showed the same fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, had hosted a similar party in
2014 that had also been the subject of a complaint.

While disappointing and offensive, the fraternity's parties last year and this
year did not violate a university rule and therefore warranted no punishment,
said Soncia Reagins-Lilly, UT's senior associate vice president and dean of
students.

There are limitations on punishing off-campus activities that involve freedom of
expression, she said. The parties took place at the fraternity house west of
campus.

University officials nevertheless have discussed the perils of themed parties
with the fra-

ternity, Reagins-Lilly said. She added that UT strives for ongoing education on
such matters because fraternities and other student groups continually change
leaders.

Records released to The Associated Press show a complaint filed in January 2014
contends that members of Phi Gamma Delta, also known as Fiji, wore
"stereotypical Mexican clothing" like sombreros, ponchos and mariachi outfits to
a party at their house.

The complaint was filed with the Campus Climate Response Team, part of the
school's Office of Diversity and Community Engagement.

The fraternity threw a similar party Feb. 7 and more than 20 people complained
following that gathering. The fraternity has since apologized.

Hundreds of people gathered at a rally and march two weeks ago to protest the
party and overall cultural insensitivity on campus.

Veronica Rivera, one of the organizers of the rally, said many similar parties
had been held during her time at the university.

Rivera said she wrote a letter to the administration two years ago to address
parties that were insensitive to Native Americans and Latinos.

Rivera, who is part of the Latino Community Affairs group at the school's
Multicultural Engagement Center, said she and other student organizers have met
with UT administrators, including the Campus Climate Response Team, to talk
about the party, but added that the university's response was slow.

The fraternity, on the other hand, has met with Rivera's Latino Community
Affairs group several times since the party and has been very responsive, Rivera
said.

"They're more willing to really prove that they are learning to serve as a role
model and example for what other organizations should be," Rivera said.

Staff writers James Barragan and Ralph K.M. Haurwitz contributed to this report,
which contains material from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 17, 2015 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

Movies

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T42

LENGTH: 2614 words


OPENING FRIDAY

"Ex Machina"

Grade: B, reviewed page 33

"Monkey Kingdom"

Grade: B, reviewed page 36

"Roar"

Grade: C-, reviewed page 35

"The Squeeze"

Grade: D-, reviewed page 38

"True Story"

Grade: B-, reviewed page 34

NOT REVIEWED

"Child 44." R. 137 min. A disgraced member of the military police investigates a
series of child murders during the Stalin-era Soviet Union. Starring: Tom Hardy,
Gary Oldman, Noomi Rapace. Cinemark Galleria, Tinseltown Pflugerville.

"Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2." PG. 94 min. After six years of keeping our malls safe,
Paul Blart has earned a well-deserved vacation. He heads to Vegas with his
teenage daughter before she heads off to college. But safety never takes a
holiday, and when duty calls, Blart answers. Starring: Kevin James, Raini
Rodriguez, Eduardo Ver(degrees)stegui. Alamo Lakeline, Alamo Slaughter, Alamo
Village, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark
Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Highland,
Lakeline Mall, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Westgate.

"Unfriended." R. 82 min. A group of online chat room friends find themselves
haunted by a mysterious, supernatural force using the account of their dead
friend. Starring: Heather Sossaman, Matthew Bohrer, Courtney Halverson. Alamo
Lakeline, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark
Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Highland,
Lakeline Mall, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Westgate.

NOW PLAYING

"A Girl Walks Home Alone." Grade: A-. Unrated. 101 min. In the Iranian
ghost-town Bad City, a place that reeks of death and loneliness, the townspeople
are unaware they are being stalked by a lonesome vampire. Violet Crown.

"American Sniper." Grade: C+. R. 132 min. Navy SEAL sniper Chris Kyle's pinpoint
accuracy saves countless lives on the battlefield and turns him into a legend.
Back home to his wife and kids after four tours of duty, however, Chris finds
that it is the war he can't leave behind. Cinemark Southpark Meadows, Gateway,
Tinseltown Austin.

"An Honest Liar." 90 min. The life and career of the renowned stage magician
turned scientific skeptic of the paranormal, James Randi. Starring: James Randi,
Deyvi Pe±a, Banachek. Arbor.

"Chappie." Grade: F. R. 120 min. In the near future, crime is patrolled by a
mechanized police force. When one police droid, Chappie, is stolen and given new
programming, he becomes the first robot with the ability to think and feel for
himself. Round Rock 8, Tinseltown Austin.

"Cinderella." Grade: C+. PG. 105 min. When her father unexpectedly passes away,
young Ella finds herself at the mercy of her cruel stepmother and her daughters.
Never one to give up hope, Ella's fortunes begin to change after meeting a
dashing stranger. Alamo Lakeline, Alamo Village, Alamo South, Barton Creek
Square, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark
Southpark Meadows, Cinemark Stone Hill Town Center, City Lights, EVO, Highland,
Lakeline Mall, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown
Pflugerville, Westgate.

"Danny Collins." Grade: B-. R. 106 min. An aging rock star decides to change his
life when he discovers a 40-year-old letter written to him by John Lennon.
Arbor, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Galleria, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Violet
Crown.

"The Divergent Series: Insurgent." Grade: C+. PG-13. 119 min. Beatrice Prior
must confront her inner demons and continue her fight against a powerful
alliance which threatens to tear her society apart with the help from others on
her side. Alamo Lakeline, Alamo Slaughter, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark
Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, Cinemark Stone Hill
Center, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Flix Brewhouse, Gateway, Highland, Lakeline
Mall, Metropolitan, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Pflugerville,
Westgate. 3D: Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock,
Cinemark Southpark Meadows, Cinemark Stone Hill Center, Gateway, Lakeline Mall,
Metropolitan, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Westgate.

"Do You Believe?" PG-13. 115 min. When a pastor is shaken by the visible faith
of a street-corner preacher, he is reminded that true belief always requires
action. His response ignites a journey that impacts everyone it touches in ways
that only God could orchestrate. Cinemark Southpark Meadows.

"Focus." Grade: D. R. In the midst of veteran con man Nicky's latest scheme, a
woman from his past - now an accomplished femme fatale - shows up and throws his
plans for a loop. Round Rock 8, Tinseltown Austin.

"Freetown" PG-13. 113 min. A group of native Liberian missionaries makes a
desperate cross-country trip through their war-torn country to save one of their
own. Starring: Henry Adofo, Michael Attram, Alphonse Menyo. Barton Creek Square.

"Furious 7." Grade: B-. PG-13. 137 min. Deckard Shaw seeks revenge against
Dominic Toretto and his family for his comatose brother. Alamo Lakeline, Alamo
Ritz, Alamo Slaughter, Alamo Village, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar Park,
Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, Cinemark
Stone Hill Center, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Flix Brewhouse, Gateway, Highland,
Lakeline Mall, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown
Pflugerville, Westgate.

"Get Hard." Grade: D. R. 100 min. When millionaire James King is nailed for
fraud and bound for San Quentin, he turns to Darnell Lewis to prep him to go
behind bars. Alamo Slaughter, Alamo Village, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar
Park, Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows,
Cinemark Stone Hill Center, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Flix Brewhouse, Gateway,
Highland, Lakeline Mall, Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown Pflugerville,
Westgate.

"Girlhood." 113 min. Oppressed by her family setting, dead-end school prospects
and the boys' law in the neighborhood, Marieme starts a new life after meeting a
group of three free-spirited girls. Starring: Karidja Tour©, Assa Sylla, Lindsay
Karamoh. Alamo South.

"Home." Grade: C+. PG. 94 min. Oh, an alien on the run from his own people,
lands on Earth and makes friends with the adventurous Tip, who is on a quest of
her own. Alamo Lakeline, Alamo Slaughter, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar
Park, Cinemark Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows,
Cinemark Stone Hill Center, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Flix Brewhouse, Highland,
Lakeline Mall, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown
Pflugerville, Westgate. 3D: Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark
Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, Cinemark Stone Hill
Center, City Lights, Lakeline Mall, Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown
Pflugerville, Westgate.

"Hubble 3D." A film that chronicles the effort of seven astronauts aboard the
Space Shuttle Atlantis to repair the Hubble Space Telescope. Bullock Museum.

"Humpback Whales 3D." An in-depth look at the lives of humpback whales and the
challenges they face to avoid extinction. Bullock Museum.

"It Follows." Grade: B. R. 100 min. Following a sexual confrontation, a young
woman finds herself followed by an unknown force. Barton Creek Square, Highland,
Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Violet Crown, Westgate.

"Jerusalem 3D." 45 min. A documentary film that follows archaeological experts
as they uncover secrets of Jerusalem's past. Bullock Museum.

"Jupiter Ascending." Grade: D. PG-13. 127 min. In a bright and colorful future,
a young destitute caretaker gets targeted by the ruthless son of a powerful
family who lives on a planet in need of a new heir, so she travels with a
genetically engineered warrior to the planet in order to stop his tyrant reign.
Metropolitan, Round Rock 8. 3D: Metropolitan, Round Rock 8.

"Kingsman: The Secret Service." Grade: C+. R. 129 min. A spy organization
recruits an unrefined but promising street kid into the agency's
ultracompetitive training program just as a global threat emerges from a twisted
tech genius. Alamo Lakeline, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown Pflugerville.

"Living in the Age of Airplanes." 47 min. A story about how the airplane has
changed the world. Bullock Museum.

"The Longest Ride." Grade: D. PG-13. 139 min. After an automobile crash, the
lives of a young couple intertwine with a much older man as he reflects back on
a past love. Alamo Slaughter, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark
Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, Cinemark Stone Hill
Center, City Lights, Domain, EVO, Flix Brewhouse, Gateway, Highland, Lakeline
Mall, Moviehouse & Eatery, Starplex, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Westgate.

"Lost River." Grade: C+. R. 95 min. A single mother is swept into a dark
underworld while her teenage son discovers a road that leads him to a secret
underwater town. Alamo South.

"McFarland, USA." Grade: C+. PG. 129 min. A cross-country coach in a small
California town transforms a team of athletes into championship contenders.
Cinemark Stone Hill Tower Center, Metropolitan.

"Merchants of Doubt." Grade: B. PG-13. 96 min. A documentary that looks at
pundits-for-hire who present themselves as scientific authorities as they speak
about topics like toxic chemicals, pharmaceuticals and climate change. Arbor.

"Paddington." Grade: A-. PG. 95 min. A young Peruvian bear travels to London in
search of a home. Finding himself lost and alone at Paddington Station, he meets
the kindly Brown family, who offer him a temporary haven. Round Rock 8,
Tinseltown Austin.

"Run All Night." Grade: C+. R. 114 min. Mobster and hit man Jimmy Conlon has one
night to figure out where his loyalties lie: with his estranged son, Mike, whose
life is in danger, or his longtime best friend, mob boss Shawn Maguire, who
wants Mike to pay for the death of his own son. Round Rock 8, Metropolitan.

"The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel." Grade: B. As the Best Exotic Marigold
Hotel has only a single remaining vacancy - posing a rooming predicament for two
fresh arrivals - Sonny pursues his expansionist dream of opening a second hotel.
Arbor, Cinemark Galleria, Metropolitan.

"Seymour: An Introduction." Grade: B+. PG. 84 min. Meet Seymour Bernstein: a
beloved pianist, teacher and true inspiration who shares eye-opening insights
from an amazing life. Ethan Hawke helms this poignant guide to life. Arbor.

"The Spongebob Movie: Sponge Out of Water." Grade: C+. PG. 93 min. When a
diabolical pirate steals the secret Krabby Patty formula, SpongeBob and his
friends must travel to the surface to get it back. Round Rock 8, Lakeline Mall.

"Still Alice." Grade: B+. PG-13. 101 min. Alice Howland, happily married with
three grown children, is a renowned linguistics professor who starts to forget
words. When she receives a devastating diagnosis, Alice and her family find
their bonds tested. Arbor.

"Unfinished Business." R. 91 min. A hardworking small-business owner and his two
associates travel to Europe to close the most important deal of their lives.
Metropolitan.

"Wild Tales." Grade: B+. R. 122 min. Six short stories involving distressed
people. Arbor.

"What We Do in the Shadows." Grade: B. Viago, Deacon and Vladislav are vampires
who are finding that modern life has them struggling with the mundane - like
paying rent, keeping up with the chore wheel, trying to get into nightclubs and
overcoming flatmate conflicts. Alamo South.

"While We're Young." Grade: B. R. 97 min. A middle-aged couple's career and
marriage are overturned when a disarming young couple enters their lives. Alamo
South, Arbor, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Galleria, Tinseltown Austin,
Tinseltown Pflugerville, Violet Crown.

"White God." Grade: B+. R. 121 min. Thirteen-year-old Lili fights to protect her
dog, Hagen. She is devastated when her father eventually sets Hagen free on the
streets. Still innocently believing love can conquer any difficulty, Lili sets
out to find her dog and save him. Alamo South.

"Woman in Gold." Grade: C. PG-13. 109 min. Maria Altmann, an octogenarian Jewish
refugee, takes on the government to recover artwork she believes rightfully
belongs to her family. Arbor, Barton Creek Square, Cinemark Cedar Park, Cinemark
Galleria, Cinemark Round Rock, Cinemark Southpark Meadows, City Lights, EVO,
Starplex, Tinseltown Austin, Tinseltown Pflugerville, Violet Crown.

SPECIAL SCREENINGS

"The Burglars." A group of professional burglars plan an emerald heist from the
home of a gem collector, but the corrupt Greek police inspector Abel Zacharia is
on their trail. 8 p.m. Friday and 4 p.m. Sunday. $10. AFS at the Marchesa Hall
and Theater, 6226 Middle Fiskville Road. austinfilm.org.

"Revenge of the Mekons." A documentary about the 1970s art-punk band. 8 p.m.
Saturday. $10. AFS at the Marchesa Hall and Theater, 6226 Middle Fiskville Road.
austinfilm.org.

"This Is Where We Live." A family experiencing a series of health challenges
hire a handyman, who is fighting his own demons from the past; the event will
also feature a Q-and-A session with writer, actor and director Marc Menchaca.
6:30 p.m. Monday. Free and open to the public. concordia.edu/cinemaandreligion.

"Above All Else." Alarmed by the possible environmental hazards of a proposed
oil pipeline, East Texas activist David Daniel develops a bold strategy to stop
the project. 7:30 p.m. Monday. $10. AFS at the Marchesa Hall and Theater, 6226
Middle Fiskville Road. austinfilm.org.

"To Kill A Mockingbird." Atticus Finch, a lawyer in the Depression-era South,
defends a black man against an undeserved rape charge. 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. $8.
AFS at the Marchesa Hall and Theater, 6226 Middle Fiskville Road.
austinfilm.org.

AUSTIN

Alamo Ritz: 320 E. Sixth St., 512-476-1320

Alamo Lake Creek: 13729 Research Blvd., 512-219-5408

Alamo Lakeline: 14028 U.S. 183, 512-861-7070

Alamo Slaughter: 5701 W. Slaughter Lane, 512-476-1320

Alamo South Lamar: 1120 S Lamar Blvd., 512-861-7040

Alamo Village: 2700 W. Anderson Lane , 512-861-7000

Arbor: 9828 Great Hills Trail, 512-231-9742

Barton Creek Square: 2901 Capital of Texas Hwy., 888-262-4386

Bullock Museum (IMAX): 1800 N. Congress Ave., 512-936-8746

Cinemark Galleria 14: 12800 Texas 71 W., 512-263-0862, 1-800-FANDANGO, code:
2142

Cinemark Southpark: 9900 Interstate 35 S., 512-291-0171, 1-800-FANDANGO, code:
2140

The Domain Austin: 3225 Amy Donovan Plaza, 512-568-3400

Gateway: 9700 Stonelake Blvd., 512-343-5480, 1-800-FANDANGO, code: 366

Highland 10: 6700 Middle Fiskville Rd., 512-467-7305

Lake Creek 7: 13729 Research Blvd., 512-291-3158, southwesttheaters.com

Lakeline Mall: 11200 Lakeline Mall Blvd.,

512-335-4793, 1-800-

FANDANGO, code: 367

Metropolitan 14: 901 Little Texas Ln., 512-447-0101

Moviehouse & Eatery: 8300 N. RM 620, 512-501-3520

Paramount Theatre: 713 Congress Ave., 512-472-5470

Tinseltown Austin: 5501 S. IH-35, 512-326-4408, 1-800-FANDANGO, code: 1136

Violet Crown Cinema: 434 W. 2nd St., 512-495-9600

Westgate 11: 4477 S. Lamar Blvd., 512-899-2717

CEDAR PARK

Cinemark Cedar Park: 1335 E. Whitestone Blvd., 512-259-6741, 1-800-

FANDANGO, code: 2143

GEORGETOWN

City Lights: 420 Wolf Ranch Pkwy., Georgetown, 512-868-9922

KYLE

EVO: 3200 Kyle Crossing. 512-523-9009.

PFLUGERVILLE

Cinemark Stone Hill Town Center: 18820 Hill Top Commercial Drive, 512-251-0938,
1-800-FANDANGO, code: 2163

Tinseltown Pflugerville: 15436 FM 1825, 512-989-8535, 1-800-FANDANGO, code: 1159

ROUND ROCK

Cinemark Round Rock 14: 4401 I-35 N., 512-868-2062, 1-800-FANDANGO, code: 2134

Flix Brewhouse: 2200 S. IH 35 Round Rock, 512-244-3549

Round Rock 8: 2132 N. Mays St., 512-388-2703,

1-800-FANDANGO, code: 1199

SAN MARCOS

Showplace 3: 321 N. LBJ Drive, San Marcos, 512-353-3555

Starplex 12: 1250 Wonder World Drive, San Marcos, 512-805-8000

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            September 7, 2015 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Round Rock man's plan: swim the mighty Pacific

BYLINE: Claire Osborn American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 736 words


GEORGETOWN - Ben ­Lecomte emerged from the South San Gabriel River in Georgetown
one hot August morning wearing a swimsuit, goggles, a snorkel and flippers. At 5
feet 10 and 155 pounds, the slender 48-year-old looked like he was just out for
a lark in the tranquil water.

But he was training to do something no one else has done.

Lecomte, a Round Rock resident, wants to be the first person to swim 5,500 miles
across the Pacific Ocean from Tokyo to San Francisco. In 1998, he swam 3,500
miles across the Atlantic to raise money for cancer research in memory of his
father, who died of cancer at age 49.

Now, with the backing of a nonprofit group founded by actor Mark Ruffalo and
other scientific organizations, he's again willing to brave the sharks, giant
waves, cold water and mind-numbing tedium.

"Somebody told me one time that people who don't understand what you are going
to do are going to call you crazy, and the people who do understand are going to
call you passionate," he said, smiling, during an interview along the San
Gabriel River.

Lecomte, a native of France who is married with two children, has lived in Texas
for more than 25 years. He moved with his family to Round Rock about two months
ago so his wife could be near her Central Texas relatives during his swim, which
he estimates will take five months.

Lecomte will not be alone on the journey, which will begin late this month. He
will be followed by a donated boat with a crew of six: a captain, an engineer, a
deckhand and three people doing scientific research. His plan is to swim eight
hours per day wearing a wetsuit, snorkel, goggles and fins, and then get on the
boat to rest and chronicle his journey on the Internet.

Lecomte said he has to eat 8,000 calories a day to complete the feat. That
includes liquids such as soup while he is swimming, canned meats and vegetables
and vacuum- packed meals.

He's tackling the Pacific this year to draw attention to the ocean's declining
health.

"We have overfished the ocean, and only 10 percent of the big fish are left,"
said Lecomte, who has taken two years off his architectural career to train and
do the swim.

He said he hopes his swim makes people think about conservation.

"I know I'm not going to change the world, but I think making a little
contribution takes one step at a time, and I'm moving in the right direction,"
he said. "I want to be the person who pushed the limits and tried to do
something different to attract attention, even if I fail."

He has timed his swim to coincide with the U.N. Conference on Climate Change in
November in Paris, he said.

Organizations including the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and Water
Defense, the latter founded by Ruffalo, will conduct experiments on the boat on
plastic trash and bacteria found in the Pacific. Lecomte also will use an
echocardiograph on the boat that will take ultrasound pictures of his heart.

The results of the echocardiogram will be sent to Dr. Ben Levine, director of
the Institute for Exercise and Environmental Health and a professor of Internal
Medicine at UT Southwestern in Dallas. Levine said the results will show if
Lecomte shows signs of fatigue in his heart from the swimming.

The Kuroshio Current - which is warm with temperatures in the 70s - will help
carry him across the Pacific until he gets close to the United States, where he
will run into the cold North Pacific current with temperatures in the 50s,
Lecomte said.

To keep warm when the water gets colder, he will wear several layers of
wetsuits. Shark encounters will be inevitable, but Lecomte said a device
attached to a line the boat will drag behind it will emit an electromagnetic
field to keep them away.

His biggest challenge while swimming, he said, will be mental.

During each hour he swims, Lecomte said, he plans to focus on something
different, including how to design a sustainable building, remembering his 18th
birthday or time he spent with his father, who taught him how to swim in the
Atlantic Ocean when he was 5.

In the meantime he's training six days a week, three to five hours per day, by
swimming, biking and running. He swims in the Blue Hole area of the San Gabriel
River instead of a swimming pool, he said.

"The San Gabriel River has more natural light and changes every day," he said.
"It's not controlled, and you feel closer to the environment and closer to
yourself."

Contact Claire Osborn at 512-246-0040.

Twitter: @cosbo4

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Texas wineries shine with rosé

BYLINE: Arianna Auber American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 764 words


Rosé wines were once perceived as sweet, low-budget "pink" wines that no
self-respecting wine aficionado would dare touch. That's changed in a big way.

Just ask master sommelier and Whole Foods' global beverage buyer Devon Broglie.
He spent an entire seminar during the Austin Food and Wine Festival this year
raving about them - and he didn't leave Texas wines off his recommendation list.
Here and around the world, winemakers are producing award-winning rosés that are
easy on the wallet and are well-suited to sipping in this steaming Texas
weather.

"Rosé is fresher and lighter than a full-bodied red wine, but it has the
structure and complexity of a cool red that you can drink in the summer. It's
the white wine equivalent for red wine drinkers during the hot summer months,"
Broglie says.

And, boy, does Texas have some hot months ahead. The heat provides "the perfect
climate to drink copious amounts of rosé," he says; it's also exactly what
grapes grown in the Hill Country and the High Plains regions of the state for
rosé need to thrive.

Making these wines here has been a recent pursuit. Finding bottles of Texas
rosés only 10 years ago wouldn't have been possible, Broglie says, because Texas
winemakers were only just starting to persuade drinkers to go for a glass of
Texas-grown Tempranillo and other grape varietals that aren't common in
California. Forget rosé - Texas winemakers hadn't made the Hill Country the
highly lauded, well-traveled wine region it is today.

"(Texas winemakers) now recognize warm-weather varieties from Provence and the
Rhone Valley, versus those from Bordeaux and Burgundy, are more in line with the
Texas climate," Broglie says. "Growers are planting those grapes, and lo and
behold, they're more suited for making delicious Texas rosé wines."

Although many of the Texas rosés on the market today are dry and originate from
the French red grape varieties Cinsault and Mourvedre - two grapes that shine in
Texas summers - rosé can be made dry or sweet or sparkling and can come from red
or white grapes. They also range in color from a pale orange to a strawberry
red.

Here are some Texas rosé wines, all from the 2014 harvest, that Broglie (and I)
recommend for any backyard barbecues or poolside hangouts you have planned this
summer. Rosés are the wines you want to take to a picnic or when you're firing
up the grill, he says, and they're also fresh and crisp enough to stand up to
the spiciness of Tex-Mex or Mexican food.

Lewis Wines 2014 Rosé: "Refreshing and fun with an edgier spicy note," this
blend of Cinsault and Mourvedre draws out notes of fresh watermelon and slightly
underripe strawberry. Pull out a bottle ($30) when you're watching the sunset on
your back porch - Broglie says it's best as a transition into the nighttime
hours.

Brennan Vineyards 2014 Mourvedre Dry Rosé: This playful fruit-forward wine ($20)
must be good: The San Francisco International Wine Competition just awarded it a
double gold medal.

William Chris Vineyards Cinsault Rosé 2014: In this wine, a floral nose gives
way to a bright burst of clementine and tropical fruits and a finish of dried
apricot. Find it at the winery or at William Chris' online store for $30.

McPherson Les Copains Dry Rosé Table Wine 2014: Another gold medalist at the
recent San Francisco International Wine Competition, this vibrantly pink wine,
"full of jazzy citrus and tart fruit," is one of the most accessible of the
bunch in terms of both taste and cost, retailing between $11 and $15. This rosé
is primarily Cinsault, but Mourvedre and a white grape, Viognier, also
contribute to the wine's complexity.

Duchman Family Winery 2014 Dry Rosé: Italian grapes aren't as known for making
stellar rosés as French varietals - but they sure do in this Montepulciano rosé,
which bursts with light berry and watermelon notes and draws you in with a
rounder mouthfeel. The wine is only available at the winery ($18).

Wedding Oak Rosé 2014: I'll also recommend this watermelon-hued wine made from
Dolcetto grapes. Aromas of red berry and zesty citrus lure you into a rosé with
a clove-like spiciness on the palate. Buy it at the winery or online for $24.

Pedernales Cellars Texas Dry Rosé 2014: This one, with a subtle mix of orchard
fruit and honey notes, was another delight for me. This rosé ($30) straddles the
best of Spain and France by blending Tempranillo and Mourvedre grapes to lively
effect.

Once you find just the right bottle for you, Broglie has only one rule about
rosé: Keep it chilled and drink it outside. "And have at it," he says.

Contact Arianna Auber at 512-445-3630.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Pollution permit fight expected to resume

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 751 words


Business interests are likely to push again this session to overhaul the way
citizens can contest controversial pollution permits.

Looked at one way, the effort is about streamlining the process to attract
business to Texas and further improve the economy; looked at another way, it's
about bulldozing roadblocks to power plants, refineries and other major
industrial sites.

A similar effort failed last session, but the makeup of the Legislature has
shifted to the right, giving a more modest overhaul some chance of success.

"We do anticipate some legislation will be filed," said Stephen Minick, vice
president of governmental affairs for the powerful Texas Association of
Business.

Minick said businesses are looking for predictability, expediency and fairness
for what he says is a cumbersome, seemingly never-ending permitting process that
he said favors citizens who want to stall or stop a project. In remarks to
officials from Texas chambers of commerce in December, he gave the example of a
Williamson County landfill expansion proposal that took six years to get the
green light.

But environmental groups have argued that the current process, which involves
the hearing of controversial permit proposals by administrative law judges, who
then make recommendations to state agencies, is one of the few ways they can
oppose a project that could damage the environment or endanger public health.

"The process is crucial to environmental protection and citizen participation,"
said David Weinberg, director of the Texas League of Conservation Voters.

The fate of contested permits was a hot one in the last legislative session. At
one point, environmental groups tied a proposal to ease permitting for
industrial facilities, filed by state Sen. Troy Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay, to the
explosion at the West fertilizer plant, which led to the deaths of 15 people and
the destruction or damage of dozens of buildings.

"I believe because of the failure of state government, people are dead now," Jim
Marston, director of the Texas office of Environmental Defense Fund, said at an
Earth Day forum during the last session.

Fraser's proposal would have ordered that appeals in contested cases would
bypass Travis County district courts, which have been known to be sympathetic to
environmental concerns, and be heard by the 3rd Court of Appeals, whose judges
are elected from a broader swath of Central Texas.

"Creating a more efficient environmental permitting process will help Texas
attract and retain more business so that we can continue to grow our economy,"
Fraser said when he filed the 2013 proposal.

But in the wake of the West disaster, and with lawmakers uncomfortable with such
wholesale changes, the measure never got to the Senate floor.

Minick said he thinks "the process in Texas can be tightened up, but no one is
going to be denied going to court."

The "change in political climate," Minick suggested, with a more conservative
lieutenant governor and a deeper red Senate, could offer an opening for a
limited proposal to gain traction.

"The contested case process makes us less competitive," said Patrick Tarlton,
director of government affairs for the Texas Chemical Council, but he said he
didn't expect the same effort to overhaul it this time around.

Already, a December report by the staff of the Sunset Review Committee,
examining the operations of the State Office of Administrative Hearings, whose
judges oversee contested cases, has thrown cold water on such an effort.

The staff "found little basis for commonly heard complaints such as SOAH taking
too long to hold hearings and make decisions, or that its administrative law
judges lack expertise needed to handle certain cases."

In another report released last month, the state House Committee on
Environmental Regulation recommended the Legislature examine ways to make the
contested case process "less time consuming."

But using language that suggests the prospect for muted action this session, the
committee urged "a balance that protects the rights of private property owners
and meets environmental regulations while not unnecessarily hindering economic
development by an overburdensome and unpredictable permitting process."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Why it matters
  Contesting cases before administrative law judges is the main way neighbors
and other groups can dispute controversial proposals to build industrial
facilities. Lawmakers might decide whether to slim down that process this
legislative session.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Indiana backlash not affecting Texas proposals

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 846 words


The national backlash against Indiana's recently enacted religious objections
law hasn't dimmed support from Texas legislators who have introduced similar
measures to protect religious practice from government interference.

Opponents say two proposed amendments to the Texas Constitution would condone
discrimination - particularly against gays and lesbians - under the guise of
religious liberty and paint Texas as intolerant, which could hurt the business
climate if companies halted expansion plans or avoided the state, as has
happened in Indiana.

Supporters say the constitution must be amended to protect the right of every
Texan to freely exercise his or her religion without improper government
interference, such as limiting prayers during high school activities or
prohibiting owners of a family business from acting on their opposition to
same-sex marriage.

"All I'm doing is taking protection (already in Texas law) and giving it
constitutional protection - just beefing it up a little bit," said state Rep.
Matt Krause, R-Fort Worth, author of one of the proposed amendments. "There's
not going to be a license to discriminate."

Opponents disagree, saying Krause's legislation - and a similar amendment
proposed by Sen. Donna Campbell, R-New Braunfels - would replace a
well-established, 16-year-old state religious freedom law with a vaguely worded
amendment guaranteed to produce an Indiana-style backlash in Texas.

"These amendments would allow people to use religion as a weapon to harm those
with whom they disagree," said Kathy Miller of the Texas Freedom Network.
"You're going to have a slew of lawsuits, dozens of definitions for what
constitutes a burden on religious practice and people harmed in the name of
religion."

Indiana's legislators and governor say they plan to amend that state's law,
known as the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, to clarify that it doesn't allow
for discrimination against gays and lesbians.

Texas enacted its Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 1999, when it became one
of the first states to respond to a 1997 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that blocked
a similar federal law from protecting religious practices in the states.

The Texas law, which hasn't been controversial, has several key differences from
Indiana's act - and from the proposed amendments to the Texas Constitution:

* The 1999 Texas law says government agencies cannot "substantially burden" a
person's free exercise of religion, while the proposed amendments offer a far
lower standard of what constitutes a burden.

Krause's amendment, House Joint Resolution 125, says governments cannot burden
"in any way" the free exercise of religion.

Campbell's proposal, Senate Joint Resolution 10, would bar government actions
that burden the religious practice of people and organizations or their "right
to act or refuse to act in a manner motivated by a sincerely held religious
belief."

Both amendments would allow restrictions on religion only if that burden is the
least restrictive way to further a compelling government interest - an
exceedingly difficult legal standard to meet.

* The 1999 law specifies that it doesn't supersede federal or state civil rights
protections, language that is lacking in the Indiana act. Neither proposed Texas
amendment contains similar anti-discrimination language.

* The 1999 Texas law states that it didn't change how the religious freedom
section of the Texas Constitution's Bill of Rights should be interpreted, while
the proposed amendments would add language to the Bill of Rights barring the
government from burdening religious practice.

The 1999 law's language was designed to protect court decisions on church
zoning, religious services in prisons and many similar matters from having to be
re-litigated, said Scott Hochberg, a former Democratic House member who worked
with former Sen. David Sibley, a Republican, on the Texas law.

Hochberg predicted an explosion of lawsuits if one of the proposed amendments
succeeds.

"These (amendments) very intentionally take a simple, straightforward paragraph
in the constitution and add a lot stuff that really opens the door for a huge
range of interpretations that we can't even begin to imagine," he said.

Krause said he believed support will grow for his legislation as more people
understand that it is intended to help people of every political, ideological
and religious stripe.

"Should a Jewish bakery have to bake a cake for the neo-Nazi convention coming
into town? Nobody would say that. Nor would anybody say a gay florist couple has
to give flowers to a Westboro Baptist protest at funerals," Krause said,
referring to a Kansas church known for its anti-gay rhetoric and protesting at
soldiers' funerals. "All it's saying is that if you feel like it has been
burdened, that gives you a chance to go to court to say the government is
infringing on my religious freedom because they are forcing me to do this."

A committee hearing, an early step in the legislative process, hasn't yet been
set for either proposed amendment.

Contact Chuck Lindell

at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

OBIT: TAYLOR, Donald Ray

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: METR; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 865 words


TAYLOR, Donald Ray

Donald Ray Taylor, 74, died peacefully on Thursday, November 12, 2015, due to
complications from hepatitis C and cirrhosis.

A memorial service and reception will be held at 2:00 PM on Friday, December
4th, at the First Unitarian Universalist Church of Austin: 4700 Grover Avenue,
Austin, Texas, 78756.

Don was born on Tuesday, November 4, 1941, in Dallas, Texas.

A precocious child, he was the teacher's pet, as he knew all the answers and
loved to recite poetry. His flawless memory allowed him to snag the leading
roles in all of the school plays, in which he knew everyone else's lines in
addition to his own.

Don played center on the W.H. Adamson High School basketball team, from which he
graduated in 1960. In 1965 he received a Bachelor of Science degree in
Electrical Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin, graduating Tau
Beta Pi. He went to work at the Defense Research Laboratory at the University of
Texas' Balcones Research Center, however his moral objections to that effort
eventually led him to resign and join the anti-Vietnam War and Rock and Roll
counterculture movement of the late 60's.

For the next 10 years Don worked as an electrical and sound technician. He wired
the light and sound, fixed the air conditioning, and rewired the power for
Austin's first psychedelic venue, The Vulcan Gas Company. An audio expert, he
recorded some of the earliest Austin bands, including Johnny Winter, the
Conqueroo, Shiva's Headband and some of America's blues masters. In San
Francisco he worked with bands at the Avalon Ballroom, wired the 36-inch presses
at San Francisco's Rip Off Press and repaired electronic equipment for the bands
and those who recorded them.

In the late 70's, Don was diagnosed with diabetes, ultimately changing his life
for the better. It was this life change that led Don to return to school. In the
early 80's he enrolled in graduate school at the University of Texas at
Arlington. An old undergraduate classmate and friend hired Don to run the
Hardware Lab of the Computer Science Engineering Department. In 1990, at the age
of 49, he graduated from UTA with a Masters in Computer Science Engineering.

With a new lease on life and having reconnected with Christi (who he dated
briefly in college in his early 20s), Don returned to his beloved Austin, ready
to get to work in his field of choice.

He went to work at ASOMA Instruments, developing recycling instrumentation and
employing X-Ray Fluorescence and Iconic Transfer Membranes to measure chemical
composition. It was during that time that Don's daughter Rachel came to live
with him while she attended graduate school for physical therapy.

Over his 20-year career Don went on to work for Weed Instruments and
Spectro/Ametek. In one project he perfected an instrument that recognized the
unusable PVC plastic on a recycling plant conveyor belt, and separated it using
a blast of air. Another analyzer measured ultra-low sulfur in fuels to assist
with the elimination of acid rain.

Don was a lifetime member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE), of which he was very proud. His latter years were perhaps his
most gratifying. He felt good about the work he did and the relationships he
formed during that time.

Don was an avid reader, a tinkerer, a student of history, a scientist, a
brilliant and passionate man with an endlessly curious mind. He held strong
beliefs in education and science. He was a card-carrying Democrat who regularly
donated his hard-earned monies to climate change organizations and other
important causes of our time.

Don was most happy in social settings. He loved people and came alive at parties
with friends - listening to good music, discussing current events, and
philosophizing about the ways of the world. To quote his friend John, "Don
helped lay the bedrock for making Austin 'weird'. The rest of us only have to
help keep it that way."

Don was a loving companion, and a very generous and loyal friend. He will be
greatly missed by many who love him.

He is survived by his life partner of 30 years, Christi Pate of Austin, daughter
Rachel Ray and grandson Josh Ray of Richardson, and Christi's daughters and
their families: Ashli Pate, husband Ed Piston and daughter Ella of Austin, and
Nicol Pate and daughter Ame of Boulder, Colorado.

He was preceded in death by his parents, James L. Taylor and Eunice Williams
Taylor, and his sister, Beverly Flannery.

In lieu of flowers, please make a donation in Don's name to the World Wildlife
Fund, Environmental Defense Fund, Hepatitis Foundation International, American
Civil Liberties Union, or to the charity of your choice.

Don's family would like to thank the nurses, doctors and staff at Seton Main
Hospital's Intermediate Care Unit, especially Palliative Care Nurse Practitioner
Stephanie Davis, Nurse Molly, Nurse Stephanie, Clinical Assistant Lauren,
doctors Leong and W. Rodriguez, and Hospice Austin nurse Laurie, for their
straightforward and compassionate care.

Arrangements are under the care of Distinctive Life Cremations & Funerals of
Austin. You may visit http://distinctivelife.com/obituaries/donald-taylor/ to
view the obituary and leave messages for the family.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Luring admirers, peregrine falcon holds territory upon Frost Tower

BYLINE: Julie Chang American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 422 words


Vincent O'Brien was eating lunch on the 16th floor of the downtown office
building where he works when he spotted an unfamiliar visitor: A peregrine
falcon had just landed on the Frost Tower three blocks north.

"It was like seeing a wolf or bear on top of a skyscraper," said O'Brien, who
has been bird-watching for a decade. "It was dramatic and inspiring - a glimpse
of an animal that is the ultimate symbol of wilderness."

O'Brien said that a female peregrine falcon and sometimes a male one - both
marked by black and white barring, pointed yellow-brown tail feathers and slate
blue beak - have been spotted regularly since September perched on one of the
white prongs of the Frost Bank logo. He last saw the bird Friday.

Peregrine falcons aren't common in Central Texas, according to local bird
experts.

But with climate changes, the birds, which normally migrate to the Texas coast
in the winter, have been slowly moving inland.

Populations of peregrines have rebounded over the last few decades after their
numbers were decimated by the use of the pesticide DDT.

"I wouldn't be surprised if there's not some in Austin every winter now. At the
same time, if we were together and you said, â  Let's go find a peregrine
falcon,' we would have no expectations that we could," said Mark Lockwood,
interim director of state parks region 1 for the Texas Parks and Wildlife
Department.

Natural oases like Lady Bird Lake and the Capitol grounds are huge attractions
for birds. Neighboring skyscrapers act like cliffs to the peregrines, giving
them great vantage points to spot such prey as the ubiquitous rock pigeons.

Few are a match for the speedy peregrine, which can reach up to 200 mph when it
attacks.

"I was able to catch them do a cooperative hunt on the streets of downtown,"
O'Brien said. "One of the falcons flew around a building really low and flushed
some rock pigeons into the air. The second falcon was at the left side of the
building high up and intercepted the pigeon, which I thought was fascinating."

Two peregrine falcons were also sighted at the University of Texas clock tower
over the summer, but it's unclear whether that's the same pair seen at the Frost
Tower.

The male didn't stick around, and no nesting material has been found, so the two
likely never bred, said Nate McGowan, who compiles rare bird sightings for the
local Travis Audubon Society. It would be even more remarkable if a pair of
peregrines decided to reproduce in Austin, he said.

Not so good for the pigeons, though.

Contact Julie Chang at 512-912-2565.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 25, 2015 Sunday
                                 State Edition

SEVEN DAYS, SEVEN THINGS TO DO

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 799 words


â  Rock 'N' Roll High School' screening at the Long Center

8 p.m. Monday. $29-$59. 701 West Riverside Drive. thelongcenter.org.

School is in session and Marky Ramone is head of the class - at "Rock 'N' Roll
High School," that is. The Alamo Drafthouse and the Long Center are partnering
for an irresitible pairing: a screening of the 1979 punk rock musical with
drummer Marky Ramone. He'll introduce the film and afterward will participate in
a discussion and Q&A about his life story. You can probably get a lot of that in
his new memoir, "Punk Rock Blitzkrieg: My Life as a Ramone," but it's so nice to
hear the juicy details straight from the horse's mouth, isn't it?

Compiled by Arianna Auber, aauber@statesman.com

Pappy Van Winkle Whiskey Flight at Easy Tiger

7 p.m. Tuesday. $50. 709 E. Sixth St. www.facebook.com/EasyTigerATX.

Just 32 flights of the 10-year, 12-year, 15-year and 20-year Pappy Van Winkle
bourbons will be available for this very special offering - and you will be able
to purchase tickets only two hours in advance, starting at 5 p.m. Plus, you can
purchase them only onsite at Easy Tiger, and you can only purchase one ticket
per person. But is it worth it? Absolutely. Plan accordingly.

Max Frost

at the Parish

8 p.m. doors Wednesday. $17. 217 E. Sixth St. parishaustin.com.

It's been more than a year since young upstart Frost inked the Atlantic deal
that had him pegged as Austin's next great export. A full-length release is yet
to emerge, but Frost tantalized us last year with the single "Paranoia," a
refreshing blast of synth-driven pop. Meanwhile, his breakout track "White Lies"
has been in regular rotation on local radio since it dropped in late 2013. He
received a hometown hero's welcome at the ACL Fest afterparty he played last
year and we expect the hype level at this gig to be just as high.

- Deborah Sengupta Stith

Hubbard Street Dance Chicago

8 p.m. Thursday. $36-$42. Bass Concert Hall, 2350 E. Campus Dr. 512-477-6060,
texasperformingarts.org.

Among the world's top contemporary dance companies, Hubbard Street Dance Chicago
is fluent in a variety of dance techniques and forms, demonstrating them with
abstract artistry and emotional nuance. Celebrating its 37th season, the company
is critically acclaimed for its exuberant and innovative repertoire featuring
works by American and international choreographer. The program at Bass Concert
Hall will be a mixture of works by JiÅ ­ Kyli(degrees)n, Nacha Duato and
Alejandro Cerrudo.

Christopher Titus

8 p.m. Friday. $32-$45. Paramount Theatre, 713 Congress Ave. 512-474-1221,
www.austintheatre.org.

Get the new year started right by spending a night with the dark and edgy comic
you remember from his self-named sitcom (no, it wasn't "Seinfeld"). His newest
standup show, "The Angry Pursuit of Happiness," comes to Austin with special
guest Rachel Bradley. Titus doesn't pull any punches, offering hilarious and
intelligent commentary on everything from the Boston bombing to his dad's
erectile dysfunction.

- Dale Roe

Second Annual Bacon and Beer Festival

2:30 p.m. Sunday. $45. Fair Market, 1100 E. Fifth St.
www.edibleaustin.com/inded.php/events/1601-baconandbeer.

This popular event showcases bacon-centric food prepared by bacon-loving chefs
from Austin and Central Texas that you can then wash down with paired craft
beers from local and regional breweries such as Austin Beerworks, Karbach and
Save the World Brewing. Expect the bites to come from 30 area restaurants
including Liberty Tavern, Frank, Noble Sandwich Co. and Jacoby's. A portion of
the proceeds will benefit the Capital Area Food Bank of Texas.

Glass Half Full Theatre's â  The Six Seasons'

11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday. $15-$20. Zach Theatre, 202 S. Lamar Blvd.
512-476-0541, www.zachtheatre.org.

This thought-provoking play shows the effects of climate change on distinct
environments around the globe. Before your eyes, puppeteers transform miniature
landscapes to demonstrate the effects of drought, flood and melting ice caps on
the earth's human and animal inhabitants. The tiny characters are driven to find
solutions to these challenges, and as population centers shift, they must
rebuild, rethink and re-imagine cultural mind-sets about how we live.

The Vortex's â  The Changelings'

8 p.m. Thursdays-Sundays through Feb. 7. $10-$30. 2307 Manor Road.
www.vortexrep.org.

"The Changelings" will conjure up a magical realm where anything is possible.
The premiere of a new play by Reina Hardy, the production blends fantasy and
adventure to create a vibrant pop mythology that is both entertaining and
unnerving. Integrating puppetry, acrobatics and original music, Rudy Ramirez
directs a stellar cast in the creation of the fairyland beneath Austin. On
Thursdays and Sunday, you can get two-for-one admission with a donation of two
cans for SafePlace.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

'Professor Dumpster' ends yearlong project

BYLINE: Patrick Beach American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 699 words


Preparing for a move is an occasion bound to promote reflection, nostalgia and
maybe a little melancholy.

So it has been of late for Jeff "Professor Dumpster" Wilson, a dean and
associate professor of biological sciences at Huston-Tillotson University. He
and his helpers have done a lot of work on his home for the last year, and now
it must be said: He's going to miss that trash container. Wilson confessed that
he teared up Tuesday night, his last in the dumpster.

"The last few nights have been really sweet," he said at the end of last week in
the dumpster, which has a window air-conditioning unit, storage under a false
floor, a sliding roof with a weather station that takes measurements every five
minutes, and not much else.

"Identitywise, am I still Professor Dumpster if I'm not living in a dumpster? I
don't know if this is what my mom wanted for her first-born son," Wilson said.

The Dumpster Project, led by Wilson, has focused on not only sustainability and
education outreach, but also the challenges and opportunities born out of living
in a used - albeit thoroughly scrubbed and fumigated - 36-square-foot trash bin
that's been on campus and around town. After an initial phase of what was little
more than camping in a dumpster, the place now has a few comforts, including a
small electric heater and art on the walls. He painted the interior a sort of
eggshell color to give the illusion of more space.

"The hypothesis we started with was that one can have a pretty good life in and
on a lot less," Wilson said. "Stuff is noise."

Wilson evicted himself at a reception on campus Wednesday afternoon, and the
plan now is for the dumpster to become more of a hub for education. The Dumpster
Project "Home" School will have curriculum on sustainability. Educators will be
staying in the dumpster, according to Amanda Masino, who also teaches biology at
Huston-Tillotson, and students will be given a "semi-ridiculous challenge: Turn
the dumpster into a house. What happens when you don't have constant
temperature? Where do you get water? How do you treat it?"

"It's better doing it like this than talking about it in a dry way," Masino
said.

Wilson figures he spent maybe 250 nights in the can. Other nights he was
traveling, with his daughter or staying with his girlfriend.

"Usually when it was my place or hers, the answer was pretty definite."

When he wasn't there, it was usually occupied by students or visitors drawn to
his goofy stunt with a serious purpose.

"It pushes your limits," he said. "It totally blew up the idea of what a home
is. In this climate, having central air and heat is more necessary than having a
kitchen. But it would have been nice to have a toilet. The main complaint from
students was a weak ­Wi-Fi signal - allegedly to do their homework."

"My dream," he said, "is to get Google Fiber in the dumpster."

Although he'll always be attached to the Dumpster Project, Wilson is turning to
a new endeavor: spending 99 nights in a variety of homes all over Austin,
whether it be at new City Council Member Greg Casar's place, a nursing home, a
shotgun house on the east side, a McMansion to the west, a spot in the clouds at
the Austonian and even - OK, it's an outside shot - the Governor's Mansion.

The new project, called 99 Nights ATX, will continue his exploration of the
contemporary notion of house and home in Austin, in conventional and
unconventional spaces - not to mention determine where he's going to live next.
It helps that he has just a handful of shirts and a few pairs of shoes.

"We want a comprehensive view of the stories people tell themselves about home.
Housing is probably the biggest issue in Austin."

The project's website is taking nominations for housing outside of Wilson's
circle of friends and associates. It'll be another adventure, but it'll be hard
to top the dumpster.

"I've lived in 23 places in my life," Wilson said. "This is the smallest. I know
my community and my environment better. I got to know my neighbors." One thing
that may or may not change is the signoff on his email: "At your disposal,
Jeff."

"I may or may not keep that, but I will be litter-

ally at people's disposal," he said.

Contact Patrick Beach

at 512-445-3603.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 16, 2015 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Texas solar industry finds itself on defensive in 2015

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 950 words


This was the year the solar industry was finally hoping to play offense in
Texas.

Texas has less solar power than New Jersey, a state not conventionally thought
of as a sunny getaway, and Texas lawmakers have generally shrugged off efforts
by the industry to get legislation that would encourage utility-scale projects.

But as the cost of solar has dropped, finally making it competitive with other
sources of energy, and investment has ratcheted up, the industry seems just as
unlikely to get incentives or fees to support it in Texas. On the contrary, some
lawmakers and policymakers are threatening to take steps that would actively
weaken the industry.

One legislator has suggested that Texas abandon any renewable-power plans
altogether. And the chair of the Public Utility Commission has recommended
stripping renewable energy projects of any subsidies they receive.

The solar industry, in other words, finds itself on the defensive.

Solar still lags far behind its elder-brother renewable, wind power, which was
more affordable in the late 1990s when the Legislature ordered utilities to get
a portion of their power from renewable sources as part of a grand compromise to
deregulate the state's electric industry. That act vaulted the wind industry
ahead of other renewable sources.

Ever since, solar has played catch-up. Texas currently has the most wind power
of any state, at more than 12,000 installed megawatts of capacity. But on the
solar end, it has 200 to 300 megawatts of installed capacity, or enough to power
no more than 32,000 homes, according to a solar energy trade association. That
amount is minuscule - less than 0.8 percent of the energy used on the chief
Texas grid in 2014 came from a combination of solar, biomass and hydropower.
Wind, by comparison, accounted for 10.6 percent of the power consumed.

Unlike New Jersey and Delaware, Texas doesn't have a mandate requiring utilities
to get a portion of their energy from solar sources.

That hasn't deterred investors: In 2013, they poured $174 million into home,
business and utility-scale solar in Texas, a 4 percent increase from the
previous year. The solar industry employed 6,965 people in Texas in 2014, a
nearly 70 percent increase over 2013, according to the National Solar
Foundation, which promotes the industry.

The price of installing residential and business solar systems has fallen by
about 10 percent in the last year, and, in another sign of the declining price,
green-minded utilities such as Austin Energy have been entering into solar
generation contracts.

"We have the largest potential for growth in the country," said Marita
Mirzatuny, clean energy project manager for the Environmental Defense Fund in
Texas. "The fact is that whenever you have a market opportunity in a state like
Texas, a business-friendly state, with high potential for growth, you're going
to see investment."

Referring to earlier, sunny forecasts for the industry that never panned out,
Mirzatuny wrote a blog last fall titled "Solar in Texas: It's Really Happening
This Time (Really)."

Then the Legislature came to town.

State Rep. Scott Sanford, R-McKinney, has proposed getting rid of any
renewable-energy mandate - solar, wind, whatever. The measure echoes efforts by
the American Legislative Exchange Council, a nonprofit that promotes
business-friendly laws and counts major coal, oil and gas companies among its
members, to encourage state legislatures to roll back their renewable
requirements.

And last year, the chair of the state Public Utility Commission, Donna Nelson,
wondered out loud whether the state should cease its support for renewable
energy.

Sanford didn't return requests for comment. But in a 2013 hearing on a similar
piece of legislation, he argued that renewable power increases electric rates
and reduces reliability of electricity on the grid since power isn't generated
if the wind doesn't blow - or the sun shine - with enough constancy.

"It ends up being a hidden tax on ratepayers," one that adds tens of millions of
dollars to bills, he argued.

Bill Peacock, vice president of research at the Texas Public Policy Foundation,
said any incentives for renewable energy make electricity more expensive for all
ratepayers.

"Solar is already eligible for (utilities to meet renewable requirements)," he
said. "If it can't compete with wind, that shows how inefficient their product
is."

The renewable energy industry has pointed out, in turn, the millions of dollars
in subsidies that more conventional sources of fuel receive.

"Clearly we are an oil and gas state," said Mirzatuny. "There's a lot of
resistance overall to competition from coming in."

Instead of the sunny blog post, she now says, "It's a slow jog to being
successful."

The solar industry is girding up to defend its modest turf. The Solar Energy
Industries Association now has a $100,000-a-year lobbyist; that's as much as
double what the association's lobbyist was paid two years ago.

"Solar is in a very different place today than it was just two or three years
ago," said Colin Meehan, director of regulatory and governmental affairs for
publicly traded First Solar. "We're not looking for relief, but frankly there's
some concern."

Charlie Hemmeline, executive director of the Texas Solar Power Association, said
his group is focused on framing solar power on terms lawmakers like.

"They're not by and large negative; they're more ambivalent or skeptical," he
said. "Instead of framing it as purely political or environmental - as climate
change-related or something they disagree with, we make sure it's thought of as
an industry and as a business, as a Texas natural resource we want to develop."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday
                                 State Edition

Peace, one heart at a time

BYLINE: Nicole Villalpando American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1975 words


A man in a hotel cafe in Iraq asked Jeremy Courtney a simple question: Could the
American help his cousin who had a hole in her heart?

Courtney, who moved with his wife, Jessica, and his toddler daughter, Emma, to
Iraq around New Year's Day 2007, was not a doctor, nor did he have any medical
knowledge. The family, which would later that year include son Micah, had come
to Iraq to work with an international humanitarian organization that was helping
orphans and widows.

Soon, Courtney, who graduated from Leander High School in 1997, was learning
about the lack of surgeons in Iraq who could do this procedure, the number of
kids born with this birth defect in Iraq and the system of patriarchy that
decides who receives surgeries.

One girl's need led Courtney to start the Preemptive Love Coalition, a nonprofit
organization that since 2007 has helped more than 1,000 Iraqi children get
life-saving heart surgeries and now trains Iraqi doctors to perform the
surgeries.

"He's just a normal guy," says Josiah Sternfeld, who met Courtney when they were
in eighth grade. They later played in the high school band together and have
remained friends. "He's just a guy who grew up in Leander, who wanted to do
something in the world and make a difference."

Developing leadership

Courtney, 35, moved to the Austin area in fourth grade. His family was active in
the Baptist church, in which his grandfather and father were ministers. The
church and those values shaped his belief in preemptive love - whenever there
are dark times or conflicts, love is always the answer.

The band shaped his leadership skills. Under director Dennis Hopkins, Courtney
was a squad leader for groups of students. He played saxophone.

"He was always a focused kid," Sternfeld says. "He was very focused on his
faith, doing well in school and being the best he can be."

Courtney took his role in the band seriously, and Hopkins knew he could count on
him, but Courtney also would inject humor when things got tense, Hopkins says.
"He had this special way."

"I knew he could do anything," Hopkins says. "He had a plan to reach those
goals.... A lot of people have potential. He's someone that is realizing his
potential."

Terrorism at home

Sept. 11, 2001, forever changed Courtney's life, but not in the way you might
think. He didn't lose someone in the tragedy. He didn't join the military.

Instead he began to question what the proper reaction to terrorism was and
whether war was the right answer. "There was so much national pride around the
idea that we would strike back and we would win," he says. A lot of people got
caught up in that, he says.

While Courtney was getting his master's in theology at Baylor, he and his wife,
Jessica, joined First Baptist Church Woodway. Some of its members were
like-minded in their questioning of the United States' involvement in Iraq and
Afghanistan, the growing bigotry and hatred toward Muslims and whether a desire
to kill America's enemies was defensible from a Christian perspective. "The
community was asking... whether it was truly Christian to behave that way," he
says.

Even as his master's education was ending, Courtney didn't know what he wanted
to do with his life. "There was a sense that I would follow in the family
business," of being a Baptist minister, he says. "But that wasn't really my
desire."

Soon Courtney and his wife wanted to "put feet" to this question of the
appropriate response to terrorism. He took exploratory trips to Iraq to see if
they could actually move there. Each time, he would tell her that the need was
so huge, but, "I don't think we can live there," he says. "She had this real
sense that this is what we need to do. She had a sense of a calling and a
conviction."

After they got to Iraq, they began to understand what living there would mean:
three hours of electricity a day, and water had to be pumped to the houses and
stored in containers.

Courtney says they realized that he was right and she was wrong about their
ability to live there. "It was extremely difficult," he says. "We didn't know if
we would survive as a family. Would we make it through?"

Growing up in Iraq

For his children, who are now 9 and 7, there is a bit of an odd juxtaposition.
They are growing up in a community where it's nothing to have kids go to the
store by themselves for bread or walk to a friends' house by themselves. Parents
don't hover or worry if their children are out of their sight.

The Courtneys understand some Arabic, but none of them are fluent, and they are
still outsiders. They have deep respect for their Muslim neighbors.

When they visit the U.S. to see family, the kids notice the anti-Muslim
rhetoric. "That can be very confusing to them," Courtney says. "They don't know
Muslims to be the bad guys. They know far more Muslims than Christians. Muslims
are normal people, the bus drivers, the tax drivers, the shopkeepers."

Loving first

Living in Iraq, they have had to embody preemptive love. Their mission "dares to
go into the hardest and darkest places and dares to stand up to ISIS, not with
bigger guns but with a bigger vision."

It is what guided Courtney as he began to navigate how to get this one child a
heart surgery, and it is what continues to guide him. Preemptive Love is the
reason the organization is much bigger than him, even though he is the face
behind it and the author of the 2013 book about the coalition, "Preemptive Love:
Pursuing Peace One Heart at a Time."

Every day he is reminded how incredibly naive he was when he started Preemptive
Love Coalition and how much of a gift that naivete was. "You do it not being
aware of the difficulty of what it's going to take," he says. "If we knew what
it took, the social issues, we would never choose to engage." He didn't
understand the foreign policy or the political issues or the class issues and
patriarchy, some of which are new, some which stretch back centuries.

"Providing surgeries for kids, that was the problem I thought we were solving,"
he says.

What he soon realized is Preemptive Love had to do so much more.

Making surgeries happen

Courtney soon learned that it wasn't just one girl who needed a heart surgery.
Some children whose parents survived the 1988 chemical warfare attack by Saddam
Hussein on the Kurds were born with these defects. Other children who lived in
areas that sustained heavy bombardments of weapons that used depleted uranium
during the wars also have the defects. United Nations sanctions that happened
between Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the fall of Saddam Hussein meant that many
pregnant women didn't get proper nutrition, leading to the defects.

He soon learned that there is evidence that Iraqi children in some cities have
10 times more heart defects than the world average. There also weren't enough
doctors and facilities trained to do the surgeries. Thousands of children were
dying before they could get the surgery.

The initial plan to fund the surgeries was to sell Kurdish shoes made by local
craftsmen to Americans. Courtney used his and Jessica's life savings to buy
shoes from local merchants and then posted photos of the shoes online with the
banner "Buy Shoes. Save Lives." The orders came rolling in. The organization had
a revenue source.

Preemptive Love also required families of children getting heart surgeries to
help offset some of the cost, not to make it cost-prohibitive but to make sure
families had buy-in.

Courtney began networking to figure out where to send the children because of
the lack of trained Iraqi doctors and hospitals.

The first answer came in Israel. It was a huge leap. Families didn't want to
send their children to Israel, but this was the solution that Courtney could
find. Most families chose their children over prejudice, but they would often
tell people their children were being treated in Jordan.

After about a year, the situation with the Israeli hospital changed, and
Preemptive Love had to find a new hospital. It found a connection to Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Turkey. Historical unrest between Turkey and the Kurds meant
this also was not an easy answer for many of the Kurdish families in the
program, but was a much better solution for Arab families.

Bringing surgeries back to Iraq

While having the surgeries in Israel and Turkey did have the positive effect of
changing the way families felt about the people of those countries, Courtney
realized in 2012 that he had made a mistake. By not training more Iraqi doctors
and hospitals, they were only putting a bandage on the problem. "It was a
divestment in Iraq's future. Money should be spent building up Iraq rather than
sending these kids to other places," he says.

So he started searching the Internet and found the International Children's
Heart Foundation out of Memphis, Tenn., that was willing to brave bombs and
bullets and come to Iraq. Together they started Remedy Missions to bring U.S.
doctors to Iraq to teach Iraqi doctors and hospitals how to do the surgeries and
care for the kids post-surgery.

Easier cases are done by Iraqi doctors to help boost doctors' confidence levels,
but the riskier surgeries are done in Iraq by an international team of doctors
from International Children's Heart Foundation, For Hearts & Souls and Novick
Cardiac Alliance.

By 2010, the shoe business was beginning to wane and Preemptive Love turned to a
new model. Donors give money, which then prepays the cost of the surgery as well
as covers the expense of bringing in Western medical experts to Iraq. The Iraqi
government eventually reimburses Preemptive Love the cost of the surgery, and
then Preemptive Love is able to fund another surgery. Preemptive Love also has
raised about $500,000 through the book.

The Courtneys lived off donations from friends and family until 2012, when
Preemptive Love became financially solvent enough to be able to pull money for
salaries.

Going into places where others won't

In the past year, Courtney has watched the climate of Iraq change as the Islamic
State group has gained more and more control over the country. Jessica Courtney
is always encouraging her husband to go to some of the most dangerous places.
They continue to be committed to working in Fallujah, a place where Courtney
says "American colonels are saying no Americans will ever be welcome again."

Government officials have helped them come into Fallujah at night when it was
too dangerous to go in the day. Jessica, he says, is "always saying, â  You have
to go. We didn't move to Iraq so we can play it safe.' We are constantly
checking in to evaluate our family values." She'll tell him, "Should we not go
to Fallujah because it's too dangerous? Let's choose the bigger vision." "She's
very much the partner pushing me out the door," he says.

He has learned some important lessons working in Iraq that he's now carrying
over to places like Libya, the Balkans, Ukraine and Russia. He would like to
expand beyond heart surgeries but hasn't found the right medical partners to do
the training.

One important lesson is not to put all his eggs in one basket. Allies sometimes
turn. It's a very nepotistic society in Iraq, and often you're not sure where
allegiances are. It's very easy to make enemies, he says.

"We have to continually provide more good than anyone can say bad about us," he
says. That's part of the bigger picture of Preemptive Love. "We talk about heart
surgeries and cardiac care," he says. "But the greater agenda is how to love in
a time when no one else wants to love."

"We're not just maintaining or holding ground," he says. "We're driving back the
darkness. We have the capacity to overrun evil."

Contact Nicole Villalpando at 512-912-5900.

About this series
  In Giving Ways, Nicole Villalpando introduces you to Central Texans who have
started philanthropies that help us connect to our community and beyond.


Preemptive Love Coalition
  To find out more, www.preemptivelove.org.


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 29, 2015 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Visitors: U.S. knows little on 43 missing Mexicans

BYLINE: James Barragan American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1119 words


San Antonio - As he looked out into a packed auditorium at Trinity University,
Omar Garcia's voice boomed into the crowd.

"What I'm about to tell you has never happened - and probably will never happen
- in the United States," he said.

Garcia told the audience how in September municipal police in the southern
Mexican city of Iguala attacked and arrested 43 of his college classmates to
stop them from protesting a speech by the then-mayor's wife, who had been linked
with drug gangs in the area. Six months later, the students are still missing
and are now presumed dead.

Garcia came to the United States with one of three groups to ask the American
public and its government to take a bold stance against the Mexican government
in response to the students' disappearance.

The Caravan 43, as the three groups are collectively called, received a fair
share of news coverage during its first week in the United States. But what was
not covered was the American public's lack of information about the situation in
Mexico.

That dearth was evident during the group's five-day trip through Central Texas
earlier this month. Audience members seemed ill-informed about the issue and
some organizers who presented the group mispronounced the name of the town where
the school is located, Ayotzinapa, a widely-known hashtag on Twitter.

And though the group drew crowds, those crowds were small - fewer than 100
people in most cases.

"It's part of this apathy towards more bad news and towards bad news in a
situation where there's no solution to the problems," said Katsuo Nishikawa, a
professor at Trinity University. "As humans, we can very easily turn things off
if we see a big problem but have no solution. Think climate change, think ISIS."

The case of the missing students falls very much under that category.

The Mexican attorney general's office concluded in January that the city of
Iguala's municipal police, acting on the orders of then-mayor Jose Luis Abarca,
attacked and arrested the students, then turned them over to a local drug gang
called Guerreros Unidos, which killed the students, burned their bodies and
threw their remains into a river.

In November, the attorney general's office said they had found the remains of a
missing student in a trash heap. But an Argentinian forensic team investigating
the case with the Mexican government said they were not present when those
remains were found and said there is no scientific evidence to show they belong
to a missing student.

Eyewitnesses to a second attack the night of the disappearances say they were
attacked by masked men wearing military uniforms, raising suspicions that the
Mexican military was involved in the attack - a claim which the government has
denied.

But among the Mexican populace, that thought is hard to shrug off. Especially
when earlier this month, ex-president Felipe Calderon said the capture of a drug
cartel leader was hampered during his presidency by collusion between the state
government of Michoacan and the drug cartel.

"We are here to expose the lies of our government," said Maria de Jesus
Tlatempa, whose 18-year-old son was among those taken.

"We are not the only ones," said Garcia, who said he witnessed the attack by the
masked men but hid behind an electricity pole and was able to get away. "Beyond
the 43 that disappeared that night, there are 23,000 more that have disappeared
in the last 10 years."

In 2006, then-president Calderon launched a full-on attack on drug cartels in
Mexico which has resulted in ongoing conflict between the state and the drug
gangs that has left more than 100,000 dead in its wake.

Garcia said the group's trip is generating more interest in the disappearance of
the students. But he said it has been frustrating to see how little the news has
gotten out to people on this side of the border.

"We don't blame them though," he said. "We just want to keep spreading the word
and hopefully get people interested."

Like its citizenry, the American government has remained mostly quiet about the
case in the six months since the disappearance.

"I haven't heard any government officials in the U.S. who have talked about
this," said Alfonso Gonzales, a professor at the University of Texas. "The most
that has been said was President Obama telling (Mexican President) Enrique Peña
Nieto he had concerns about security in Mexico. But that's lip service.

"It's really consistent with U.S. foreign policy worldwide," he continued. "We
know China has a human rights record but we still trade with them.... If this
was Venezuela, we would be denouncing them and calling for international
sanctions for the missing students."

Still, the traveling groups are making headway, however small. The Austin City
Council and the Texas Senate both passed unanimous resolutions supporting the
caravan, and on March 20, ahead of the caravan's visit to Dallas, the Mexican
Consulate there released a statement denouncing the disappearance of the
students back in September.

"We're here for action," Garcia said. "We don't just want to come here and take
pictures with people to take back home. Because those are only memories. We
don't want memories. We want action."

Specifically, the group wants the U.S. to stop funding the Mexican military,
which they believe participated in the attack in Iguala, and to pressure Mexico
into allowing an open and transparent independent investigation of the case.
They are asking the American public to call their elected representatives and
petition them for those causes.

Nishikawa thinks the caravan can make an impact, especially with a charismatic
speaker like Garcia, a poor but educated farmer, who, along with his classmates,
was training to become a teacher to help improve the quality of life in his
impoverished rural town.

"We admire the progress we see in other countries," Garcia told the crowd in San
Antonio. "That here in the U.S. people can go and study and live a better life.
We want that, too. But we can't do that under the current situation."

"People can become used to corruption and other anomalies in government," he
said. "But we cannot become indifferent to daily death.... We may be poor and we
may be farmers but we will never let ourselves be fooled. We never have and we
never will. We would rather die than stop looking for answers."

After events, Garcia is treated like a rock star. Audience members come up to
shake his hand and say how brave they think he is. They ask to take photos with
him and ask his opinion on other political matters.

But Garcia shies away from the spotlight. He does not want to be the center of
attention. He does not want to be a celebrity. He wants people to care.

Contact James Barragan at 512-445-3645.

Twitter: @James_Barragan

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 26, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Salt Lick owner touts responsible growth for the Hill Country

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1737 words


DRIFTWOOD - Sitting at a pecan wood table, Scott Roberts picked at a plate of
his famous brisket, sipped on wine made with grapes from his vineyard and laid
out a plan to transform the northern Hays County area that his family has
inhabited since the mid-1800s.

Roberts, the owner of the Salt Lick barbecue restaurant who turned his parents'
Driftwood treasure into a corporate empire, is building a 100-home gated
community and retail center on the 540-acre property he owns to the restaurant's
west. To prove that responsible development is possible in the fragile Hill
Country, Roberts said he is using the highest environmental standards. The first
lots for the estimated

$1 million homes will be sold this spring.

"We have owned this property forever, and this is a legacy thing," said Roberts,
sporting a ponytail, a Fu Manchu mustache and a belly befitting a purveyor of
beef and wine. "The overriding goal was that, for Onion Creek, you'd be able to
swim in it before and after the development because I grew up swimming in it."

Roberts' mission of staying true to the land his family has called home for more
than a century will be aided by another time-honored tradition: small-town
politicking. As the owner of perhaps Hays County's most well-known destination,
Roberts is a small-town king, and his restaurant has become a court for local
politics.

Many elected officials from both major parties have held fundraisers there,
representing hundreds of thousands of dollars of in-kind contributions from
Roberts in the form of event space and smoked meat. When Rick Perry defeated Kay
Bailey Hutchison in the 2010 GOP primary for governor, he held his victory party
there. And when Hays County commissioners were sued in 1999 for allegedly
skirting the Open Meetings Act, the meeting in question was at the Salt Lick.
(The lawsuit was unsuccessful.)

Amenities for the development are being financed in part by the Driftwood
Economic Development Municipal Management District, a government entity created
by the Legislature for Roberts in 2009. The district consists of his family's
property around the Salt Lick and levies a 1.25 percent sales tax at the
restaurant; it was approved in a 2009 referendum with Roberts as the lone voter.

And Roberts is back at the Legislature this session, hoping to win further
changes in state law that would benefit his business enterprises.

Former Hays County Commissioner Jeff Barton, the son of publisher and politician
Bob Barton, said the Salt Lick wasn't a political force before Scott Roberts.

"They didn't throw their weight around countywide in any way and weren't heavily
political. That's something that Scott and his wife and his family have
developed on their own," said Barton, whom Roberts has supported. "He's a
pragmatist, and he's a shrewd person. I don't think he's an ideologue, and he's
also willing to work with whoever is in power and try to be constructive."

Roberts might be the king of Driftwood, which will be the name of his
development, but he rejects the notion that he is a Hays County kingmaker: Only
incumbents are allowed to host fundraisers at the Salt Lick.

"You don't get to get here until you're already there," he said.

Driftwood drive

Driving a black Cadillac Escalade on and off unfinished roads around the
property, the usually soft-spoken Roberts became giddy as he pointed out road
widths, drainage walls and replanted trees, explaining how each feature will
benefit the environment.

"We're trying to be as sustainable as possible," he said. "We call it recycling
now. When I was growing up, we called it making do."

Building will be limited to designated "envelopes" within each one-acre lot.
Rainwater will be collected on every house, piped by the district and injected
into the aquifer. Five acres of open space will be set aside for the endangered
golden-cheeked warbler.

Roberts and his consultants said the neighborhood will have about one-fifth of
the houses that they could have squeezed onto the property, as many developers
do to maximize profit. Almost half of the property will remain open space, and
Roberts is planting new vineyards in the development.

During the drive, Roberts paused his pitch on the neighborhood's green
credentials only for occasional tidbits of family lore or local history. When
Onion Creek would overflow and scatter debris along its curving banks, the
settlers would gather logs brought by the floods and use it for firewood. They
called the place Driftwood.

His paternal grandmother's family, the Howards, were among those early
residents. Bettie Howards' courtship with a rougher fellow named James Roberts
explains how they came to own the property, which is surrounded on two sides by
one of the creek's curves: "The Robertses danced and drank, and the Howards went
to church."

Consequently, Bettie had to elope and was cut off from her family. The newlyweds
lived in Niederwald for two years before being welcomed back into the fold. They
moved back to Driftwood, had nine children and bought the property where
Roberts' parents would establish the Salt Lick and where Roberts is planning his
subdivision.

His father, Thurman, met his Japanese-American mother, Hisako, when he was in
Hawaii during World War II. In 1967, they opened a weekends-only local eatery
off RM 1826, a business that would grow under Scott Roberts to a seven-day,
three-location operation offering cookbooks and merchandise while hosting
weddings and music festivals.

It's this history that Roberts said makes him dedicated to preserving the
integrity of the land. So why not leave the property undeveloped or deed it over
to a conservancy?

"It doesn't need to be trampled on, but it doesn't need to be enjoyed by just
one person," Roberts said.

Along for the driving tour was Ken Manning, a consultant for the project and a
former manager at the Lower Colorado River Authority. Manning, a longtime
environmental activist, once fought against LCRA pipelines that he blames for an
explosion of development in the sensitive Hill Country. Now he's working on a
subdivision that will draw water from those pipelines, which are now owned by
the West Travis County Public Utility Agency. The Hays County Commissioners
Court appointed Roberts to the utility's board.

Manning said he signed on to the project because of Roberts' commitment to
environmental protection.

"Part of what we're trying to do here is raise the bar for the other
developers," Manning said. "It can be done. You can make money on it."

Reds and blues

After the tour, Roberts hopped behind the bar of his Salt Lick Cellars tasting
room and pulled down a bottle of Fall Creek Vineyards' GSM red, which is made
from grenache, syrah and mourvedre grapes grown at the Salt Lick.

Roberts seems to be as passionate about wine as he is about barbecue. Despite
the Hill Country's rocky terrain, the banks of Onion Creek, he contends, are
top-notch grape-growing turf because the frequent floods deposit a rich layer of
soil. (He once sent a sample to a California laboratory that works with Napa
Valley growers and was told the soil was great for grapes, although Texas'
climate is not. That's why he uses "hot-weather grapes" from the Mediterranean
region.)

He was less passionate when the conversation turned to politics. Roberts, a
Democrat who served on the Austin Planning Commission in the 1990s, doesn't let
ideology get in the way of his relationships with local officials. He has
donated to both parties and usually doesn't contribute to individual campaigns
outside of his in-kind giving through Salt Lick fundraisers, which he often
doesn't attend.

He recently made an exception to donate to the campaign of Gov. Greg Abbott.
Roberts' wife is disabled, and the family admired how Abbott made his wheelchair
a point of pride on the campaign trail. Before that, Roberts said, the only
candidate he actively supported was Patrick Rose, the former Hays County state
representative who authored the bill that created Roberts' development district
in 2009.

The district is collecting about $12,000 per month and has tackled projects such
as adding fire lines and safety improvements to RM 1826. When people move in, it
will manage essential services such as water and sewers and could eventually
launch economic development programs, just like a city or county.

Republican state Rep. Jason Isaac is carrying two bills in the current session
that apply only to the Driftwood development. The first would expand the
district's powers, remove legal hurdles for levying a property tax and exempt
the district's board from rules that prevent public officials from casting votes
that benefit them financially. The other would exempt the district from a rule
that prevents wine from being made and sold by the same permit holder.

Special development districts are heralded by supporters as a way to encourage
economic growth while taxing only the people who will benefit from the growth.
Critics, however, are increasingly skeptical of the relationship between the
legislators who create the districts and the developers, who are often campaign
donors.

Buda resident Jeff Usakewicz said Isaac's work on the Driftwood district
"smells."

"I don't have any ax to grind with Mr. Roberts, but I think it's going far and
above the call of special interests to be serving the interest of one guy," he
said. "It's too political."

Roberts calmly shrugs off any suggestion that he gets special attention from
elected officials because of the fundraisers, which he also hosts at no charge
for such local causes as the Hill Country Conservancy, the Dripping Springs High
School marching band and St. Stephen's Episcopal School.

Convincing Rose and Isaac to create and amend the special district was
difficult, he said, but they agreed because it will benefit the public and not
just Roberts.

"It took us three times to convince them that this was going to be better than
just going to the family. It was not an easy sell," he said.

Isaac, who hosts an annual fundraiser at the Salt Lick, said the decision to
carry legislation for Roberts was the same as it was for an 8-year-old girl who
wrote him about making safety improvements down the road on RM 1826.

"If he calls and asked me to do something, and I think it's reasonable and
doesn't go against my principles, it's no different than when an 8-year-old girl
calls and asks me to fix a road," he said.

Contact Sean Collins Walsh

at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @seancwalsh

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 26, 2015 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Incoherent conservatives see freedom fighters Marxing time

BYLINE: Jody Seaborn American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 729 words


What's a Republican speech to a Republican crowd without a dash of Ronald
Reagan?

Gov. Greg Abbott added his pinch of Reagan on Tuesday when he spoke at the Texas
Public Policy Foundation's new downtown home. "You all remember that Ronald
Reagan forewarned that freedom is never more than one generation away from
extinction," Abbott said, referencing Reagan's frequently referenced Jan. 5,
1967, inaugural address as governor of California. "Our generation confronts
that very threat today, and the irony is the threat is not coming from some
foreign government or some foreign land. The threat to our freedom is coming
from our own government and our own leaders."

But Texas is resisting, Abbott said, and thank goodness. "America needs Texas.
If we lose Texas, we lose America," the governor said.

Warning also that Texas could be lost from within, Abbott has encouraged
lawmakers to restrain numerous municipal ordinances, such as Denton's ban on
fracking, in the name of individual liberty and private property rights.

As Texas attorney general, Abbott bragged about how often he sued the federal
government for trying to tell Texas how to do things. As governor he must deny
freedom to protect freedom.

On the same day that Abbott was celebrating Texas conservative think-tankery, a
group of tea party conservatives selected by Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick to advise him
on legislation released a letter denouncing a Texas House bill that increases
state spending on pre-kindergarten education - one of Abbott's priorities - as
"socialistic" and "a threat to parental rights."

The letter reflects the fear of imminent political betrayal that so deeply
informs a forceful chunk of postwar conservatism, a strain explored by Richard
Hofstadter in his quintessential 1954 essay, "The Pseudo-Conservative Revolt."
And what characterizes a pseudo-conservative? Well, political incoherence to
start. Hofstadter illustrates with an anecdote:

"The lady who, when General Eisenhower's victory over Senator Taft had finally
become official (at the 1952 Republican convention), stalked out of the Hilton
Hotel declaiming, â  This means eight more years of socialism' was probably a
fairly good representative of the pseudo-conservative mentality."

Hofstadter uses "pseudo-conservative," he writes, "because its exponents,
although they believe themselves to be conservatives and usually employ the
rhetoric of conservatism, show signs of a serious and restless dissatisfaction
with American life, traditions and institutions. They have little in common with
the temperate and compromising spirit of true conservatism in the classical
sense of the word."

I have long been fascinated by the evolution - or devolution as the case may be
- of American conservatism, and briefly mentioned Hofstadter, a Columbia
University historian who died in 1970, and "The Pseudo-Conservative Revolt" in a
previous, related column. "The Pseudo-Conservative Revolt" illuminates the force
in American politics that arose from a primordial hatred of the New Deal and
then moved over the next several decades from the fringes to the mainstream,
assisted by establishment conservatives who exploited its anger for political
gain.

Suffering from a "sense of powerlessness and victimization" by the changes in
American life, the pseudo-conservative "feels that his liberties have been
arbitrarily and outrageously invaded," Hofstadter writes. Pseudo-conservatives
see everything they oppose as anti-American, ungodly or socialist.

Hofstadter thought it "conceivable that a highly organized, vocal, active and
well-financed minority could create a political climate in which the rational
pursuit of our well-being and safety would become impossible." Sixty years
later, consider the conceivable conceived.

Reagan didn't create the reactionary template for framing everything one opposes
politically as an assault on liberty, but he polished the delivery.

The larger point of his 1967 speech, however, is that government is us, and
government, though best when limited, still must act to create opportunity for
all.

That larger point is mostly forgotten; only the quotable lines endure. But
behind their mindless repetition, a repeated lesson: Fierce defenders of freedom
like Abbott are one proposed piece of legislation away from becoming godless
socialists themselves.

Contact Jody Seaborn at 512-445-1702.

Twitter: @jodyseaborn

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Lone Star shines

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1928 words


GEORGETOWN - A year ago, the Lone Star Circle of Care teetered on the edge of
collapse. A financial crisis triggered by rapid expansion, undisciplined
spending and overly ambitious earnings projections threatened services to 80,620
Central Texans - most of them uninsured, low-income and dependent on the
nonprofit clinic system for care.

A year later, Lone Star - the main safety-net provider in Williamson County -
has not only survived but has thrived in ways its most ardent backers could not
have predicted. Key donors provided several million dollars to help Lone Star
survive, and the clinic system also took drastic steps. It cut the number of
locations in half and shed nearly 40 percent of its employees.

A fundamentally changed organization has emerged from the tumult. It is leaner,
more focused on patient care and no longer chasing the entrepreneurial visions
of its former CEO.

Patient services were mostly preserved, with 6 percent fewer being served. But
achieving that after the flurry of staff and clinic reductions afforded Lone
Star's new leader no opportunity to take her time or bask in her promotion.

"It was a tough way to punch a ticket," said Rhonda Mundhenk, who became CEO
after Pete Perialas Jr.'s abrupt departure last May.

The board, which relied too heavily and unquestioningly on Perialas, has beefed
up its oversight and recruited two members with strong financial expertise. Now,
the 12-member board requires detailed financial reporting, has more control over
spending and no longer relies on credit to help pay bills, longtime Chairman
Jack Hunnicutt said. "We are more hands-on."

And Mundhenk, a lawyer with a background in health care, is a different kind of
leader from Perialas, an entrepreneur with a technology background. She has
reined in activities that distract from Lone Star's mission of providing a
medical home to patients, especially those who are underserved.

But in the upheaval, Lone Star lost doctors and other health care providers. In
addition, online patient reviews show room for improvement.

Mundhenk, who has won praise from health care leaders, is described as
disciplined, focused and fast on her feet - a skill she may have honed by
learning to box in 2011 to improve her footwork for racquetball. She competed in
the Golden Gloves and still punches the bags hanging in her garage, she said.

Hunnicutt admires her pluck and leadership skills. He sees a bright future for
Lone Star. "I believe we will be here as long as clinics like ours exist," he
said.

He was among those crediting Mundhenk with the turnaround and praising Chief
Financial Officer Jon Calvin.

"Rhonda and her team have done an amazing job. I can't say enough about it,"
said Hunnicutt, a retired homebuilder who has been on Lone Star's board since
its inception in 2002. "We are meeting all of our financial projections and
serving our patients. We're stable. We're a better organization than we've ever
been."

Mundhenk closed high-cost, low-volume clinics, consolidated administrative
offices from four to two sites, made steep reductions in dental services and
shuttered a lone optometry clinic.

Lone Star now serves 76,000 patients in 16 locations but has managed to open two
new clinics - one in Bastrop and another in Marble Falls. It is paying off a
bank line of credit, which reached $10 million, and is building a cash reserve,
officials said.

"Last year was about restructuring," Mundhenk, 42, said. "This year is about
rebuilding."

She and the board do not measure success by how many clinics they've opened or
how many ventures they've launched. The days of explosive growth are over.

Perialas created two enterprises to bring in contracts to finance growing demand
for health care services. A patient navigation call center and a health
information technology business failed to live up to expectations. As the bills
piled up, Perialas told Lone Star's volunteer board in April 2014 that the
organization had fallen into a $26 million hole, with no clear way out. By May,
he was gone, followed by waves of employee layoffs. The news made headlines.

"It was kind of like a volcanic eruption," said Mundhenk, who took over during
the meltdown. She had been Lone Star's CEO for clinical services and had
established credibility with the board and with Lone Star supporters. With a law
degree from Northwestern University in Chicago, she had been associate executive
director of the University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System - Mile
Square Health Center before coming to Lone Star in 2012.

Executive pay, which had been generous before the crisis, was cut. Perialas,
whose salary doubled in four years, was making $450,000 and received a $100,000
bonus in 2014. Mundhenk took a 25 percent pay cut and makes $240,000 a year.

She began to strip down Perialas' business ventures and saved only what Lone
Star needed to operate. The technology business Centex Systems Support Services,
which provided electronic health record services to People's Community Clinic
and El Buen Samaritano in Austin and CentroMed of San Antonio, went from 56
employees to 16. CentroMed has since moved on to another contractor, while the
two Austin clinics are in transition, Mundhenk said.

"Although the theory behind them was sound, the ability to pay for them was not
there," said Scott Alarcón, CEO of the Georgetown Health Foundation, a major
Lone Star backer.

The chiefs of People's and El Buen said that for their organizations, losing
Centex was tough. They have had to extract their patient data from the system
and scramble to fill the technology void.

"We were in a very tight budget, and timing could not have been more awful,"
said Iliana Gilman, executive director of El Buen. "Rhonda said, 'I understand
what it's like to be caught in a predicament when you're trying to be
financially responsible.'... She worked with us, and it's been a long haul.

"What an amazing asset she has been."

In the midst of such challenges, Mundhenk did not raise doubts about Lone Star's
ability to survive, Alarcón and others said.

"She was so strong," said Alarcón, who is back on Lone Star's board after a year
in which he stepped off but continued to attend meetings. "I've never seen
anything quite like her path to where we are today. We kept clearing hurdle
after hurdle."

Another hurdle arose early this year when Lone Star's electronic records were
breached, compromising the personal information of 8,700 people, including 6,300
patients.

Lone Star discovered a contractor that designed, maintained and secured the
website had inadvertently posted the information publicly six months earlier.
During that time, the data - which did not involve financial information - had
been accessed numerous times by "unauthorized individuals."

Mundhenk terminated the company and called the problem part of the cleanup she
inherited.

That cleanup could not have succeeded without the dedication of Lone Star
employees and support of outside donors, she said.

A stalwart has been the St. David's Foundation, which contributed $8 million in
the past year, said its CEO, Earl Maxwell. In a normal year, the foundation
would give Lone Star $5 million in grants, he said, but it gave an extra $3
million to help meet payroll, pay rent and "dig out of the hole they were in,"
Maxwell said.

The Georgetown Health Foundation, which usually provides $500,000 a year to Lone
Star, kicked in another $750,000 in cash and forgave $750,000 more in rent for
the foundation-owned Lake Aire Medical Center building that Lone Star leases.
The aid totaled $2 million.

The foundation could not fathom "tens of thousands of our most vulnerable
community members going without primary and preventive health care," Alarcón
said. It counted on Lone Star to survive.

So did Central Health, Travis County's public hospital district. It had
contracts with Lone Star to provide services to Travis County residents and is a
Lone Star partner in Medicaid program reform projects. Central Health believed
enough in Lone Star to sustain an investment of $4.7 million last year and boost
it to $5.8 million this fiscal year, officials said.

The Seton Healthcare Family, a partner in five Lone Star clinics, canceled its
dreams of expanding to many more. Seton remains a partner and has contributed
$1.1 million to Lone Star over the past year, according to Liz Johnson, advocacy
and external affairs manager at Seton.

Just before the crisis, Lone Star had 661 employees. By December, it had 406,
and now the total has ticked up to 412. It has been able to hire laid-off
employees, "a bright spot in the recovery," Mundhenk said.

Some providers and other employees sought jobs elsewhere. Lone Star is still
working through those losses and now has 15 provider vacancies out of 91,
Mundhenk said.

In addition, patient ratings on Yelp have been critical of the clinic staff,
delays in receiving care and other problems, earning Lone Star one or two stars
out of five.

Mundhenk said that 85 percent of patients said in a nationally standardized
survey that they'd probably recommend Lone Star to others. It's in the top 20
percent of Federally Qualified Health Centers for patient outcomes and is
rolling out a communication training program to boost satisfaction and
"transform organizational culture," she said.

In a recent visit to the Lake Aire clinic, Mundhenk smiled and laughed easily.
That was in contrast to her reserved and somber demeanor last year when she
discussed the tough decisions she was making daily.

As she showed off the clinic, she warmly exchanged greetings with the
"providers" - the doctors, nurses and behavioral health therapists who care for
the clinic's patients.

Alarcón, a board member who seeks care in Lone Star clinics because it takes all
comers, has noticed the cheerier atmosphere.

"When my family and I go in to receive services, you could definitely detect a
tone and climate change," he said. "People are laughing and joking, and before
that, it was pretty stark."

For her part, Mundhenk said, she has relied on her own tenacity, discipline and
sense of optimism to see her through the darkest days. "It has required the
absolute best of what I have to give," she said.

She does not fear the future. "In 2014, my window was a day at a time, a week at
a time and then a month at a time," she said. "Now we're looking at a horizon."

Contact Mary Ann Roser

at 512-445-3619.

Twitter: @maroser

Rhonda Mundhenk
  Born: Vietnam.
  Education: Dalat High School, Penang, Malaysia, boarding school, 1990; B.A.,
Westmont College, Santa Barbara, Calif., 1994; law degree, Northwestern
University School of Law; master's in public health, University of Illinois at
Chicago School of Public Health.
  Employment: CEO and previously interim CEO, Lone Star Circle of Care, May
2014 to the present; Lone Star CEO of clinical services and previously chief
operating officer of clinical services, May 2012 to April 2014; associate
professor, University of Illinois public health school, 2000 to 2012; director
of development, director of business development and later associate executive
director, University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System - Mile
Square Health Center, 2005 to 2012.
  Noteworthy: Was raised in a primitive village in Papua, New Guinea, in a
house that initially lacked water and electricity. Played rugby and racquetball
 competitively. While she was a member of the Chicago Women's Rugby Football
Club, the team ranked among the top 16 nationally. Won state, regional and
national racquetball titles. Writes fiction and poetry. Maintains a huge
collection of tropical fish.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

IN AFTERMATH, GRIM DISCOVERIES

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 792 words


SAN MARCOS - Hays County authorities said Wednesday that a body found along the
Blanco River in Caldwell County has been identified as Michelle Carey-Charba,
one of eight vacationers from Corpus Christi who went missing in Wimberley after
their house was ripped off its foundation by the record-setting flood Saturday
night.

The county on Wednesday also found the body of a male child, who could be one of
two boys who went missing from the group, and identified two other bodies:
Blanco resident Jose Alvaro Arteaga-Pichardo, who was last seen Saturday after
leaving his job at a ranch west of Wimberley, and Wimberley resident Larry
Thomas, who was swept away by the surging river as he and his wife struggled to
hold onto the roof of their home.

Five bodies have been recovered along the river so far, and authorities are
still looking for eight people who went missing Saturday. To the north, two
people died as a result of Monday's storms in Travis and Williamson counties,
bringing Central Texas' death toll from the floods this Memorial Day weekend to
seven and counting.

Overall, at least 34 people have died in Texas, Oklahoma and northern Mexico as
a result of the storms across the region. In Hays County, the situation could
become more grim as hopes fade for the eight missing people, including
Carey-Charba's husband, Randy Charba, and son, Will.

Also among the vacationers from Corpus Christi were Carey-Charba's parents, Sue
and Ralph Carey, and another family: Jonathan and Laura McComb and their
children, Andrew and Leighton. Jonathan McComb was rescued shortly after the
flood, but the rest are still missing. Kenneth Reissig of Fredericksburg, who
was last seen in Blanco County, also hasn't been found.

Blanco County officials have said that Zachery Jones, 43, was found dead in his
car after the flooding. Hays County still hasn't been able to identify a body
that was found in the water in San Marcos on Sunday and will be using DNA
testing to determine the man's identity.

U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, on Wednesday toured the Flite Acres Road area in
Wimberley, where many houses were completely destroyed.

"Today, Texans are hurting. They're hurting here in San Marcos. They're hurting
in Wimberley. They're hurting in Houston," said Cruz, a 2016 presidential
contender. "Men, women and children have lost their lives. People have lost
their homes."

Cruz said that he was pleased to see all levels of government working in
"harmony" to respond to the floods and that he expects President Barack Obama to
issue a disaster declaration for the parts of Texas that were inundated last
weekend.

For that to happen, the damage has to exceed benchmarks on how many houses were
destroyed, how much the rebuilding effort will cost, how many affected
homeowners lacked insurance and other factors. Gov. Greg Abbott has issued a
state-level disaster declaration for the area, which is the first step in the
process of seeking a federal designation.

"I have received assurances from both state officials and local officials that
the aggregate damages by all appearances will meet those thresholds," Cruz said.

Cruz was also asked about his position on climate change, which scientists say
increases the frequency of extreme weather events.

"At a time of tragedy, I think it's wrong to try to politicize a natural
disaster, so there's plenty of time to talk about other issues. I think the
focus now is on caring for those that have lost their lives," he said.

Also Wednesday, Travis County identified a man who died as a result of Monday's
storm in the northeastern part of the county as 23-year-old Jonathan Walker of
Houston.

On Monday evening, two people who were able to get out of their truck at a
flooded low water crossing told deputies that a third person, Walker, didn't
manage to leave the vehicle before they lost sight of it, according to a news
release.

Austin-Travis County EMS and Pflugerville Fire Department emergency responders
searched for Walker for several hours; his body was found in the vehicle after
the storm.

Meanwhile, Mother Nature has refused to give the area a break. Since the
disaster Saturday, tornadoes have touched down in San Marcos and near Blanco,
new storms have brought additional flooding, and the first wave of summer heat
has exhausted rescue workers and search dogs. Ken Bell, the city of San Marcos'
emergency management coordinator, warned residents to be careful as
thunderstorms continue to roll through.

"It doesn't take much. We are saturated, folks," Bell said. "The isolated
thunderstorms can cause immediate local flooding in your area. I can't stress it
enough: We're to a point where we're missing (eight) people. We don't need any
more."

Contact Sean Collins Walsh

at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @seancwalsh

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 7, 2015 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

Arts

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T12

LENGTH: 2058 words


Flatbed Press and Gallery

"Sightings." Screen prints and collages by Jeffrey Dell. Opens Friday. Opening
reception 6 to 8 p.m. Aug. 21. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday; noon to 5 p.m.
Saturday, or by appointment, through Oct. 17. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Blvd.
512-477-9328, flatbedpress.com.

Theater

"Eros"

ProyectoTeatro presents its newest production that explores human sexuality. 8
p.m. Friday, 4 and 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. $10-$15. Bridging All Movement
Performing Arts Center, 4401 Freldrich Lane, Building 4. 512-420-9078,
proyectoteatro.com.

Theater and dance

"Guys and Dolls." Summer Stock Austin presents the classic Broadway musical.
7:30 p.m. Saturday-Sunday, Thursday- Aug. 14 and Aug. 16; 2 p.m. Aug. 15.
$28-$32. The Long Center, Rollins Studio Theatre, 701 W. Riverside Drive.
512-457-5100, thelongcenter.org.

"Hairspray." This summer's musical in the park is the Tony Award-winning
"Hairspray." In 1960s Baltimore, a girl achieves her dream of performing on a TV
dance show and in the process integrates the show. 8:30 p.m. Thursday-Sunday
through Aug. 15. Zilker Hillside Theatre, Zilker Park. Free. zilker.org.

"Into the Woods." Summer Stock Austin present Sondhiem's Tony Award-winning
musical. 7:30 p.m. Friday, Wednesday and Aug. 15; 2 p.m. Saturday and Aug. 16.
$25-$32. The Long Center, Rollins Studio Theatre, 701 W. Riverside Drive.
512-457-5100, thelong

center.org.

"The Night Alive." Irish playwright Conor McPherson's searing and slightly
surreal tale of a lonely Irishman trying to help a struggling woman. 8 p.m.
Friday and Saturday. Closes Saturday. Hyde Park Theatre, 511 W. 43rd St. $20-$24
(pay-what-you-wish on Thursdays). 512-479-7529, hydeparktheatre.org.

"Love! Valour! Compassion!" Terrence McNally's Tony Award-winning play about
eight gay men who vacation together. 8 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, 5:30 p.m. Sunday
through Aug. 23. $15 -$25; Thursday, $10. The City Theatre, 3823 Airport Blvd.
512-524-2870, citytheatreaustin.org.

"Mast." A new play by Austin writer Elizabeth Doss is based on her family's
history from West Texas to the Dominican Republic. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
Closes Saturday. Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803 Manor Road. $15-$25.
512-686-6621, paperchairs.com.

"Othello." Second Thought Theatre presents one of William Shakespeare's great
tragedies. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Closes Saturday. $25.
secondthoughttheatre.com.

"Sophisticated Ladies." A full on-stage orchestra backs jazz vocalists, tap
dancers, dazzling deco costumes and Broadway star Jennifer Holliday, who brings
classics like "Mood Indigo," "Take the A Train" and "It Don't Mean a Thing (If
It Ain't Got That Swing)" to life. 7:30 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday, 2:30 p.m.
Sunday through Aug. 23. $25-$78. Topfer Theatre, Zach Theatre, 202 S. Lamar
Blvd. 512-476-0541, zachtheatre.org.

Literary events

Michael C. Miller. Speaks and signs "Austin's First Cookbook." 7 p.m. Wednesday.
BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Art

Art on 5th. New works by Byron May. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Saturday. Closes
Saturday. 3005 S. Lamar Blvd. Suite C 110 B. 512-481-1111, arton5th.com.

Art Science Gallery. "From Mountains To Sea." An exhibit that explores the
science and effects of climate change. Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday and noon to
5:45 p.m. Thursday through Aug. 29. 916 Springdale Road, Building 2 No. 102.
512-522-8278, artsciencegallery.com.

Austin Art Garage. "Grounded." New works by Mike Johnston and Jason Eatherly.
2200 S. Lamar, Suite J. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon-5 p.m. Sunday
through Aug. 13. 512-351-5934, austinartgarage.com.

Big Medium at Canopy. "Sun Spots." A group exhibition in a variety of media.
Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday through Aug. 15. 916 Springdale Road, Building
2, No. 101. bigmedium.org.

Blanton Museum of Art. "Natalie Frank: The Brothers Grimm." An exhibition of
more than 30 drawings by artist Natalie Frank. Through Nov. 15. "Impressionism
and the Caribbean: Francisco Oller and His Transatlantic World." A exhibition of
paintings by renowned Puerto Rican painter Francisco Oller along with work by
Cezanne, Pissaro and Monet. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday; 11 a.m to 5 p.m.
Saturday; 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday through Sept. 6. Third Thursday of the month open
until 9 p.m. $5-$9; free on Thursdays. Blanton Museum of Art, 200 E. Martin
Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-471-7324, blantonmuseum.org.

Bullock Texas State History Museum. "And Still We Rise: Race, Culture and Visual
Conversations." Featuring artists from the Women of Color Quilters Network, this
exhibit charts four centuries of African-American history with more than 50
handcrafted contemporary story quilts. "Reflections: African American Life from
the Myrna Colley-Lee Collection." Selected from the private art collection of
Myrna Colley-Lee - one of the foremost costume designers in the Black Theatre
Movement - comes a gathering of mostly figurative and representational art that
reflects the African-American experience by noted modern and contemporary
artists. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Aug.
30. Bullock Texas State History Museum, 1900 N. Congress Ave. $8-$12.
512-936-8746, thestoryoftexas.com.

The Contemporary Austin, Jones Center. Installation works by Robert Therrien. 11
a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Aug 30. 700
Congress Ave. $3-$5 (free on Tuesdays). 512-453-5312, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

The Contemporary Austin, Laguna Gloria. "The Stairs," installation by Monika
Sosnowska. "Looking Up," sculpture by Tom Friedman. "Canopy Tower," installation
by John Grade. "The Stairs," sculpture by Monika Sosnowska. Grounds hours: 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday. Gallery hours: 10 a.m.
to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday. $3-$5. 3809 W. 35th St. 512-458-8191,
thecontemporaryaustin.org.

Davis Gallery. "There's a Summer Place Where We Can Go." A group exhibition that
features new and selected works by various artists. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Monday-Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday. Closes Saturday. 837 W. 12th St.
512-477-4929, davisgalleryaustin.com.

Dedrick-Hamilton House. "I Am Black Austin." A multimedia exhibition that
spotlights African-Americans in Austin. 912 E. 11th St. iamblackaustin.org.

The Dougherty Arts Center. "Bug Stalking." Features artistic bug photographs by
Michelle Dapra Atkinson. 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday-Thursday; 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Friday; 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Aug. 15. 1110 Barton Springs Road.
512-974-4000, austintexas.gov.

Flatbed Press and Gallery. "Rhapsody of Beats." New works by Michael McWillie.
Artist's reception 6 to 8 p.m. Aug. 21. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon
to 5 p.m. Saturday, or by appointment, through Aug. 31. 2832 E. Martin Luther
King Blvd. 512-477-9328, flatbedpress.com.

Georgetown Arts Center. "Road Trippin': Travel Themed Art & Other Adventures." A
group exhibition. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday through
Aug. 16. Georgetown Arts Center, 816 S. Main St., Georgetown. Free.
512-930-2583. georgetownartcentertx.org.

GrayDuck Gallery. "As a Manner of Fact: Graphiti for Civilized Tranquility and
More." A exhibition of works from the 2015 "Eye's Got It" winner Hiromi Tsuji
Stringer. "The Trophy Hunters." A satirical series of drawings by Casey
Polacheck. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday. Exhibits
close on Sunday. 2213 E. Cesar Chavez St. Free. 512-826-5334,
grayduckgallery.com.

George Washington Carver Museum and Cultural Center. "John Yancey: Can U See," a
solo show of new paintings by the longtime University of Texas art professor. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Friday, and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Oct. 17. 1165 Angelina St.
512-974-4926. austintexas.gov.

Harry Ransom Center. "Frank Reaugh: Landscapes of Texas and the American West."
An exhibition of more than 200 works from the distinguished landscape artist. 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday (Thursday until 7 p.m.), noon to 5 p.m. Saturday
and Sunday through Nov. 29. Harry Ransom Center, 300 W. 21st St. Free.
512-471-8944, hrc.utexas.edu.

LBJ Presidential Library. "Ladies and Gentlemen... the Beatles!" The traveling
exhibit curated by the Grammy Museum and Fab Four Exhibits features more than
400 pieces of memorabilia, records, rare photographs, tour artifacts, video and
instruments. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily through Jan. 10. 512-721-0200,
lbjlibrary.org.

Lora Reynolds Gallery. New work by Troy Brauntuch, Andy Coolquitt and Jeff
Williams. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday through Sept. 5. 360 Nueces St.,
Suite 50. 512-215-4965, lorareynolds.com.

Mexic-Arte Museum. "Young Latino Artists 20: Within Reach." Latino artists
younger than 35 will exhibit their work; guest curator is Ricky Yanas. 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m. Monday-Thursday; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday; noon to 5 p.m.
Sunday through Aug. 23. $1 -$5; Sundays are free. 419 Congress Ave.
512-480-9373, mexic-artemuseum.org.

North Hills Gallery. "An Experiment in Collage." An exhibition of collages with
watercolor and water media. Reception 12:15 to 1:15 p.m. Sunday. 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m. to noon Friday and 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sunday
through Aug. 30. 7050 Village Center Drive. 512-345-4546, nwhillsumc.org.

Photo Méthode Gallery."Texas Revisited." Prints by Dan Burkholder. 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday and by appointment. Closing
reception Aug. 21. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-294-9550,
photomethode.com.

Pump Project. "Special Blend." A group exhibition of works created by
Contemporary Austin's Teen Artist + Mentor Program, which includes ten
professional artists who have been paired with ten high school students. Noon to
5 p.m. Saturday and Wednesday or by appointment through Aug. 15. 702 Shady Lane.
pumpproject.org.

Umlauf Sculpture Garden & Museum. "Eve & Shiva: Sculpture by Charles Umlauf and
Gene Owens." 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 4 p.m. Saturday and
Sunday through Aug. 30. 605 Robert E. Lee Road. Admission is free through Aug.
30. umlaufsculpture.org.

Women and Their Work. "Glittering Dystopias." New work by Kira Lynn Harris. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday through Aug 29. 1710
Lavaca St. 512-477-1064, womenandtheirwork.org.

Music

Austin Symphony's Hartman Foundation "Concerts in the Park." Free concerts by
small ensembles are casual ways to enjoy the music of the Austin Symphony
Orchestra. Picnics welcome. 7:30 p.m. Sundays through Aug. 23. Long Center City
Terrace, 701 W. Riverside Drive. Free. austinsymphony.org.

Austin Java Parkway. "Sure Thing," a weekly comedy show. 8 p.m. Saturday. Free.
1206 Parkway. 512-476-1829, facebook.com/SureThingATX.

Cap City Comedy Club. Bob Marley, 8 and 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, $15.
Summer Homegrown Comedy Series. 8 p.m. Tuesday. $5. Erik Griffin, 8 p.m.
Wednesday and Thursday, $10 -$12. 8120 Research Blvd., No. 100. 512-467-2333,
capcitycomedy.com.

Esther's Follies. The a/c might be cool, but the election season is just heating
up. The Esther's crew's "Beach Blanket on the Beltway!" tackles that topical
tournament in "GOP Superstar," in which Rick Perry wrassles with the Bush Boys.
Hillary and Bill find themselves in "Beach Blanket on the Beltway" with a
party-crashing appearance by Donald Trump. As far as romance goes, there's an
app for that. "Computer Love" pits Tinder and Cupid.com against the bar scene.
Comedy, music and magic, too. 8 p.m. Thursdays, 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. Fridays and
Saturdays. Esther's Follies Theater, 525 E. Sixth St. $25-$35. 512-320-0553,
esthersfollies.com.

The Institution Theater. Improv and off-beat theater. 'The Source," 10 p.m.
Fridays. "(expletive), it's Hot," 8 p.m. Saturdays. "Tarantula," 10 p.m.
Saturdays. "Impromp-Two," 7 p.m. Sundays. "The Rubber Room," 8 p.m. Sundays.
Free-$10. 3708 Woodbury Drive. 512-895-9580, theinstitutiontheater.com.

The New Movement. "Pass the Mic," 8 p.m. Sunday. Plus more improv and stand-up
shows throughout the week. $5-$10. The New Movement, 616 Lavaca St.
512-696-2590, newmovementtheater.com.

The Velveeta Room. Stand-up comedy hosted by Avery Moore, $5, 11 p.m. Friday.
Danny Palumbo with Albert Im, $10, 9 p.m. Friday and 9 and 11 p.m. Saturday.
Speed Mic, $5, 9 p.m. Thursday. 521 E. Sixth St. 512-469-9116,
thevelveetaroom.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 14, 2015 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

ARTS

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T11

LENGTH: 2326 words


Arts

Austin Art Garage

"Tales of Heartbreak and Hope." New works by Lauren Briere. Opening reception 6
to 9 p.m. Thursday. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon-5 p.m. Sunday.
512-351-5934, austinartgarage.com.

Davis Gallery

"Terrachroma." Landscapes by Denise Fulton and Mark Nesmith. Opening reception 7
to 9 p.m. Saturday. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Saturday through Sept. 26. 837 W. 12th St. 512-477-4929, davisgalleryaustin.com.

Gallery Shoal Creek

"In Bloom." A three-day installation project featuring Austin floral designers.
Runs Thursday-Aug. 22. Reception 6 to 8 p.m. Aug. 21. Gallery hours: 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr.
Blvd, Suite 3. 512-454-6671, galleryshoalcreek.com.

Grayduck Gallery

"The Only Knowledge Worth Possessing." In partnership with the Contemporary
Austin, the gallery presents multimedia works from various artists of the 2015
Crit Group Program. Opening reception 7 to 10 p.m. Friday. 1 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Sept. 13. 2213 E. Cesar Chavez
St. Free. 512-826-5334, grayduckgallery.com.

Wally Workman Gallery

35th Anniversary Show. The gallery will showcase selected works from their
represented artists. Opening reception 6 to 8 p.m. Saturday. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday-Saturday through Aug. 29. 1202 W. Sixth St. 512-472-7428,
wallyworkmangallery.com.

Theater

"Gusev"

An adaption of the classic Chekov short story with a twist. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday through Aug. 23. Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803 Manor Road.
$15-$30. 512-761-3247, breakingstring.com.

"Industry Night." The self-described "new, old-school comedy variety show"
returns with the best of Austin's indie theater performers doing their cleverest
skits and wildest antics. 7 p.m. Monday. North Door, 501 Brushy St. $10.
industrynightvariety.com.

"Nothing and Everything"

The Hideout Theatre presents improvised adaptations of Chekhov plays. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Aug. 22 and 7 p.m. Aug.23. $20. The Long Center, Rollins Studio
Theater, 701 W. Riverside Drive. 512-457-5100, thelongcenter.org.

Austin Java Parkway. "Sure Thing," a weekly comedy show. 8 p.m. Saturday. Free.
1206 Parkway. 512-476-1829, facebook.com/SureThingATX.

Cap City Comedy Club. Erik Griffin, 8 and 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, $17.
Summer Homegrown Comedy Series, 8 p.m. Tuesday, $5. Tommy Johnagin, 8 p.m.
Wednesday and Thursday, $10 -$12. 8120 Research Blvd., No. 100. 512-467-2333,
capcitycomedy.com.

Esther's Follies. Beat the summer heat with Sixth Street's coolest comedy venue.
The a/c might be cool, but the election season is just heating up. The Esther's
crew's "Beach Blanket on the Beltway!" tackles that topical tournament in "GOP
Superstar," in which Rick Perry wrassles with the Bush Boys. Hillary and Bill
find themselves in "Beach Blanket on the Beltway" with a party-crashing
appearance by Donald Trump. "Computer Love" pits Tinder and Cupid.com against
the bar scene. Comedy, music and magic, too. 8 p.m. Thursdays, 8 p.m. and 10
p.m. Fridays and Saturdays. Esther's Follies Theater, 525 E. Sixth St. $25-$35.
512-320-0553, esthersfollies.com.

The Institution Theater. Improv and off-beat theater. "(expletive), it's Hot," 8
p.m. Fridays and Saturdays. 'The Source," 10 p.m. Fridays. "Highly Suggestible,"
10 p.m. Saturdays. "Impromp-Two," 7 p.m. Sundays. "The Rubber Room," 8 p.m.
Sundays. Free-$10. 3708 Woodbury Drive. 512-895-9580, theinstitutiontheater.com.

The New Movement. "Pass the Mic," 8 p.m. Sunday. Plus more improv and stand-up
shows throughout the week. $5-$10. The New Movement, 616 Lavaca St.
512-696-2590, newmovementtheater.com.

The Velveeta Room. Stand-up comedy hosted by Avery Moore, $5, 11 p.m. Friday.
Chip Pope with Avery Moore, $10, 9 and 11 p.m. Friday. Jimmy Pardo, $20, 8:30
and 10:30 p.m. Saturday. Speed Mic, $5, 9 p.m. Thursday. 521 E. Sixth St.
512-469-9116, thevelveetaroom.com.

Theater and dance

"Guys and Dolls." Summer Stock Austin presents the classic Broadway musical.
7:30 p.m. Friday and Sunday; 2 p.m. Saturday. $28-$32. The Long Center, Rollins
Studio Theatre, 701 W. Riverside Drive. 512-457-5100, thelong

center.org.

"Hairspray." This summer's musical in the park is the Tony Award-winning
"Hairspray." In 1960s Baltimore, a girl achieves her dream of performing on a TV
dance show and in the process integrates the show. 8:30 p.m. Friday and
Saturday. Zilker Hillside Theatre, Zilker Park. Free. zilker.org.

"Into the Woods." Summer Stock Austin present Sondhiem's Tony Award-winning
musical. 7:30 p.m. Saturday; 2 p.m. Sunday. $25-$32. The Long Center, Rollins
Studio Theatre, 701 W. Riverside Drive. 512-457-5100, thelong

center.org.

"Love! Valour! Compassion!" Terrence McNally's Tony Award-winning play about
eight gay men who vacation together. 8 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, 5:30 p.m. Sunday
through Aug. 23. $15 -$25; Thursday, $10. The City Theatre, 3823 Airport Blvd.
512-524-2870, citytheatreaustin.org.

"Robin Hood: An Elegy." Austin playwright Krysta Gonzales imagines an
African-American Robin Hood who magically transcends space and time, volleying
back and forth between the past and the present confronting racism. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday, 7 p.m. Sunday through Aug. 23. Vortex, 2307 Manor Road.
$10-$30. 512-478-5282, vortexrep.org.

"Sophisticated Ladies." A full on-stage orchestra backs jazz vocalists, tap
dancers, dazzling deco costumes and Broadway star Jennifer Holliday, who brings
classics like "Mood Indigo," "Take the A Train" and "It Don't Mean a Thing (If
It Ain't Got That Swing)" to life. 7:30 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday, 2:30 p.m.
Sunday through Aug. 23. $25-$78. Topfer Theatre, Zach Theatre, 202 S. Lamar
Blvd. 512-476-0541, zachtheatre.org.

Literary events

Jennifer Weiner. Speaks and signs "Who Do You Love." 7 p.m. Friday. BookPeople,
603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Joan Borsten. Signs "Malibu Beach Recovery Diet Cookbook." 2 p.m. Saturday.
Barnes & Noble Arboretum, 10000 Research Blvd. 512-418-8985,
store-locator.barnesandnoble.com/event/4870948-0.

Felicia Day. Speaks and signs "You're Never Weird on the Internet (Almost)." 6
p.m. Saturday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Richard Beck. Speaks and signs "We Believe the Children." With special guest
Jordan Smith and Deborah Esquenazi. 7 p.m. Monday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar
Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Jon Fine. In conversation with the American-Statesman's Joe Gross about Fine's
book "Your Band Sucks." 7 p.m. Tuesday. Bookpeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.
512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Sandra Brown. Speaks and signs "Friction." 7 p.m. Thursday. Bookpeople, 603 N.
Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Kay Kendall. Reads and signs "Rainy Day Women." 7 p.m. Thursday. Bookwoman, 5501
North Lamar Blvd., No. A-105. 512-472-2785, ebookwoman.com.

Art

Art Science Gallery. "From Mountains To Sea." An exhibit that explores the
science and effects of climate change. Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday (noon to
5:45 p.m. Thursday) through Aug. 29. 916 Springdale Road, Building 2 No. 102.
512-522-8278, artsciencegallery.com.

Big Medium at Canopy. "Sun Spots." A group exhibition in a variety of media.
Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday. Closes Saturday. 916 Springdale Road, Building
2, No. 101. bigmedium.org.

Blanton Museum of Art. "Natalie Frank: The Brothers Grimm." An exhibition of
more than 30 drawings by artist Natalie Frank. Through Nov. 15. "Impressionism
and the Caribbean: Francisco Oller and His Transatlantic World." A exhibition of
paintings by renowned Puerto Rican painter Francisco Oller along with work by
Cezanne, Pissaro and Monet. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday; 11 a.m to 5 p.m.
Saturday; 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday through Sept. 6. Third Thursday of the month open
until 9 p.m. $5-$9; free on Thursdays. Blanton Museum of Art, 200 E. Martin
Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-471-7324, blantonmuseum.org.

Bullock Texas State History Museum. "And Still We Rise: Race, Culture and Visual
Conversations." Featuring artists from the Women of Color Quilters Network, this
exhibit charts four centuries of African-American history with more than 50
handcrafted contemporary story quilts. "Reflections: African American Life from
the Myrna Colley-Lee Collection." Selected from the private art collection of
Myrna Colley-Lee - one of the foremost costume designers in the Black Theatre
Movement - comes a gathering of mostly figurative and representational art that
reflects the African-American experience by noted modern and contemporary
artists. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Aug.
30. Bullock Texas State History Museum, 1900 N. Congress Ave. $8-$12.
512-936-8746, thestoryoftexas.com.

The Contemporary Austin, Jones Center. Installation works by Robert Therrien. 11
a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Aug 30. 700
Congress Ave. $3-$5 (free on Tuesdays). 512-453-5312, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

The Contemporary Austin, Laguna Gloria. "The Stairs," installation by Monika
Sosnowska. "Looking Up," sculpture by Tom Friedman. "Canopy Tower," installation
by John Grade. Grounds hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday; 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Sunday. Gallery hours: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday. $3-$5. 3809 W.
35th St. 512-458-8191, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

Dedrick-Hamilton House. "I Am Black Austin." A multimedia exhibition that
spotlights African-Americans in Austin. 912 E. 11th St. iamblackaustin.org.

The Dougherty Arts Center. "Bug Stalking." Features artistic bug photographs by
Michelle Dapra Atkinson. 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday-Thursday; 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Friday; 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday. Closes Saturday. 1110 Barton Springs Road.
512-974-4000, austintexas.gov.

Flatbed Press and Gallery. "Sightings." Screen prints and collages by Jeffrey
Dell. Opening reception 6 to 8 p.m. Aug. 21. Through Oct. 17. "Rhapsody of
Beats." New works by Michael McWillie. Artist's reception 6 to 8 p.m. Aug. 21.
Through Aug. 31. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday, or
by appointment. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Blvd. 512-477-9328, flatbedpress.com.

Georgetown Arts Center. "Road Trippin': Travel Themed Art & Other Adventures." A
group exhibition. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Closes
Sunday. Georgetown Arts Center, 816 S. Main St., Georgetown. Free. 512-930-2583.
georgetownartcentertx.org.

George Washington Carver Museum and Cultural Center. "John Yancey: Can U See," a
solo show of new paintings by the longtime University of Texas art professor. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Friday, and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Oct. 17. 1165 Angelina St.
512-974-4926, austintexas.gov.

Harry Ransom Center. "Frank Reaugh: Landscapes of Texas and the American West."
An exhibition of more than 200 works from the distinguished landscape artist. 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday (Thursday until 7 p.m.), noon to 5 p.m. Saturday
and Sunday through Nov. 29. Harry Ransom Center, 300 W. 21st St. Free.
512-471-8944, hrc.utexas.edu.

LBJ Presidential Library. "Ladies and Gentlemen... the Beatles!" The traveling
exhibit curated by the Grammy Museum and Fab Four Exhibits features more than
400 pieces of memorabilia, records, rare photographs, tour artifacts, video and
instruments. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily through Jan. 10. 512-721-0200,
lbjlibrary.org.

Lora Reynolds Gallery. New work by Troy Brauntuch, Andy Coolquitt and Jeff
Williams. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday through Sept. 5. 360 Nueces St.,
Suite 50. 512-215-4965, lorareynolds.com.

Mexic-Arte Museum. "Young Latino Artists 20: Within Reach." Latino artists
younger than 35 will exhibit their work; guest curator is Ricky Yanas. 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m. Monday-Thursday; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday; noon to 5 p.m.
Sunday through Aug. 23. $1 -$5; Sundays are free. 419 Congress Ave.
512-480-9373, mexic-artemuseum.org.

Modern Rocks Gallery. Nirvana "Nevermind" outtake photographs by Kirk Weddle. 11
a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday. Ongoing. 916 Springdale Road, Canopy Building
3, Unit 103. 512-524-1488, modernrocksgallery.com.

North Hills Gallery. "An Experiment in Collage." An exhibition of collages with
watercolor and water media. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m. to noon
Friday and 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sunday through Aug. 30. 7050 Village Center
Drive. 512-345-4546, nwhillsumc.org.

Photo Méthode Gallery."Texas Revisited." Prints by Dan Burkholder. 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday and by appointment. Closing
reception Aug. 21. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-294-9550,
photomethode.com.

Pump Project. "Special Blend." A group exhibition of works created by
Contemporary Austin's Teen Artist + Mentor Program, which includes 10
professional artists who have been paired with 10 high school students. Noon to
5 p.m. Saturday and Wednesday or by appointment. Closes Saturday. 702 Shady
Lane. pumpproject.org.

Umlauf Sculpture Garden & Museum. "Eve & Shiva: Sculpture by Charles Umlauf and
Gene Owens." 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 4 p.m. Saturday and
Sunday through Aug. 30. 605 Robert E. Lee Road. Admission is free through Aug.
30. umlaufsculpture.org.

Women and Their Work. "Glittering Dystopias." New work by Kira Lynn Harris. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday through Aug 29. 1710
Lavaca St. 512-477-1064, womenandtheirwork.org.

Music

Ellen Fullman & the Long String Instrument. Musical pioneer Ellen Fullman
returns to Austin to once again transform an unlikely venue into a breathtaking
experimental performance space. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Saengerrunde Hall,
1607 San Jacinto Blvd. $15. newmusiccoop.org.

Austin Symphony's Hartman Foundation "Concerts in the Park." Free concerts by
small ensembles are casual ways to enjoy the music of the Austin Symphony
Orchestra. Picnics welcome. 7:30 p.m. Sundays through Aug. 23. Long Center City
Terrace, 701 W. Riverside Drive. Free. austinsymphony.org.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 21, 2015 Friday
                                  SA36 Edition

ARTS

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: A360; Pg. T13

LENGTH: 2239 words


Theater and dance

"Guys and Dolls." TexARTS' production of the quintessential Broadway musical
about a couple of gamblers and sultry chanteuse Miss Adelaide. 7:30 p.m. Friday
and Saturday, 2 p.m. Sunday. $40-$50. 2300 Lohman's Spur, Ste. 160.
512-634-8589, tex-arts.org.

"Gusev." An adaption of the classic Chekov short story with a twist. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday through Aug. 29. Additional performances on Monday and
Wednesday. Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803 Manor Road. $15-$30. 512-761-3247,
breakingstring.com.

"Hairspray." This summer's musical in the park is the Tony Award-winning
"Hairspray." In 1960s Baltimore, a girl achieves her dream of performing on a TV
dance show and in the process integrates the show. 8:30 p.m. Friday and
Saturday. Zilker Hillside Theatre, Zilker Park. Free. zilker.org.

"Love! Valour! Compassion!" Terrence McNally's Tony Award-winning play about
eight gay men who vacation together. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday, 5:30 p.m.
Sunday. $15 -$25. The City Theatre, 3823 Airport Blvd. 512-524-2870,
citytheatreaustin.org.

"Nothing and Everything." The Hideout Theatre presents improvised adaptations of
Chekhov plays. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday and 7 p.m. Sunday. $20. The Long
Center, Rollins Studio Theater, 701 W. Riverside Drive. 512-457-5100,
thelongcenter.org.

"Robin Hood: An Elegy." Austin playwright Krysta Gonzales imagines an
African-American Robin Hood who magically transcends space and time, volleying
back and forth between the past and the present confronting racism. 8 p.m.
Friday and Saturday, 7 p.m. Sunday. Vortex, 2307 Manor Road. $10-$30.
512-478-5282, vortexrep.org.

"Sophisticated Ladies." A full on-stage orchestra backs jazz vocalists, tap
dancers, dazzling deco costumes and Broadway star Jennifer Holliday, who brings
classics like "Mood Indigo," "Take the A Train" and "It Don't Mean a Thing (If
It Ain't Got That Swing)" to life. 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, 2:30 p.m.
Sunday. $25-$78. Topfer Theatre, Zach Theatre, 202 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-476-0541,
zachtheatre.org.

Literary events

Mike Cortez. Speaks and signs "Beer Lover's Texas." 7 p.m. Friday. Bookpeople,
603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

P.J. Hoover. Signs "Tut." 2 p.m. Saturday. Barnes & Noble Arboretum, 10000
Research Blvd. stores.barnesandnoble.com/event/4870950-0.

Cynthia Levinson. Speaks and signs "Watch Out for the Flying Kids!" 2:30 p.m.
Saturday. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Jenny Milchman. Speaks and signs "As Night Falls." 7 p.m. Monday. Bookpeople,
603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Jennifer Steil. Speaks and signs "The Ambassador's Wife." 7 p.m. Tuesday.
Bookpeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Brené Brown. Discusses "Rising Strong." 5:45 p.m. doors Thursday. Riverbend
Centre, 4214 N. Capital of Texas Highway. Technically sold out. bookpeople.com.

Art

Art Science Gallery. "From Mountains To Sea." An exhibit that explores the
science and effects of climate change. Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday (noon to
5:45 p.m. Thursday) through Aug. 29. 916 Springdale Road, Building 2 No. 102.
512-522-8278, artsciencegallery.com.

Austin Art Garage. "Tales of Heartbreak and Hope." New works by Lauren Briere.
11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon-5 p.m. Sunday. 512-351-5934,
austinartgarage.com.

Big Medium at Canopy. "Sun Spots." A group exhibition in a variety of media.
Noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday. 916 Springdale Road, Building 2, No. 101.
bigmedium.org.

Blanton Museum of Art. "Natalie Frank: The Brothers Grimm." An exhibition of
more than 30 drawings by artist Natalie Frank. Through Nov. 15. "Impressionism
and the Caribbean: Francisco Oller and His Transatlantic World." A exhibition of
paintings by renowned Puerto Rican painter Francisco Oller along with work by
Cezanne, Pissaro and Monet. Through Sept. 6. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday;
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday; 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Third Thursday of the month open
until 9 p.m. $5-$9; free on Thursdays. Blanton Museum of Art, 200 E. Martin
Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-471-7324, blantonmuseum.org.

Bullock Texas State History Museum. "And Still We Rise: Race, Culture and Visual
Conversations." Featuring artists from the Women of Color Quilters Network, this
exhibit charts four centuries of African-American history with more than 50
handcrafted contemporary story quilts. "Reflections: African American Life from
the Myrna Colley-Lee Collection." Selected from the private art collection of
Myrna Colley-Lee - one of the foremost costume designers in the Black Theatre
Movement - comes a gathering of mostly figurative and representational art that
reflects the African-American experience by noted modern and contemporary
artists. Through Aug. 30. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m.
Sunday. Bullock Texas State History Museum, 1900 N. Congress Ave. $8-$12.
512-936-8746, thestoryoftexas.com.

The Contemporary Austin, Jones Center. Installation works by Robert Therrien. 11
a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Aug 30. 700
Congress Ave. $3-$5 (free on Tuesdays). 512-453-5312, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

The Contemporary Austin, Laguna Gloria. "The Stairs," installation by Monika
Sosnowska. "Looking Up," sculpture by Tom Friedman. "Canopy Tower," installation
by John Grade. Grounds hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday; 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Sunday. Gallery hours: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday. $3-$5. 3809 W.
35th St. 512-458-8191, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

Davis Gallery. "Terrachroma." Landscapes by Denise Fulton and Mark Nesmith. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Sept. 26.
837 W. 12th St. 512-477-4929, davisgalleryaustin.com.

Dedrick-Hamilton House. "I Am Black Austin." A multimedia exhibition that
spotlights African-Americans in Austin. 912 E. 11th St. iamblackaustin.org.

Flatbed Press and Gallery. "Sightings." Screen prints and collages by Jeffrey
Dell. Opening reception 6 to 8 p.m. Friday. Through Oct. 17. "Rhapsody of
Beats." New works by Michael McWillie. Artist's reception 6 to 8 p.m. Friday.
Through Aug. 31. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday, or
by appointment. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Blvd. 512-477-9328, flatbedpress.com.

Gallery Shoal Creek. "In Bloom." A three-day installation project featuring
Austin floral designers who find inspiration in contemporary art. Runs through
Saturday. Reception 6 to 8 p.m. Friday. Gallery hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd,
Suite 3. 512-454-6671, galleryshoalcreek.com.

George Washington Carver Museum and Cultural Center. "John Yancey: Can U See," a
solo show of new paintings by the longtime University of Texas art professor. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Friday, and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through Oct. 17. 1165 Angelina St.
512-974-4926, austintexas.gov.

Grayduck Gallery. "The Only Knowledge Worth Possessing." In partnership with the
Contemporary Austin, the gallery presents multimedia works from various artists
of the 2015 Crit Group Program. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, noon to 5
p.m. Sunday through Sept. 13. 2213 E. Cesar Chavez St. Free. 512-826-5334,
grayduckgallery.com.

Harry Ransom Center. "Frank Reaugh: Landscapes of Texas and the American West."
An exhibition of more than 200 works from the distinguished landscape artist. 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday (Thursday until 7 p.m.), noon to 5 p.m. Saturday
and Sunday through Nov. 29. Harry Ransom Center, 300 W. 21st St. Free.
512-471-8944, hrc.utexas.edu.

LBJ Presidential Library. "Ladies and Gentlemen...the Beatles!" The traveling
exhibit curated by the Grammy Museum and Fab Four Exhibits features more than
400 pieces of memorabilia, records, rare photographs, tour artifacts, video and
instruments. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily through Jan. 10. 512-721-0200,
lbjlibrary.org.

Lora Reynolds Gallery. New work by Troy Brauntuch, Andy Coolquitt and Jeff
Williams. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday through Sept. 5. 360 Nueces St.,
Suite 50. 512-215-4965, lorareynolds.com.

Mexic-Arte Museum. "Young Latino Artists 20: Within Reach." Latino artists
younger than 35 will exhibit their work; guest curator is Ricky Yanas. 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m. Monday-Thursday; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday; noon to 5 p.m.
Sunday. Closes Sunday. $1 -$5; Sundays are free. 419 Congress Ave. 512-480-9373,
mexic-artemuseum.org.

Modern Rocks Gallery. Nirvana "Nevermind" outtake photographs by Kirk Weddle. 11
a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday. Ongoing. 916 Springdale Road, Canopy Building
3, Unit 103. 512-524-1488, modernrocksgallery.com.

North Hills Gallery. "An Experiment in Collage." An exhibition of collages with
watercolor and water media. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m. to noon
Friday and 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sunday through Aug. 30. 7050 Village Center
Drive. 512-345-4546, nwhillsumc.org.

Photo Méthode Gallery. "Texas Revisited." Prints by Dan Burkholder. 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday and by appointment. Closing
reception Friday. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-294-9550,
photomethode.com.

Umlauf Sculpture Garden & Museum. "Eve & Shiva: Sculpture by Charles Umlauf and
Gene Owens." 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 4 p.m. Saturday and
Sunday through Aug. 30. 605 Robert E. Lee Road. Admission is free through Aug.
30. umlaufsculpture.org.

Wally Workman Gallery. "35th Anniversary Show." The gallery will showcase
selected works from their represented artists. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday-Saturday through Aug. 29. 1202 W. Sixth St. 512-472-7428,
wallyworkmangallery.com.

Women and Their Work. "Glittering Dystopias." New work by Kira Lynn Harris. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday through Aug 29. 1710
Lavaca St. 512-477-1064, womenandtheirwork.org.

Music

Austin Symphony's Hartman Foundation "Concerts in the Park." Free concerts by
small ensembles are casual ways to enjoy the music of the Austin Symphony
Orchestra. Picnics welcome. 7:30 p.m. Sunday. Long Center City Terrace, 701 W.
Riverside Drive. Free. austinsymphony.org.

Arts

Gallery Q

"Queer Art: Impressions of Pride." Works by various local artists. 6:30 to 9
p.m. Monday. The Q Austin, 2906 Medical Arts. See venue's Facebook page for more
information.

Theater

"Hunger"

A one-woman performance by spoken-word artist Ebony Stewart. Opens Thursday.
Continues 8 p.m. Thursday- Saturday through Sept. 5. Vortex, 2307 Manor Road.
$10-$30. 512-478-5282, vortexrep.org.

"Los Tequileros"

It's based on a Mexican folk tale about the death of three tequila smugglers at
the hands of U.S. law enforcement. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday; 2 p.m. Sunday.
$15. Emma S. Barrientos Mexican American Cultural Center, 600 River St.
512-474-6379, teatrovivo.org.

"Two Souls and a Promise and Crossing the Rio"

A comedy that explores reincarnation with a twist. Opens 8 p.m. Thursday.
Continues 8 p.m. Aug. 28-29 and 2 p.m. Aug. 30. $15. Emma S. Barrientos Mexican
American Cultural Center, 600 River St. 512-474-6379, teatrovivo.org.

Austin Java Parkway. "Sure Thing," a weekly comedy show. 8 p.m. Saturday. Free.
1206 Parkway. 512-476-1829, facebook.com/SureThingATX.

Cap City Comedy Club. Tommy Johnagin, 8 and 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, $17.
Mary Lynn Rajskub, 8 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday, $17. 8120 Research Blvd., No.
100. 512-467-2333, capcitycomedy.com.

Esther's Follies. Beat the summer heat with Sixth Street's coolest comedy venue.
The a/c might be cool, but the election season is just heating up. The Esther's
crew's "Beach Blanket on the Beltway!" tackles that topical tournament in "GOP
Superstar," in which Rick Perry wrassles with the Bush Boys. Hillary and Bill
find themselves in "Beach Blanket on the Beltway" with a party-crashing
appearance by Donald Trump. As far as romance goes, there's an app for that.
"Computer Love" pits Tinder and Cupid.com against the bar scene. Comedy, music
and magic, too. 8 p.m. Thursdays, 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays.
Esther's Follies Theater, 525 E. Sixth St. $25-$35. 512-320-0553,
esthersfollies.com.

The Institution Theater. Improv and off-beat theater. "(expletive), it's Hot," 8
p.m. Fridays and Saturdays. 'The Source," 10 p.m. Fridays. "Banker and a Buddy,"
10 p.m. Saturday. "Impromp-Two," 7 p.m. Sundays. "The Rubber Room," 8 p.m.
Sundays. Free-$10. 3708 Woodbury Drive. 512-895-9580, theinstitutiontheater.com.

The New Movement. "Pass the Mic," 8 p.m. Sunday. Plus more improv and stand-up
shows throughout the week. $5-$10. The New Movement, 616 Lavaca St.
512-696-2590, newmovementtheater.com.

Paula Poundstone. It's time for comic, author, Emmy winner and cat-lover Paula
Poundstone's annual appearance at One World. Best known for her frequent
appearances as a panelist on "Wait, Wait, Don't Tell Me," National Public
Radio's weekly current events quiz show, Poundstone is a quick wit and expert
improviser. Her crowd work is so good, it's hard to believe it's not scripted.
If she singles you out at the show, ask her what Tom Bodett is really like. 7
and 9:30 p.m. Saturday, One World Theatre, 7701 Bee Cave Road. $25-$65.
512-330-9500, oneworldtheatre.org.

The Velveeta Room. Stand-up comedy hosted by Avery Moore, $5, 11 p.m. Friday.
Brian Gaar with Ella Gale, $10, 9 and 11 p.m. Friday. Jimmy Pardo, $20, 8:30 and
10:30 p.m. Saturday. Speed Mic, $5, 9 p.m. Thursday. 521 E. Sixth St.
512-469-9116, thevelveetaroom.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Huston-Tillotson turns to sun for bragging rights

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 719 words


From the roof of Allen-Frazier, a women's dorm at Huston-Tillotson University,
you can take in a wide, mesmerizing view of downtown Austin.

But watch your step - you just might trip on one of the many solar panels
workers are installing.

In an effort to make itself a green institution as much as a historically black
one, Huston-Tillotson is embracing the solar array installation - ranging over
the rooftops of three buildings - as the latest in a series of moves to expand
its sustainability program.

Over the past couple of years, it has built up an Environmental Studies program
and internship programs with the Texas state environmental agency and nonprofits
like the Sustainable Food Center; constructed a patio out of recycled materials;
started a campus food garden; celebrated Earth Day; and established a student
group called Green is the New Black.

Most famous, perhaps, is its Dumpster Project, an environmental education
initiative that saw a professor spend a year living in a 33-square-foot
dumpster. The dumpster is now used as an educational tool for science teachers
and elementary school students about how to live efficiently.

In part, the efforts are akin to the green-minded ones found on nearly every
campus across America. But at Huston-Tillotson, they are strategic as well, as
the university works to distinguish itself from other historically black
institutions.

"It's a way to make more of a name for ourselves," said Karen Magid, director of
sustainability at the university. "We want to be the greenest (historically
black college) in the country."

Magid said the solar array, installed by Austin company Freedom Solar Power,
should provide roughly 10 percent of the university's electricity and cut carbon
emissions by 262 tons annually, or the equivalent of taking 32 cars off the road
each year.

She said that because of rebate programs through Austin Energy and the general
cost of electricity, the investment in the solar array will pay for itself.

By her calculations, in a small point of pride, Huston-Tillotson has installed
more solar power on a per-student basis than the University of Texas, the
academic gorilla of Austin.

During a recent trip to New Orleans to participate in a conference on
environmental justice, a movement that draws attention to the history of racial
and class disparities when it comes to pollution, members of the Green is the
New Black group found their school outstripped most of their cohort universities
when it came to environmental programs.

But it certainly has its competitors: Texas Southern, in Houston, has a public
affairs school led by Robert Bullard, one of the leading scholars on
environmental justice issues.

Brittany Foley, a 19- year-old sophomore at Huston-Tillotson who made the trip
to New Orleans and will travel to Paris later this year for an international
environmental conference, says "students get it."

The Green is the New Black group provides new avenues to get that word out to
the community, especially in the poorer communities of color in East Austin,
where Huston-Tillotson is situated.

"Sometimes they feel like environmental issues don't apply to them," Foley said.
(Climate change can be a hard sell in some of these communities, according to a
2014 report by the Texas Health Institute. A chief challenge: Many people are
more concerned with more immediate issues, such as jobs, food, shelter and
safety.)

"But (pollution) is hurting them like anyone else," Foley said. "Being so
passionate about it, I don't get discouraged." Referring to a history of
situation of industrial facilities in poorer neighborhoods that have less
political clout, she says: "Open up your eyes. You wonder why our mothers get
breast cancer and our kids get asthma?"

From the student group to the solar array, the efforts "demonstrate the
university's commitment to something bigger than their in-class education,"
Magid said.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Solar power on campus
  How two Austin universities measure up:
  Huston-Tillotson, with roughly 1,000 students, has a solar array with a
capacity of about 240 kilowatts.
  University of Texas, with an enrollment of roughly 50,000, has solar arrays
at its main campus and Pickle Research Campus totaling 546 kilowatts.
  A typical residential rooftop solar array tops out at 20 kilowatts.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               93 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 9, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

OBIT: LOCKE, Robert Edward

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: METR; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 264 words


LOCKE, Robert Edward

Robert E. "Bob" Locke, 68, died on October 2, 2015. He was born in Houston,
Texas, in 1947 to John Henry and Virgie Sexton Locke. He served an extended tour
of duty in Vietnam with the United States Marine Corps. At the University of New
Mexico, he met the love of his life, Valerie ("V.J."). He proposed after three
months of dating, married her three months later, and remained happily married
for another 44 years.

With hard work (multiple manual-labor jobs) and the G.I. Bill, he earned a
degree from the University of New Mexico and spent a lifetime in journalism with
the Associated Press and various newspapers and magazines, for whom he covered
planetary exploration, the space shuttle, climate change, life on the
U.S./Mexico border, archeology, and conservation. He retired as the director of
publications for Austin's Bat Conservation International in 2014.

Whether composing stories on a computer or building furniture in his garage, he
loved working with his hands. He never took himself too seriously, but whatever
he did, he did to the utmost. As a devoted husband and a loving father, he put
family above all else. And we will always miss him.

He is survived by his loving wife, Valerie, his two sons and daughters-in-law,
John and Jackie and Joe and Tess, his mother, Virgie (née Sexton), his brother
and sister-in-law, Wayne and Alicia, his three sisters and brothers-in-law,
Karen and Jim Morley, Nancy and David Huebner, and Denise and Chris Ramey, and
numerous nephews and nieces.

A memorial will be held at his home in Austin this Saturday at 1 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               95 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 27, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Texas factory production up for first time in 2015

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 407 words


Production at Texas factories increased in October, marking its first expansion
of the year and ending a nine-month stretch of flat or declining output despite
another month of fewer new orders, according to a report Monday from the Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state production index, a key measure of factory activity, rose to a reading
of 4.8 in October from an essentially flat 0.9 the prior month, according to the
Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey.

The greater, positive figure indicated a faster rate of output growth. It was
the highest reading of the top-line manufacturing index since December,
according to Dallas Fed data.

Factory activity had plummeted in late spring as the sharp drawback across the
state's energy sector rippled into much of the manufacturing sector. Lower oil
and gas prices, combined with a strong U.S. dollar and a weaker Chinese economy,
sent Texas factory production into a five consecutive months of declines.

After essentially flat production rates in August and September, this month
finally produced some expansion. A measure of shipments jumped, moving into
clear growth for the first time since January.

Those gains helped stanch the loss of factory jobs, the report said. Payrolls
held steady during the month, the first time the manufacturing sector didn't cut
jobs since April. The ongoing reduction in hours worked also slowed during
October.

However, the gains in production did little to change the pessimistic view
factory managers expressed about current business conditions. Opinions of both
company-specific and general business activity remained negative for now,
although managers expressed tepid optimism for outlooks six months ahead.

Their concerns were likely rooted in part by a sharper contraction in new orders
during the month. The report's measure of new orders has been near-zero or in
negative territory, indicating contraction, since the start of the year.

Anonymous comments compiled by the Dallas Fed noted some ups and downs, largely
depending on the manufacturers' exposure to the depressed energy sector and
overseas markets.

"For the first time in a long time, we have a huge amount of uncertainty about
the direction things are headed," said one machinery manufacturer. "Our quotes
remain strong, and our order quantity is solid... but we have no feel for what
2016 will hold. The uncertainty about the future price of oil is unnerving."

Contact Dan Zehr

at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               97 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

TOP LOCAL STORIES OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 675 words


MONDAY

Jumpolin lawsuit quietly resolved: The owners of the East Austin piñata store
that was demolished amid a wave of criticism and the site's landowners have
reached a settlement with little fanfare, the American-Statesman reported
Monday.

The two sides reached a mutual resolution in early November and agreed to keep
the terms private.

The destruction of the Jumpolin store in February rankled a city already
struggling with the specter of gentrification. To many, the demolition of the
8-year-old family store embodied the economic displacement community members had
warned about for years.

TUESDAY

Freescale buyout may create boon for Austin: Now that the $11.9 billion sale of
Austin-based Freescale Semiconductor to NXP Semiconductors is complete, company
executives are looking forward - and promise that Austin will remain "hugely
important" to the new, combined company's future, the American-Statesman
reported Tuesday.

Freescale has a long history in Austin, where it employs about 5,000 people.
Freescale's engineering operations in the city are expected to remain intact,
and its two Central Texas chip plants will continue to operate for the time
being.

WEDNESDAY

Justices debate UT case with Austin trial possible: Supreme Court Justice
Antonin Scalia left no doubt Wednesday where he stood on the consideration of
race and ethnicity in University of Texas undergraduate admissions: The low
enrollment rates for blacks at UT might be a good thing because many blacks
struggle to keep up with faster-paced classes at such top-tier schools, he said.

His charged comments came as UT's admissions criteria received a thorough debate
at the high court, with no clear signal of how the justices might rule - and
with a full-fledged trial back in Austin among the possibilities.

This is the second time the nation's highest court has reviewed Fisher v. UT.

THURSDAY

UT campus carry panel: No gun-free classrooms: Despite widespread opposition on
the University of Texas campus to guns in classrooms, a university panel
Thursday recommended against designating UT classrooms gun-free zones.

The Campus Carry Policy Working Group, composed chiefly of university faculty
members, students and staffers, made that recommendation reluctantly as part of
a suite of suggestions about how campus officials should implement Senate Bill
11, a new state law that allows students to carry concealed handguns in
buildings on public university campuses.

Excluding handguns from classrooms would keep licensed gun owners from carrying
their pistols on campus and would effectively violate the law, the panel wrote.

$1.5M added to SXSW police overtime: To the tune of $1.5 million, the Austin
City Council approved Thursday a new policy that will greatly increase the
amount of overtime available to police officers who provide security for the
South by Southwest festival.

The number of police officers working on security for the festival surged after
the SXSW crash last year that killed four and injured dozens. Many Austin police
detectives have gotten pulled from their caseloads to take on SXSW security
assignments, some as mundane as guarding a street barricade. Council members
also have fielded complaints that the festival was leaving other parts of the
city with fewer officers.

FRIDAY

Austin returns opal to Australian sister city: Austin Mayor Steve Adler and
Council Member Leslie Pool returned a large opal broach to the lord mayor of
Adelaide, Austin's Australian sister city, during their trip to Paris for the
United Nations Climate Change Conference, the American-Statesman reported
Friday.

The South Australian city gave the opal to Austin in 1983, and over the years
several mayors' wives wore it to formal events. But for the past several years
the gem, which an Australian news outlet reported to be worth tens of thousands
of dollars, has been locked up in a safe deposit box.

Earlier this year, the Adelaide City Council ordered a city official to inquire,
as tactfully as possible, about getting the opal back if it was just gathering
dust in Austin.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               98 of 98 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Factory production rises, but makers grow gloomy

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 499 words


Production at Texas factories surged in December, the third consecutive month of
expanding output, but manufacturers grew increasingly pessimistic about the
current business environment, according to a monthly survey released Monday by
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state production index, a key measure of activity at factories in the state,
jumped to a measure of 13.4 in December from 5.2 the prior month, according to
the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey.

The greater, positive figure suggested production accelerated during the month.
Texas factories closed the year with three months of expansion after seeing
contracting or flat output throughout the first three quarters of 2015.

The production index tracks closely with the broader Texas economy, so it
provides one of the most current glimpses of conditions statewide.

The final quarter's manufacturing acceleration hints toward a light rebound
after a difficult year across parts of the state.

Lower oil and gas prices led to layoffs and a sharp drawback in drilling, which
hurt growth in parts of the state most exposed to the energy sector.

The ripple effects of that drawback slowed activity at many Texas factories, but
the rising strength of the U.S. dollar hurt as much or more. In supplemental
questions to this month's survey, 43 percent of responding factory managers said
the change in the dollar exchange rates had an "unfavorable" impact on prices
and sales volumes.

Demand in the European Union and China was especially weak, the survey showed,
with the dollar's strength joined by the weakness in those economies.

While a more valuable dollar decreases the cost of some raw materials imports,
it makes Texas exports more expensive overseas.

Texas produces more than 11 percent of the country's manufactured goods, the
Dallas Fed noted, ranking second behind California in factory production.

"We are no longer able to maintain competitiveness in these foreign countries,
as well as other such as Australia and South Africa," a transportation equipment
maker said in the report's anonymous commentary. "Our primary competition is
China and India, whose manufacturing conglomerates are subsidized heavily by
their respective governments."

That challenging environment left the state's manufacturers increasingly
pessimistic about current business conditions. While the Dallas Fed's report
noted increases in production and hiring during December, its gauge of factory
managers' view of the current environment dropped sharply during the month -
both for company-specific and general business activity.

Future expectations didn't fare any better, the report showed. Outlooks for six
months from now also dropped sharply, with the forecast for general business
activity dropping into negative territory for the first time since April.

"It is hard to see what six months away looks like at this point," said a Texas
printing firm. "We need an infusion of new customers to make it look any
better."

Contact Dan Zehr

at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
