
                               1 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday

DUTY TO THE FUTURE - NEWS CORP. JUMPS INTO THE FIGHT VS. CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: Rupert Murdoch

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1430 words


EDITOR'S NOTE: News Corp., The Post's corporate parent, employs some 47,000
people on five continents. Yesterday, Chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch announced
the company's dramatic plans to become fully carbon-neutral by 2010. Below are
some of his remarks to News Corp. employees explaining why, and how, we'll do
it-and that this is only the start.

I GREW up in Melbourne, Australia; the last few months and years have brought
some changes there:

In Melbourne, 2006 was the 10th straight year with below-average rainfall. And
2005 was the hottest year on record throughout Australia. Australia is suffering
its worst drought in 100 years.

Now, I realize we can't take just one year in one city or even one continent as
proof that something unusual is happening. And I am no scientist. But there are
signs around the world, and I do know how to assess a risk.

Climate change poses clear, catastrophic threats. We may not agree on the
extent, but we certainly can't afford the risk of inaction.

We must transform the way we use energy - and not only because of climate
change. When I look around the world today, I see continued dependence on oil
from vulnerable regions - and oil money going to leaders of countries hostile to
us.

More, our audiences - hundreds of millions of people - care about this issue.
Three quarters of the American public believes climate change is a serious
problem - and the numbers are higher in many other countries.

And, as many companies have already learned, acting on this issue is simply good
business. Reducing our use of energy cuts costs. Inviting our employees to be
active on this issue helps us recruit and retain the world's best.

And for us, as a media company, this is a chance to deepen our relationships
with our viewers, readers and Web users.

The initiative we're launching today will involve every business, every
function. We're not a manufacturer or an airline, but we do use energy. Printing
and publishing newspapers, producing films, broadcasting TV signals, operating
24-hour newsrooms: It all adds carbon to the atmosphere.

Our first step was to measure our emissions of greenhouse gases - our carbon
footprint. Last year, it was 641,150 tons. This includes the electricity used in
all our operations globally, and any fuels we burned.

We could make a difference just by holding our emissions steady as our
businesses continue to grow. But that doesn't seem to be enough: We want to go
all the way to zero.

TODAY, I am announcing our intention to be carbon-neutral, across all our
businesses, by 2010.

British Sky Broadcasting Ltd. [a News Corp. unit] has already done this. When
all of News Corp. becomes carbon-neutral, it will have the same impact as
turning off the electricity in the city of London for five full days.

Our strategy: First, reduce our use of energy as much as possible. Then, switch
to renewable sources of power where it makes economic sense. And, over time, as
a last resort, offset the emissions we can't avoid.

This will take time, but we have already started:

* On the Fox lot in Los Angeles, we have completed three separate reviews of
energy use, and found some areas to address immediately. Just switching the
bulbs in our exit signs will reduce carbon emissions by 200 tons. That's equal
to 200 flights from New York to L.A.

* We've broken ground on the new Fox studios building that will be our first
U.S. building officially certified as achieving excellence in environmental
design.

* The New York Post has begun replacing lighting at its plant - and we'll do the
same at our headquarters.

* The award-winning Keith Murdoch House in Adelaide, opened two years ago, uses
40 percent less energy than a typical office building. It uses solar panels to
heat water, and collects rainwater from the roof to be re-used in the building.

As we upgrade and expand everywhere, building new data centers and office
buildings, from Bulgaria to India, from Chicago to Milan, we will always take
energy into account.

As we reduce our energy consumption, we are also buying electricity from sources
that use less carbon. Both News International and HarperCollins in the U.K. have
entered arrangements to buy renewable energy: 70 percent of News International's
electricity will now come from hydro plants in Scotland, saving 36,000 tons of
carbon next year alone - enough to fill 650 railroad cars with coal. These two
businesses have made such rapid progress that they'll be carbon-neutral by the
end of this year.

Some emissions will be unavoidable. As a last resort, we'll offset these
emissions. A carbon offset is a financial tool to support projects that prevent
carbon from being released into the atmosphere.

When our net emissions reach zero - via a combination of operational changes and
carbon offsets - we'll be carbonneutral. But that's only the start.

The climate problem won't be solved by one company reducing its emissions to
zero, nor by one government acting alone. It won't be solved without mass
participation by the general public in countries around the globe. And that's
where we come in.

WE can do something that's unique, different from just about any other company.
We can set an example - and we can reach our audiences.

Their carbon footprint is 10,000 times bigger than ours. That's the carbon
footprint we want to conquer.

We can't do it with gimmicks. We need to reach them in a sustained way. To weave
this issue into our content - make it dramatic, make it vivid, even sometimes
make it fun.

If we succeed in inspiring our audiences to reduce their own impacts on climate
change by just 1 percent, it would be like turning the state of California off
for almost two months.

And imagine if we were able to take on the carbon footprint of our audience in
Asia. Many of the most serious impacts of climate change will be felt there, and
China and India's emissions are rising rapidly. In India alone, we reach 100
million people.

The challenge is to revolutionize the message.

For too long, the threats of climate change have been presented as doom and
gloom -because the consequences are so serious. We need to do what our company
does best: make this issue exciting.

We can also do some things that are unexpected:

* SPEED, the network devoted to cars and motorcycles, is working on a project
that will peek into the future as transportation, fuels and motorsports go
green.

* "24" is committing to change the way the show is produced - using biodiesel
generators, and powering the studio with renewable energy.

* On July 7, a series of concerts around the world, the LiveEarth concerts, will
draw further attention to this issue - and Foxtel will be the exclusive
Australian broadcast partner for this event.

* MySpace has launched a channel dedicated to climate change: MySpace.com/
OurPlanet. What better way to enable young people to connect with each other and
engage on this issue?

Now, there are limits to how far we can push this issue in our content. Not
every hero on TV can drive a hybrid car.We must avoid preaching. And there has
to be substance behind the glitz. But if we are genuine, we can change the way
the public thinks about these issues.

THERE will always be journalists - including some of ours - who are skeptical,
which is natural and healthy. But the debate is shifting from whether climate
change is really happening to how to solve it. And when so many of the solutions
make sense for us as a business, it is clear that we should take action not only
as a matter of public responsibility, but because we stand to benefit.

Our company has always been about imagining the future and then making that
vision a reality. News was once a small publisher of newspapers in one region of
Australia.

There have always been those who doubted us - who doubted us when we expanded to
Great Britain, when we launched a fourth broadcast network in the United States,
when we launched a cable news network, when we bought MySpace . . .

And they have been proven wrong. At each step, we took a risk and re-invented
ourselves.

News Corp. today reaches people at home and at work; when they're thinking; when
they're laughing - and when they are making choices that have enormous impact.

The unique potential and duty of a media company are to help its audiences
connect to the issues that define our time.

We are only at the beginning of this mission, and we have a long way to go. As
we imagine the future, our responsibility now is to make that future our own.

I hope that each of you will continue to be inspired by that challenge, just as
I am. We have much to do.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A clear threat: New York City sits in a deep freeze after a
catastrophic climate shift in a shot from the film "The Day After Tomorrow."
(AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday

NEWS CORP. CLEARS THE AIR; PUSH TO REDUCE CO2 GAS

BYLINE: CHUCK BENNETT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 514 words


With a warning that climate change "poses clear, catastrophic threats," News
Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch announced a sweeping effort yesterday to make his
global media empire carbon-neutral by 2010.

"We want to go all the way to zero," Murdoch said to applause at the Hudson
Theatre in Midtown.

News Corp., which has operations in 52 countries spanning five continents,
annually produces 641,150 tons of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide.

By switching to more energy-efficient technologies, hybrid vehicles and
renewable energy, News Corp., the owner of The Post, expects to bring its
"carbon footprint" to zero in three years. The campaign is dubbed "Cool Change."

For instance, the set of Fox's TV action drama "24" will use biodiesel
generators, and the main Fox studio lot will use solar-powered golf carts for
transportation.

The use of energy-efficient light bulbs on the lot will reduce the production of
CO2 by 200 tons a year, the equivalent of 200 cross-country jet flights.

Such bulbs are now being installed at The Post's Bronx printing facility, a
change that will also take place at the paper's Midtown headquarters.

Some News Corp. employees will receive corporate incentives to purchase hybrid
automobiles, as Murdoch did himself a few months ago.

"When all of News Corp. becomes carbon-neutral, it will have the same impact as
turning off the electricity in the city of London for five full days," Murdoch
said.

The announcement brought immediate praise from Mayor Bloomberg and, via video
message, British Prime Minister Tony Blair.

Bloomberg said, "News Corp. has always been out in front, and I always thought
that media companies do have an obligation to lead and not just report.

"News Corp. certainly does that, and this is as good an example as we could have
hoped for," added Bloomberg, who launched a long-term environmental plan for the
city earlier this year.

Speaking at a discussion following the announcement, Steve Howard, founder of
The Climate Group, a nonprofit that works on global-warming issues, said the
world must sharply curtail CO2 emissions by 2015 or face disaster. If we don't,
he said, "then we are cooked. We are toast."

Murdoch, who expressed concern about a continuing drought in his native
Australia, said the world needs a sense of urgency.

"We must do this quickly," he said. "The climate won't wait for us."

Meanwhile, City Hall is preparing to embark on a campaign that gives
earth-friendly living tips to New Yorkers, a senior administration official
said.

"We're really just getting people involved in what they can do as individuals to
reduce their own personal carbon footprint," Deputy Mayor Dan Doctoroff told The
Post.

The campaign, tentatively dubbed GreeNYC, will be unveiled in several weeks.

GOING GREEN

News Corp.

Operations: In 52 countries

Employees: 47,000

Total 2006 carbon footprint: 641,150 tons

(equivalent to five days of power used by London)

Carbon-neutral goal: By 2010

Company emission sources: 72% electricity, 23% transportation, 5% other

Online campaign: At www.myspace.com/ourplanet

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUPERT MURDOCH. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday

RE-BILL-DING CITIES GREEN

BYLINE: LEONARD GREENE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 431 words


Renovation and conservation will go hand in hand under a groundbreaking
initiative announced yesterday by former President Bill Clinton to restore
city-owned buildings in New York and around the world with green technology.

Financed by worldwide banking institutions and inspired by the push to reverse
global warming, the restoration project organized by Clinton's foundation will
cut carbon emissions, reduce energy use and save money on utility bills.

"This is an investment with a high rate of return," Clinton said at a Midtown
news conference. "It has enormous potential to grow the economy, and we'll be
solving a huge problem for the world."

The former president is a co-host of the C40 Large Cities Climate Summit, a
gathering of municipal leaders from across the world, who are brainstorming in
Manhattan over ways to reverse alarming trends in climate change.

Participants are paying special attention to the world's large cities, which,
according to organizers, account for 80 percent of the world's greenhouse gases
even though they cover less than 1 percent of the Earth's surface.

New York's city-owned buildings generate 79 percent of the city's total carbon
count, according to Mayor Bloomberg.

To reverse the trend, the restoration project is planning building makeovers
that will replace heating, cooling and lighting systems with energy-efficient
networks.

Windows will be sealed or replaced with models that let more light in, and roofs
will be made white or reflective to deflect more of the sun's heat.

Clinton said the changes could reduce energy use by 20 to 50 percent in those
buildings, while cutting a city's utility bills.

New York is one of 16 cities signed up for the project, which includes Chicago,
Houston, Mexico City, Tokyo, Toronto and Rome, among others.

The banking firms involved include Citi, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase, UBS and
ABN Amro.

Each has committed $1 billion to finance upgrades, money that will be reimbursed
by the cities, with interest, through the savings they achieve from lower energy
costs.

Clinton said cities and private building owners would like to build and renovate
with more energy efficiency but often cannot put up the initial costs. The
partnership will make that possible and benefit everyone involved, he said.

----

Restoration project

Ex-president Bill Clinton yesterday announced his climate

* City-owned buildings make energy-efficient renovations.

* Some global banks have committed $1 billion each.

* Cities will have lower utility bills and reduce their energy use by 20 percent
to 50 percent.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Clinton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday

SILICON VALLEY TO GO GREEN WITH GORE

BYLINE: JANET WHITMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 241 words


As concerns about global warming continue to heat up, one of Silicon Valley's
biggest venture-capital firms is turning to Al Gore to help it make bets on
companies and entrepreneurs trying to solve the problem.

The former vice president, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize this year for
bringing attention to the issue of climate change, is joining Kleiner Perkins
Caufield, the firm that helped spawn Google and Amazon, as a partner.

The move comes as a growing number of venture-capital firms are looking to
expand beyond their traditional investments in fledgling Internet, software and
biotechnology companies into the increasingly hot "green" and "clean-tech"
sector.

As part of the pact unveiled yesterday, Kleiner Perkins partner John Doerr will
join the advisory board of Generation Investment Management, the investment fund
Gore started with Goldman Sachs banker David Blood in 2004 to invest in
environmentally and socially responsible companies.

"Gore will help innovators and entrepreneurs accelerate their business,
technology and policy solutions for the most critical problem of our time,"
Doerr said yesterday.

Gore said he will donate his new salary as a Kleiner Perkins partner to the
Alliance for Climate Protection, the Palo Alto think tank he launched to focus
on solving the climate crisis by pushing for policy changes.

Stock options - typically where the real pay bonanza is for VCs - won't be part
of his donation.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AL GORE Joins venture firm.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

EGYPT'S GOLDEN BOY UNMASKED AT LAST

BYLINE: JASMIN K. WILLIAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 624 words


The face of Egypt's most famous ruler, Tutankhamen, also known as King Tut, was
finally revealed to the public after more than 3,000 years.

ALMOST everyone has heard of King Tut. His treasureladen tomb was discovered in
1922 by Howard Carter. The boy king's life, early death and the mysteries
surrounding it have fascinated the public ever since. This past Sunday in Luxor,
Egypt, his face was revealed to the public for the first time.

It is estimated that Tutankhamen died in January of 1343 B.C. Questions persist
about the cause of his death, but there is no question about his importance, as
evidenced by the splendor in which he was buried.

Tut became king at the tender age of 9. His rule was unremarkable. He married
his half-sister, Queen Ankhesenamen, and met an untimely death at 19. Unlike the
meticulous care in preparing the dead that royal mummies usually received, Tut
was prepared in haste. His body was already rotting. Tut did not have his own
funeral temple, as did other pharaohs whose mummies were found in the Valley of
the Kings. His tomb was probably meant for a high official, but because he died
so suddenly and there was a need to get rid of him quickly. The borrowed tomb
would have to do.

The discovery of the tomb in Egypt's Valley of the Kings was one of the greatest
archaeological finds of all time. There were more than 5,200 precious items in
the tomb for the king to use in the afterlife - including a magnificent mask
made of solid gold.

The mummy's body was broken into 18 pieces. This damage was done when it was
taken from its tomb and precious amulets and other gemstones were removed. The
face was damaged when the famous gold mask was removed. Restoration of the mummy
began two years ago. The face is the best-preserved part.

The public can't get enough of King Tut. It is that popularity that could still
be his ultimate undoing.

The desert heat and climate changes within the royal tomb, bacteria and humidity
introduced into the tomb's environment from the breath of visitors caused the
mummy to decay to the point that Zahi Hawass, head of Egypt's High Council for
Antiquities, feared that Tut could have been reduced to dust.

Hawass supervised the removal of Tut from his stone coffin to a climate
-controlled glass case. The mummy is wrapped in linen, with only the head, with
its buck teeth, and small feet visible.

Although it has been widely speculated that Tut met a violent demise, a CT scan
ruled out murder. It was the first time that such a scan has been conducted on a
mummy. Scientists, including Hawass, conclude that a few days before he died,
Tut broke his left thigh, causing a possibly fatal infection. The scan also
revealed that Tut stood at 5 feet 6 inches tall, was well-fed and had an
overbite, a common characteristic of other kings in his family. His teeth were
also slightly crooked. But all in all, he looks good for a 3,000 year-old mummy.

Hawass is hopeful that the king's new climate-controlled digs can preserve him
for generations.

For more information about the Classroom Extra program, contact Customer Service
at 1-212-801-0100. Today's lesson can be found at nypost.com. Click on the
"More" pull down menu.

---

New York Post activities

* VISIT nationalgeographic.com/ Egypt to discover more about the excavation of
the tomb of King Tut in an article that dates back to 1923.

* LEARN more about the life and death of King Tut. Do the recent revelations
support your ideas about how he lived and died?

* MAKE your own sarcophagus using a shoebox. Decorate the outside with images or
add objects inside to take the mummy into the afterlife.

Today's lesson fulfills the following New York standards: ELA 1c, 3c, 3d, 5a
Social Studies 2 and 3 Art Standards 2 and 4

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -The boy-king's mummy reveals a buck-toothed smile. [Photo Credits:
AP/Ben Curtis] -King Tut rested beneath this gold sarcophagus. [Photo Credits:
AP/Ben Curtis] -Here's what young Tutankhamen might have looked like in this
model created from the mummy's CT scan. [Photo Credits: AP/Supreme Council of
Antiquities and The National Geographic Society] -The boy-king's mummy reveals a
buck-toothed smile. [Photo Credits: AP/Ben Curtis] -King Tut rested beneath this
gold sarcophagus. [Photo Credits: AP/Ben Curtis]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday

RED PLANET PHOTOS PUT DAMPER ON WATER HOPE

BYLINE: PATRICK GALLAHUE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 608 words


Water may not flow on the Red Planet after all.

Photos of craters on Mars -  that scientists originally suspected could prove
that life-sustaining liquids recently ran across the bone-dry planet -  may have
actually been the result of landslides and debris.

"It has always been highly unlikely, because it would be hard to maintain liquid
water" in the Martian environment, University of Arizona scientist Alfred McEwen
was quoted as saying in National Geographic. "Now it appears even less likely."

The ravines were revealed in before-and-after pictures taken since 1999 by an
orbiter, which showed changes in craters over several years. Those breakthrough
images provided some of the most convincing evidence that water had flowed
through them, possibly even recently.

But pictures from a newer orbiter, NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO), are
calling some of those possibilities into question.

One particular several-hundred-yard ravine -  which did not exist in 1999 -
first showed up in pictures in 2004.

But the MRO's Compact Reconnaissance Imaging Spectrometer showed that its
deposits are not consistent with material left behind by the evaporation of salt
water. Also, several newer slopes appear steep enough for sand and other loose
debris to have flown into them.

"Our evidence suggests the new deposits did not necessarily involve water,"
McEwen said.

But the findings haven't definitively ruled out the possibility of water on the
Red Planet.

Some craters have provided strong evidence of water flowing on Mars sometime
within the last few million years.

Some gullies have terraces, which are consistent with liquid flows, and are too
shallow to have been created by landslides or dust, scientists note.

But whatever flows did take place on Mars were very likely intermittent and not
the result of a continually warm climate, scientists say.

"These latest increases in observational capabilities, individually and in
combination, reveal a more complex Mars, a planet with a rich history that we
are still learning to read," said Richard Zurek, a project scientist.

Among the new views' revelations are what appear to be massive entrances to
seven caves.

NASA's Mars Odyssey and Mars Global Surveyor orbiters have retrieved pictures of
dark, round images measuring 328 to 820 feet in diameter.

The Odyssey's instruments found warmer nighttime temperatures, leading
scientists to suspect they could lead to large underground spaces.

"They are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night,"
said Glen Cushing, of the U.S. Geological Survey's Astrogeology Team and
Northern Arizona University.

"Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often
maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being
deep holes in the ground."

The find is already sparking intense interest from researchers, who've dubbed
the caves "the Seven Sisters."

"Whether these are just deep vertical shafts or openings into spacious caverns,
they are entries to the subsurface of Mars," said Tim Titus, of the U.S.
Geological Survey in Flagstaff, Ariz.

"Somewhere on Mars, caves might provide a protected niche for past or current
life, or shelter for humans in the future."

The holes are atop a volcano named Arsia Mons near Mars' tallest mountain, which
has some researchers raising doubts about what could be inside.

"These are at such extreme altitude, they are poor candidates either for use as
human habitation or for having microbial life," Cushing said. "Even if life has
ever existed on Mars, it may not have migrated to this height." With Post Wire
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALL WET?Scientists say these Martian "gullies," as seen by a NASA
orbiter, may simply be the result of sliding rock, not flowing liquid.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday

MANY WARM WISHES FOR RELENTLESS ECO FIGHTER

BYLINE: ANDY SOLTIS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 282 words


From pole to pole, congratulations poured in from around the world yesterday for
Nobel Peace Prize winner Al Gore.

"Of course he's happy for [former] Vice President Gore. . . obviously it's an
important recognition," White House spokesman Tony Fratto said of President
Bush.

Former President Bill Clinton hailed his vice president.

"Al Gore has been warning and educating us about the dangers of climate change
for decades," he said.

"He saw this coming before others in public life and never stopped pushing for
action to save our planet, even in the face of public indifference and attacks
from those determined to defend the indefensible."

British Prime Minister Gordon Brown hailed the award.

"Al Gore has been inspirational in focusing attention across the globe on this
key issue," he said.

Both Republican Sen. John McCain and Democratic Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton said
Gore's award was "well deserved."

Well-wishers said the prize will raise awareness of Gore's cause, the struggle
against global warming.

"This says there is an unprecedented momentum in the world to take necessary
action," said U.N Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.

"Al's tireless efforts to increase awareness of the threats of global warming
have provided a powerful voice telling the world that we need to act now," said
Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), a presidential hopeful.

But there were some critics, as well.

Radio commentator Rush Limbaugh said the five-member Peace Prize awards
committee "has registered themselves as a pure, 100 percent joke."

Czech President Vaclav Klaus, a global warming skeptic, was "somewhat surprised"
at the committee's decision, a spokesman said. With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday

IT'S PARTY PLANET ; MILLIONS AT ENVIRO-ROCK FESTS

BYLINE: KATHIANNE BONIELLO and ANGELA MONTEFINISE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 410 words


Millions of music lovers rocked out at Live Earth concerts across the globe
yesterday -  but the message may have been lost in translation.

"I'm here to, you know, save the Earth, one beer at a time," said Zoe Delohery,
a Pennsylvania college student tailgating in the parking lot of Giants Stadium.

Another Meadowlands concertgoer, Brian Yano, 31, of Manhattan, said before the
show, "I'm probably the least 'green' person I know. Hopefully there won't be
too much propaganda and it will just be fun."

Live Earth -  the biggest musical event ever and a creation of former Vice
President Al Gore, who got a standing ovation when he thanked the stadium
audience for helping "launch this global effort" -  was meant to call attention
to the planet's "climate in crisis."

Besides New Jersey, there were seven other major shows: in London, Shanghai,
Johannesburg, Tokyo, Hamburg, Rio de Janeiro and Sydney. Performers included
Madonna, Bon Jovi, Shakira, Genesis, The Police, Dave Matthews Band, Duran
Duran, Kanye West, Alicia Keys, Black Eyed Peas and the Beastie Boys.

A late show was added in Washington, D.C., with Garth Brooks and Trisha
Yearwood. There was even a show in Antarctica to make sure every continent was
covered. Nunatak, a band of scientists, rocked the Rothera Research Station.

The shows -  which were broadcast online to an estimated 2 billion people -
went off without a hitch, except for a brief power outage in Australia and a
near-cancellation in Rio, where a judge permitted the concert at the last minute
despite safety concerns.

Earlier, Gore showed up at another environmental event held in conjunction with
Live Earth -  the Mother Earth concert in Washington. He hopped a train to get
to the Jersey show, which had other celebrity presenters like Leonardo DiCaprio
and Jane Goodall.

Millions attended the concerts, cheering environmental activism, recycling their
trash in special bins at the various venues, buying veggie burgers and hot dogs
and receiving free seeds to plant trees.

There was some controversy in the days before the concerts, as critics said
artists were taking private jets to the venues.

In New Jersey, as two planes circled over the stadium toting anti-Gore messages,
David Spinall, 30, of England, said that he flew all the way here because he
couldn't get tickets to the London concert.

"Our carbon emissions probably aren't going to be offset by any donation we'd
make," he admitted.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - HOT STUFF: Madonna rocks London as a fan keeps cool in D.C., where
the Mother Earth concert also raised climate-change awareness. (AFP/Getty;
Reuters) - 'HIP' HUGGERS:Al Gore embraces Leo DiCaprio at yesterday's Live Earth
concert at Giants Stadium. In Hamburg, one of eight major world venues, Shakira
bares her non-lying hips. (EPA;  AFP/Getty) - HOT STUFF: Madonna rocks London as
a fan keeps cool in D.C., where the Mother Earth concert also raised
climate-change awareness. (AFP/Getty; Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday

REV. AL: TOP COP KELLY BREATH OF FRESH AIR

BYLINE: DOUGLAS MONTERO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 239 words


Police Commissioner Ray Kelly entered the lion's den of one of the NYPD's
fiercest critics yesterday to speak at the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action
Network.

But the extremely rare meeting between the leaders at Sharpton's Harlem
headquarters turned into an unusually cozy lovefest aimed at developing what
Kelly called "a new climate of respect and change."

"After eight years of Rudy Giuliani and two commissioners that haven't talked
[to us] at all, it is refreshing," Sharpton said after the meeting.

Kelly insisted that the two men have long been friends, dating back to the top
cop's days on the beat - and despite the fact that police officers have often
been a target of Sharpton's wrath.

Despite his recent and well-publicized anger over Sean Bell's death in a hail of
police bullets, Sharpton maintained that he stood with the NYPD.

"We stand just as squarely for justice and fairness when we feel policy is
wrong," he said. "And we stand just as squarely for fighting crime and fighting
wrong in our community."

Kelly added, "I believe the NYPD is working hard to forge a new climate of
respect and change. But we know a lot more work has to be done . . . "

He was interrupted by a woman in the crowd, who shouted, "Oh, yeah!"

Kelly did better than expected. During the speech before about 100 people, he
received only a few audible sighs and groans from the audience, compared to
about seven or eight ovations.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday

BLOOMY AMASSES GAS; 'ENVIRO' MAYOR'S CLOUD OF CO2

BYLINE: BRENDAN SCOTT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 643 words


America's greenest mayor generates enough greenhouse gas to choke the Lincoln
Tunnel.

Mayor Bloomberg -  who has advocated everything from ditching incandescent light
bulbs to taxing Midtown commuters to clean the air -  produces 364 tons of
smog-inducing carbon dioxide a year, according to a Post analysis of the
billionaire's trans-Atlantic real estate portfolio and travel style.

That's a carbon footprint larger than what's produced by 18 average Americans,
53 Europeans or 404 Guatemalans. It's equivalent to keeping 69 cars a year on
the road or lighting the Empire State Building for 41/2 days.

Besides his spacious Upper East Side townhouse, the mayor owns five homes: a
country house in Armonk; a farm in North Salem, both in Westchester; a
four-bedroom condo in Vail, Colo.; a palatial flat on London's posh Cadogan
Square, and a sprawling, 6,000-square-foot beachfront spread in Bermuda.

Together, the properties boast enough square footage to swallow two mansions
like the 10,000-square-foot one owned by former Vice President Al Gore, one of
several leading climate-change critics rapped lately for being voracious energy
users themselves.

Bloomberg's carbon footprint swells to epic proportions when you include his
penchant for reaching his far-flung getaways by one of the handful of private
jets owned by his financial information firm, Bloomberg LP.

In 2004 -  before he took steps to conceal his weekend travel from the press -
Bloomberg was averaging one four-hour round trip to Bermuda each month in his
sleek Dassault Falcon 900.

Twelve such flights in a year would spew 40 tons of carbon emissions into the
atmosphere, roughly as much as two Americans would produce in a year.

Bloomberg's carbon footprint could actually be much larger. The Post did not
have enough information to estimate pollution generated by Bloomberg's four
personal cars, the propeller-driven airplane he owns, or the company helicopter
he's said to use.

Bloomberg has recently become one of the nation's chief proponents of green
living.

His PlaNYC 2030 plan seeks to cut New York's carbon emissions by 7 million tons,
or 30 percent, over the next three decades by charging drivers who enter parts
of Manhattan during peak hours; mandating hybrid taxis; and outfitting
skyscrapers with solar panels. He has also urged New Yorkers to buy efficient
appliances and take public transportation.

The mayor says he has taken such steps himself. He's replaced incandescent light
bulbs with more efficient fluorescent ones at City Hall.

A City Hall spokesman said the mayor has chosen instead to advocate broader
change and donate to worthy causes.

"His personal philanthropy has contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to
better society through improving public health, the arts and education,"
Bloomberg spokesman Jason Post said.

IT'S NOT EASTY BEING GREEN

The "carbon footprint" from Mayor Bloomberg's properties and vehicles includes:

* Beaux-Arts town house - Upper East Side - 7,500 sq. ft., $17M

Emissions: 64 tons/year

*  Bermuda "cottage" - Tucker's Town, Bermuda - 6,000 sq. ft., $10.5M

Emissions: 51 tons/year

*  Victoria flat - Cadogan Square, London - 3,600 sq. ft., $20M

Emissions:  30 tons/year

*  Horse farm - North Salem, N.Y., 4,700 sq. ft., $3.6M

Emissions:  40 tons/ year

*  Country house - Armonk, N.Y. - 2,500 sq. ft., $1.7M

Emissions:  21 tons/year

*  Mooney M20M plane

Emissions:  p.1 tons / hour of flight

*  Dassault Falcon 900

Emissions:  2.9 tons/ hour of flight

*  Condo  Vail, Colorado - 1,980 sq. ft., $2.7M

Emissions:  17 tons/year

*  2 flex-fuel Chevrolet Suburban

Emissions:  9.2 tons every 15,000 miles

His Emissions are equal to that of: 18 average Americans; 404 average
Guatemalans; Lighting the Empire State Building for 4 1/2 days.

* Measured in metric tons of CO: produced, with a metric ton equaling 2,204
pounds

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayor Bloomberg and his properties / homes / houses. (Photos: Tamara
Beckwith; Elizabeth Lippman; Reuters; The Royal Gazette; Jayne Russell)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday

AUSSIES VOTE FOR CHANGE

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 125 words


SYDNEY, Australia -  Labor Party leader Kevin Rudd -  who has promised to pull
Australia's troops out of Iraq -  swept to power in national elections
yesterday, ending an 11-year conservative era.

The vote marked the end of the career of outgoing Prime Minister John Howard,
Australia's second-longest-serving leader.

Besides planning to draw down Australia's frontline troops in the Middle East,
the new prime minister has said he will sign the Kyoto Protocol, a controversial
piece of climate-change legislation.

Both moves may generate tension between Australia and the United States, but
Rudd has promised to maintain a close alliance with America.

The new prime minister is also expected to forge closer ties with China.

Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday

COMING CLEAN ON 'DIRTY TRICKS'

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 809 words


A YEAR ago, Eliot Spitzer swept into office as governor wielding a political
asset most pols would kill for: a whopping mandate from New York voters. Quick
as a flash, he squandered it: Some 70 percent of New York voters think ill of
his job performance, polls show, and most wouldn't vote to re-elect him.

The result: near-total paralysis in Albany, knee-jerk opposition to anything he
wants to do.

Spitzer seems to think that eventually the tide will turn on its own. But if he
truly hopes to change New York for the better -  and avoid a humiliating legacy
-  nothing is more essential for him than to reclaim the public's trust.

At the very least, that will require a full and credible accounting of his role
in the Dirty Tricks Scandal.

Everyone's got a theory about what caused Spitzer's implosion; the one most
often cited is probably right: his ego.

After his election, Spitzer made a stunning mistake: He interpreted his
landslide win as a vote of confidence in him -  a blank check to do as he
pleases, in terms of both politics and policy.

To the new gov, Day One was Spitzer Time. His visions of change were vast; his
moral righteousness, infinite.

But New Yorkers hadn't voted for Spitzer; they'd voted against dysfunction.

They sought cultural, more than political, change: greater honesty and openness
in Albany, the end of sleaze and corruption, a steely resistance to the special
interests, a climate of responsible budgeting and reasonable taxes.

Surely, they didn't elect Spitzer thinking that what really ailed New York was,
say, the lack of driver's licenses for illegal aliens. Or that the state didn't
spend enough on health care.

No, New Yorkers were fed up with state governance -  Albany's sick, cynical
politics, in which three men (the gov and the two legislative leaders) dictated
all policy from behind closed doors. In the dead of night. Serving their
interests, rather than New York's.

Spitzer, of course, knew what voters wanted; his campaign theme, "Day One,
Everything Changes," confirms that.

Yet he was unable, or unwilling, to keep his promise to quickly roll back a
sickness that had festered for years. Instead, he focused on pushing a
"progressive" agenda, engineering a Democratic takeover of the state Senate -
and steamrolling anyone who got in his way.

All of which produced even more dysfunction, more cynicism -  and a cataclysmic
evaporation of faith in him.

Most damaging, of course, was his office's attempt to take out Senate Majority
Leader Joe Bruno, with the help of the State Police, in its Dirty Tricks
campaign.

Spitzer pooh-poohs the backlash: "The stuff with Bruno? That hasn't distracted
me," he told Nick Paumgarten in The New Yorker. "It's about nothing."

Asked recently about a subpoena issued in connection with the scandal, the gov
played cucumber cool: "I really have no continuing interest in it and just kind
of don't think about it, don't worry about it."

Well, if Spitzer truly feels that way, there's little hope he'll ever regain
voters' trust, because it suggests he'll never do what it'll take to get it back
-  that is, come clean.

The gov seems to be playing for time. He seems to think that the longer he hides
the truth (whatever it is) while fending off official findings of wrongdoing,
the more likely folks will lose interest in the scandal. Thus, he's stonewalled
at every turn (even as he claims to be cooperating with investigators).

Meanwhile, Spitzer is hoping to win back supporters by pandering to special
interests, pushing a "progressive" agenda -  and claiming that he plays rough
only because the things he wants to do "are so important."

That strategy couldn't be more wrong -  and his ratings make that painfully
clear. His negatives haven't budged in months.

More tellingly, polls have consistently shown that a majority of New Yorkers
thinks he lied about his role in the Dirty Tricks affair; 70 percent want him to
testify about it publicly.

If Spitzer hopes to recover, he's going to have to find a way to deal with his
ego -  and tell the full story of his office's Dirty Tricks campaign. No matter
the personal costs.

He's got to be willing to lose this battle -  if he wants to win the war.

Anyway, the downside can't be that bad: Even if he played a key role in the
Dirty Tricks affair, it's not like he, say, murdered someone. Besides, how much
lower can his poll ratings go?

Spitzer can simply say the whole episode was just political hardball -  and done
for a good cause. Then he can apologize, take a broom to his office -  and move
on.

Again, that's not likely to happen: Spitzer is famous for fighting hopeless
battles. But the longer he holds out, the worse it'll get. And the less that'll
get done for New York.

The good news for him: He controls his destiny. The bad news for everyone else:
He controls theirs, too.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bruno: Target of failed Spitzer takedown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

RUNWAY ZOOEY-LANDER - ECO-FRIENDLY CABARETS, AND OTHER WACKINESS

BYLINE: SERENA FRENCH, Post Fashion Editor

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 302 words


Who knew Fashion Week was going to become the Zooey Deschanel (right) show?

The indie ingenue opened the ethereal Erin Fetherston runway show by singing the
old standard "Dream a Little Dream." Then she performed at a wildly original
cabaret show for Bono's wife Ali Hewson's organic, fair-trade casual-wear label,
Edun. During the politically charged program (they sang about gasoline, climate
change and avoiding the draft), The Citizens Band played and Rain Phoenix did a
solo, while Ali canoodled with Bono up in the balcony.

Apparently nothing sells fashion - or free trade - like a good set of bangs.

Back on planet Earth, Matthew Williamson knows what his women like and offered
it up again and again at Bryant Park.

Brightly colored chiffon dresses were the predominant styles from this young
Englishman. The details of Williamson's prints and colorful beadwork, his forte,
were really quite remarkable. They were so intricate. As a side note, he showed
a beaded jacket with beaded knickers (or briefs), not unlike what Sienna Miller
wore to her "Factory Girl" premiere party. Maybe she was on to something.

Donna Karan's DKNY provided a flirty, modern take on French gamines of the '80s.
She even encouraged the return of the long jacket over short shift dresses or
skirts.

Karan paraded familiar slouchy knits over minis, sequin T-shirt dresses, kicky
ruffled miniskirts and black-and-cream tweed miniskirted suits.

A beret and two-tone platform Mary Janes completed the city chic.

Diane von Furstenberg steered clear of any particular decade reference, and the
result was a sense of deja vu. With Spain as her dominant influence, she cited
Gaudi, Goya and Miro as references, which were abundantly clear in the
mosaic-tile prints and the pimento, magenta and black palette.

With Danica Lo and Lisa Marsh

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -GLITTER GIRL: Erin Fetherston is in a dreamy state of mind with her
moonlit baby dolls. [Getty Images For IMG] -ORANGE YOU HAPPY: Matthew Williamson
loved this turtleneck dress and sent it out in multiple colors. [Getty Images
for IMG]  -SWING TIME: Tracy Reese is enamored of clean '60s couture for her
femme fall looks. [Lorenzo Ciniglio]  -DOUBLE BUBBLE: José Ramon Reyes pumps up
the volume and keeps the fabrics luxe. [Staphane Kossman]  -A LOVE OF LATIN:
Diane von Furstenberg spices up her collection with some Gaudiinspired prints on
shift dress and matching coat. [Victoria Will] -BERET GOOD: Donna Karan dresses
up easy pieces with just the right dash of '80s flash. [Thomas Concordia] -Zooey
Deschanel.  [JP Yim/WireImage.com] -GLITTER GIRL: Erin Fetherston is in a dreamy
state of mind with her moonlit baby dolls. [Getty Images For IMG] -ORANGE YOU
HAPPY: Matthew Williamson loved this turtleneck dress and sent it out in
multiple colors. [Getty Images for IMG]  -SWING TIME: Tracy Reese is enamored of
clean '60s couture for her femme fall looks. [Lorenzo Ciniglio]  -DOUBLE BUBBLE:
José Ramon Reyes pumps up the volume and keeps the fabrics luxe. [Staphane
Kossman]  -A LOVE OF LATIN: Diane von Furstenberg spices up her collection with
some Gaudiinspired prints on shift dress and matching coat. [Victoria Will]
-BERET GOOD: Donna Karan dresses up easy pieces with just the right dash of '80s
flash. [Thomas Concordia]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

THE NANNY IN GREEN - MAMA MIKE'S ENERGY PLAN

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 651 words


'MAMA Mike' is at it again - telling New Yorkers how to live their lives. This
time, he wants us to cut down on electricity. And pay a hefty price up front -
for the hope of saving money down the road.

But Mayor Bloomberg's not just offering advice; he plans to force us to live as
he sees fit: i.e., frugally, over the long-term - and green.

"None of us can afford to waste money," lectures the multibillionaire Bloomberg
as he pushes his "PlaNYC 2030."

Hizzoner points to those newfangled, long-lasting twisty light bulbs (the
compact fluorescent lamp) as an example of what we should be using to save
money. (As if we can't decide for ourselves.)

The truth is, Mike's ideas may save New Yorkers money one day - or they may not.

But shouldn't we get to decide such things for ourselves?

Not under Hizzoner's plans.

Like it or not, we'll will soon be investing a hefty chunk of our spare funds in
equipment that, like CFLs, will save us money (supposedly) later on. And that
will let the city launch a "frontal assault" on global warming - even if no
scientist in his right mind would argue that it'll have one iota of an impact on
temperatures.

What arrogance.

Last Sunday, Mama Mike cited child obesity and suggested he might go beyond his
trans-fat ban by outlawing "all desserts and sweets." OK, it was only a joke, he
said. (For now . . .)

But he was absolutely serious about imposing costly "energy-efficiency"
measures, forcing electricity conservation and "greening" New York.

"Our wallets [will] benefit in the long run," Mike says, and "so will our
lungs." (Never mind the famous quip by economist John Maynard Keynes: "In the
long run, we're all dead.") These "initiatives" will constitute "a frontal
assault on the biggest challenge of all: global climate change."

How much will it cost? Unclear. But Mayor Mike, a former securities salesman,
assures us that we'll make back the money in just a few years - and save
billions "in the long run."

Unless, of course, Keynes was right - and we're dead by then. Or retired in
Florida.

Or if economic trends, technological developments or new laws render the
exercise moot.

Prefer to hold your money and forgo the eventual savings? Too bad. Mike believes
that's not in your interest - so he won't let you.

So get ready to pay up.

Start with Mike's $30-a-year surcharge on every electric bill. That's not
outrageous, even for folks who don't have an extra $13 billion lying around.

But there'll also be numerous hidden expenses. Like new "energy-efficiency"
building-code regulations, which will boost real-estate costs. And Con Ed
"upgrades" - which must be funded by rate hikes.

Is all this really necessary? Hardly. Bloomberg's pricey plan is motivated in
part by the misguided, feel-good politics of global warming.

But it also represents Team Bloomberg's preference: no new power plants in New
York City.

That's right: Mike's plan for accommodating a million more people by 2030
doesn't envision a single major new plant anywhere in the city. He'll retire,
rebuild and replace old plants where they stand. He'll seek juice from sources
outside Gotham and explore the use of alternative energy.

But as for facilities at new city sites, his report says only: "Land is limited,
and construction costs in New York City remain high."

So how will Mike keep lights burning for the million newcomers? By forcing you
to conserve. No matter the cost.

"Unchecked, our city's peak electricity demand is projected to grow by 29
percent by 2030," the report says. "We will seek to meet the entirety of this
need by increasing our energy efficiency and expanding programs to manage demand
. . . "

Feel free to read that again: The needs of a million more people will be
satisfied by New Yorkers learning to share - rather than by new plants.

And Mama Mike says he knows what's best for us?

They sure don't make moms the way they used to.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bloomberg: Against new power plants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday

INTEL & TERROR: DEMS IN DENIAL

BYLINE: Peter Hoekstra

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 805 words


ONE year ago today, the world dodged a bullet when British authorities arrested
21 "home-grown" radical jihadist terrorists who'd planned to blow up civilian
airliners flying from London to the United States. They might have killed as
many as 3,500 people, rivaling the 2,992 who died in the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

The plot involved smuggling gel-based explosives onto aircraft in carry-on
luggage. Sandia National Laboratory tests of this gel confirmed that detonating
a small amount could produce a large explosion.

The diabolical would-be bombers hoped to avoid scrutiny by airport security by
traveling with their wives and children. Out of hatred of the United States and
Britain, these radical jihadists were prepared to execute their own infants.

The U.K. airliner bombing plot and several attempted acts of terrorism against
the United States since 2001 didn't succeed because of good intelligence and
improved intelligence cooperation. Some of this cooperation stems from the
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act, which Congress passed in 2004.
The Bush administration deserves a great deal of credit for the aggressive
anti-terrorist intelligence programs it has employed to protect our nation.

Unfortunately, at a time when the threat to our nation from foreign terrorists
is growing, the Democratic Congress refuses to show responsible leadership.

* Leaks to the news media have seriously undermined anti-terrorist intelligence
programs. Instead of condemning these leaks for the damage they have done to our
national security, Democrats have tried to exploit them to attack the Bush
administration for spying on Americans, a charge that has been repeatedly proven
untrue.

* The Democratic 9/11 bill that passed Congress last month included a clause to
declassify the top line of the U.S. intelligence budget - a move that will give
our foes more information on our activities, but do nothing to protect us from
terrorists.

* The 2008 Intelligence Authorization bill cut human-intelligence programs but
directed U.S. intelligence agencies to study global climate change.

We saw more irresponsible behavior last week as Congress debated updating the
1978 Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Act (FISA).

For months, congressional Democrats ignored warnings from Director of National
Intelligence Michael McConnell that FISA's antiquated provisions were tying the
hands of U.S. intelligence agencies from collecting against terrorist
communications. Instead, they chose to use the FISA issue to accuse the Bush
administration - without evidence - of conducting "warrantless wiretaps" of
Americans.

Democrats tried to prop up the warrantless-wiretaps charge for partisan
political purposes - by linking it to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, whom
they're demonizing on the unrelated issue of the firing of federal prosecutors.

Worried about the public perception of Congress taking a four-week recess
without responding to McConnell, Democratic leaders tried to force through their
own "fig leaf" FISA legislation so they could claim that they'd addressed the
issue. This so-called fix, which had no GOP input and did not go though the
intelligence committees, actually made the FISA problem worse.

Fortunately, that bill failed to pass the House or Senate; a true (but
temporary) fix to the FISA terrorist loophole submitted by Republicans passed
both houses on a bipartisan basis.

Yet Democratic leaders harshly condemned the bill even though it passed with a
substantial number of Democratic votes; House Speaker Nancy Pelosi promises to
undo it with her own bill in September.

If the U.K. airliner plot had succeeded, the world would be a different place.
Imagine the horror of seven to 10 civilian airliners exploding over the ocean at
the same time: Such a massive loss of life - occurring despite increased
post-9/11 security and improved intelligence - would have been a devastating
blow to the United States, the United Kingdom and the world. We would be
different people, with a starkly different outlook.

If this had happened, perhaps Congress and the president would be working
together to fight terrorism, as we did in the days after 9/11. We would not be
debating whether to improve our intelligence agencies' abilities to monitor
foreign-terrorist communications, arguing over warrantless wiretaps or
exploiting intelligence leaks for partisan advantage.

We know that al Qaeda is planning more high-profile attacks. To prevent these
attacks, we need good intelligence and leadership from our elected leaders. We
can't wait for another attack before we start working together to protect our
nation from radical jihadists and others who would do us harm.

Peter Hoekstra (R-Mich.) is the ranking member of the U.S. House of
Representatives Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pelosi: Speaker promises to undo vital terror-wiretap bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 8, 2007 Monday

NOBEL PANELISTS WARM UP TO GORE

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 71 words


Al Gore is favored to win the Nobel Peace Prize for his environmental crusading
when the award is announced Friday in Oslo, Norway.

The decision would not be without controversy, since it could be seen as giving
greater weight to saving the planet than to saving war victims.

Gore was nominated with Sheila Watt-Cloutier, a Canadian Inuit expert on how
climate change affects Arctic peoples' lives.    Sunday Times of London

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday

AL(ARMIST)'S LEFTY TRIFECTA

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 435 words


HERE'S a pop quiz:

Which failed U.S. pol   itician has succeeded in    regaining his global stature
and impressing his lefty friends, winning the Nobel Peace Prize for creating
alarmist works stuffed with half-truths, outright lies and political propaganda?

The answer: Jimmy Carter.

No, wait! Al Gore.

Actually, both.

It's official. Following his sweep of the Oscar and Emmy awards, Gore is taking
home the liberal trifecta. The ex-vice prez and leading peddler of junk science
has won the Nobel in the category of peace, and presumably science fiction, for
his docu-comedy "An Inconvenient Truth."

Gore's career as a rock star for global warming capable of forcing small
children and seniors to hide under their beds in fear has proved a more
successful endeavor than politics. And he doesn't have to get up as early in the
morning.

While my jury is still out on climate change -  the planet has been warmer at
other times in history -  you may in your heart accept that the Earth is slowly
cooking and still reject Gore as a warming nut.

If the facts are on his side, why does he ignore decidedly -  forgive me -
inconvenient truths? He and his cronies hypocritically hop around the planet
aboard all forms of fossil fuel-burning aircraft and further pollute the
atmosphere by living in large houses rather than studio apartments.

At the core of the anti-warming quest is a willingness to ignore the things we
gain from burning fuel. Industrialization leads to better education and higher
standards of living.

But there is another agenda at work. Warming-ologists like to blast America as
the planet's enemy, while other nations, such as China, emit far more filth on a
daily basis.

Of course, Oslo, home of the Nobels, is not known for its common sense. The
voters ignored a British judge's recent finding that Gore's signature movie is
so riddled with distortions that schoolkids can watch it only after being warned
about political indoctrination.

My favorite Goreism is his assertion that arctic polar bears, forced to swim up
to 60 miles to find ice, are drowning. In fact, said the judge, only four bears
were found drowned -  in a storm.

Consider the company. The Nobelists gave the 2002 peace prize to Carter, a
presidential disaster who has since reinvented himself as a chief critic of
Israel, while making pathetic excuses for Palestinian terror.

The peace prize was awarded in 1964 to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., but it
was handed 30 years later to the terrorist and robber of his own people Yasser
Arafat.

Gore's award should come with an asterisk -  as should they all.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEARISH ON TRUTH:Al Gore claims global warming is causing polar bears
to drown. A judge recently blamed a storm. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday

DEAL OR NO DEAL - ISIAH MULLS TRADE TO FIX KNICKS' ILLS

BYLINE: MARC BERMAN

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 607 words


CHICAGO - While Isiah Thomas announced yesterday it was time to make strategic
changes on defense, there are strong indications the Knicks president/coach is
more desperate to make a trade than finagle with his X's and O's.

Today is a key day in the NBA's trading climate. Contracts of first-round picks
and free-agent summer signings are allowed to be dealt, including rookie Wilson
Chandler's pact.

Thomas made sweeping statements yesterday in which he insinuated some guys on
the club can't play in the manner he wants. The Knicks, 6-15 with the worst
record in the East, faced the Bulls last night.

It would seem truly the time for the Knicks to reignite trade talks for
Sacramento's Ron Artest, who can opt out after next season. With team morale at
its lowest and one of the supposed team leaders, Malik Rose, recently asking to
be placed on the inactive list, obvious wanting a trade, any knock that Artest
would hurt chemistry now is ludicrous.

"I can say that as always if we can improve our team, we will," Thomas said
yesterday, which usually is code phrase for saying the club is active in trade
talks.

When a team is 6-15, nobody is safe and the untouchable tag is clearly off the
embattled Eddy Curry. Unfortunately, Curry's trade value is in the pits. Would
Thomas actually offer him up now for Artest?

It would seem unlikely since during the summer he said David Lee was off limits
and privately told confidants Renaldo Balkman is, too. But Balkman is having a
low impact off the bench, and Thomas pointed that out yesterday in an unusually
harsh assessment of the club.

In fact, Thomas made the admission that he's got to change his defense now to
make up for Curry's shortcomings, with more zone defense on the way and
different help rotations. Curry is an awful pick-and-roll defender and rarely is
able to offer strong help when a guard beats a Knick off the dribble at the
perimeter.

"We'll do some things different strategically," Thomas said. "Not going to
change the lineup. Eddy's struggling a bit now. But I'm confident he'll come out
of it. Shots he's missing and getting, they're great looks. Anytime you get a
shot five feet from basket, consistently, his history is he'll knock those shots
down.

"The defensive side of the ball, we got to help him and we have to do things
better for him. Maybe playing a bit more zone. Helping him out in different
situations. There's some things physically he can't do. My job as a coach is to
find a way to help him to keep him out on the floor," Thomas said.

Privately, Stephon Marbury has wondered if his days are numbered - the incident
in Phoenix may be worrying him. Marbury still hasn't returned to the team but
he's still well in his right in taking time off after his father died. Marbury
missed his third straight game last night and is likely out for the Nets tonight
at the Garden.

Marbury may feel Thomas wants him off the team after telling him he could leave
Phoenix after their dispute. It's been pointed out that other times Thomas has
asked players to leave the team - Penny Hardaway, Shandon Anderson, Dikembe
Mutombo - it doesn't bode well for their future. Their relationship clearly has
been damaged.

But the Knicks have way more problems than Marbury, with Thomas questioning the
roster.

"You always come into the season with an idea on how you want to play," Thomas
said. "And what you think players capable of doing. They may not be capable of
doing some thing I want to do. Strategically I have to do adjust some of the
ways I'm thinking about the game and make sure I get them comfortable enough
where they can play and have great success on the floor."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RISK FACTOR: Despite his troubled past, Sacramento forward Ron Artest
might be the trade Isiah Thomas may need to pull off to save the Knicks' season.
(AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday

FED-UP ISIAH MAY EYE DEAL

BYLINE: MARC BERMAN

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 365 words


KNICK NOTES

Isiah Thomas sounds like a man desperate to make changes to his roster - and you
can take Eddy Curry off the untouchable list.

Today is a key day in the NBA's trading climate. Contracts of first-round picks
and free-agent summer signings are allowed to be dealt, including rookie Wilson
Chandler's pact.

Thomas insinuated some guys on the club can't play in the manner he wants, and
made his most damning remarks yet about Curry, pointing out his flaws and
admitting Curry may not develop into a franchise center to build around.

It seems the time for the Knicks to reignite trade talks for Ron Artest, who can
opt out after next season. With team morale at its lowest and one of the
supposed team leaders, on-the-block Malik Rose, recently asking to be placed on
the inactive list, Artest can't make the climate any worse. Rose dressed last
night only because of Quentin Richardson's knee injury, but did not play.

Thomas said in the summer he wouldn't deal David Lee or Renaldo Balkman for
Artest, but that may have changed.

Thomas' recent rips on Curry could be perceived as bracing fans for Curry's
departure.

"I can say that, as always, if we can improve our team, we will," Thomas said
yesterday, which usually is code phrase for saying the club is active in trade
talks. And there's a growing sense more than just Rose wants out too.

Curry's trade value is in the pits. Would Isiah actually now offer him up for
Artest?

Meanwhile, Stephon Marbury privately has worried if his Knick days are numbered
after the Phoenix incident, when Thomas told him he could go home. The last
three Knicks whom Thomas allowed to leave the team, Penny Hardaway, Shandon
Anderson and Dikembe Mutombo, were soon sent packing.

Thomas also seems down on the Renaldo Balkman-Nate Robinson-Jared Jeffries bench
trio.

"Those guys, you got to have energy to be effective," Thomas said. "Right now
our so-called energy players, with the exception of David, they haven't been
that effective. It's bad play."

*

Thomas said he's not expecting Marbury to play tonight vs. the Nets. ...
Richardson did not dress because of a strained knee tendon, and Jared Jeffries
made his seasons' first start.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESPERATE MAN: Knick GM/coach Isiah Thomas looks like he's itching to
spark his staggering team with a trade - and Ron Artest might be on his radar.
(UPI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday

72 DEGREES - HEAT & RUN ON OUR RECORD JANUARY DAY

BYLINE: JOE GOULD, JILL CULORA and MICHELLE KASKE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


It's the winter of our total content.

Temperatures hit a record-smashing 72 degrees in Central Park yesterday, as
thousands filled beaches, boardwalks and parks from Midtown to Coney Island.

The mark matched the highest temperature for any date in January -  72 was also
recorded on Jan. 26, 1950.

Whether the balmy weather was caused by global warming or an odd weather pattern
spurred by El Niño, it was a climatic topsy-turvy all around the town.

The hot flash got off to a quiet start in Central Park at 5 a.m., when
temperatures hit 65 degrees, smashing the old record for Jan. 6, 63 degrees, set
in 1950.

At noon, when it was 69 degrees in Central Park, Polar Bear Club members, famed
for their icy wintertime swims, grumpily refused to take their usual Coney
Island dip in a ceremonial protest of the weather upheaval.

"For the first time in more than 100 years, the Coney Island Polar Bear Club is
not going to swim today," announced club treasurer Tom McGann, leading about 10
members in a moment of silence.

"We're not having fun . . . Environmentally, it could be a nightmare."

In Brooklyn, kite-boarders surfed off Brighton Beach, and kids in T-shirts used
sleds to go down grassy slopes at Fort Hamilton.

At 1 p.m., when it was 71 degrees in Manhattan and 72 degrees at La Guardia
Airport, bikini-clad gals and shirtless guys showed off tanless torsos along the
Coney Island boardwalk.

As the temperature at Central Park's Belvedere Castle weather station maxed out
at 72 degrees at 1:37 p.m., in-line skater Dee Dee Sides, 29, of Chelsea, had
mixed feelings.

"You can't help but think this is a beautiful day, but is there a global-warming
issue," she said. "This is a thing I do in summer -  it's a kind of weird."

In Downtown Brooklyn, a Payless shoestore on Fulton Street displayed its array
of sandals in the window, while Lollipop Ladies Wear and Shoes had boots and
coats going begging.

Most people seemed to enjoy the warm weather. "I'm on cloud nine here," said
Patrick Gilroy, a tour guide on a double-decker bus in Manhattan.

"I've seen people walking around in shorts and sleeveless shirts," said German
Esquilin, in Coney Island.

But his wife, Diane, watched the sun with a wary eye. "It's eerie -  like an
environmental disaster movie," she said.

WEATHER

Today  54 degrees -  partly cloudy

Tomorrow   51 degrees - morning rain

Tuesday  44 degrees - mostly cloudy

Wednesday  40 degrees - colder

Up, up and away

5 a.m. - 65 degrees at Central Park (busting previous Jan. 6 record of 63
degrees, set in 1950)

10 a.m. - 68 degrees at Central Park

1 p.m. - 71 degrees at Central Park

1:37 p.m. - 72 degrees at Central Park (ties the record for highest January
temperature set Jan. 26, 1950)

3 p.m. - 70 degrees at Central Park

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WINTER WONDER: Bikini babe Nikki Sena, of Deer Park, L.I., frolics in
the surf at Robert Moses Park yesterday as runners lap up the warm weather in
Central Park. (Edmund J. Coppa; AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 26, 2007 Monday

LOTS OF ACHOOS ARE DUE - HIGH-POLLEN SPRING

BYLINE: C.J. SULLIVAN, GEORGETT ROBERTS and LUKAS I. ALPERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 365 words


Big Apple allergy sufferers should get ready to stock up on tissues and
antihistamine, as experts are predicting a spring of sky-high pollen counts.

And that has New Yorkers, already worn down by a wild winter of unpredictable
weather, bracing for the worst.

"Oh, that's just great. I spent the early part of March freezing, now I am going
to spend the rest of the spring sneezing," said Melissa Gray, 26, as she sat
catching some rays in City Hall Park over the weekend.

Experts say that pollen counts are already higher than usual and are set to get
even worse as trees begin to bloom - and the all-over-the-place temperatures are
to blame.

"Mild winters and warm weather, added in with global warming, are all sufficient
to make trees and all the blooming plants blossom more in the spring," said Dr.
Anthony Szema, a Stony Brook University Hospital allergist.

"If you have a harsh winter, it tends to soften the blow somewhat, but that's
not what we're seeing this year."

And later, the city will be beset by grass pollen, followed by ragweed. That all
adds up to more runny noses, itchy eyes, irritated sinuses and general misery
for allergy sufferers.

Szema says the only surefire way to conquer allergies is to get an allergy shot,
but short of that, over-the-counter drugs such as Claritin and eye drops can
help.

When pollen levels get really bad, he suggests staying away from parks, buying
high-grade air filters and keeping indoors as much as possible.

"If it's a bad pollen day, you probably should stay indoors or go on vacation
someplace else if you can," he said.

Some of the "more sensitive people" will notice moderate tree pollen in the air
this week because of "warmer temperatures and fairly low moisture," said Josh
Nagelberg, an AccuWeather meteorologist.

While rounds of showers could pepper our area, including tonight, "most of the
week looks fairly dry," he added.

Today, there'll be mostly cloudy skies along with a city high of 54. Temps
tomorrow are expected to be "breaking through 70 degrees across most of the
area" with afternoon sun, said Nagelberg.

---

TODAY - Partly sunny 54°

TOMORROW - Warm 74°

WEDNESDAY - Cloudy 68°

THURSDAY - Cool 58°

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday

CURRENT FLOWS A CERTAIN WAY

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 817 words


TRENDS. We speak trends. TV recently featured a piece on Hollywood being in
sequel mode because it's definitely the way to go, because the audience is
already made, because it's the 2007 trend. OK by me. Not OK by Will Ferrell. The
guy was offered $29 mil for "Elf 2" which, let us face it, is a large load of
money to basically just wear tights. Ferrell, now a very rich, very successful
elf, didn't like the script. He turned it down.

As to the trend for movie stars creeping behind the camera, comes now Brad Pitt.
You already know his production company's titled Plan B. What you don't know is
he plans to become - bit by bit, film by film - a full-fledged, all-out
producer. And with whom is he specifically looking to produce? You won't believe
it. But believe it. Borat. Can you believe it? The two B's share art,
architecture and film. They're friends. Sacha Baron Cohen even introduced Brad
to graffiti artist Banksy, from whom Brad bought a $400,000 painting. Anyway,
they now plot a co-project. I don't know what. Maybe something about cultural
learnings to make benefit glorious nation of Malibu.

More. G. Clooney. Running hot as a director/producer, he plans for us to soon
see less of him as an actor and more of him as a director. Telling big names
where to go, what to do, how to move and actually plotting out a story frame by
frame is where it's at for him. "Everything else," says George, "is paint."
That's his word. "Paint." Exactly what that means I don't know, but I figure he
- and you - are brighter than I am so . . . figure it out.

More trends. Africa's baby adoption march is not halting with Angelina, Madonna
and Whoever. Next up, Leonardo DiCaprio. Being wifeless, he does not plan to
raise the child, live with the child or endure any long nights rocking it to
sleep. His support will be a monthly check. While in South Africa making "Blood
Diamond," he met a little girl from an orphanage. Played with her, talked with
her, became fascinated by her. He's now "adopted" her, and parenting will
continue by phone.

More trends. Kate Winslet, enlisting in the war on anorexia, is joining those
who are anti today's skinny-thinny ninnies. No more fashion magazines in her
house. She does not want 6-year-old Mia's concept of beauty formed by skeletal
models. Perfection does not mean thinner and thinner bodies, she says. "It
frightens me and will frighten her," she says. So, in future, Chez Kate may
yield National Geographic but Harper's Bazaar - not.

BARRY Manilow, after albums from the '50s and '60s, is asking friends to "choose
13 songs you'd like to include on my next CD, 'The Greatest Songs of the '70s.'
" His list of 175 No. 1 songs from the '70s includes my pick: "Breakin' Up Is
Hard to Do," "Leaving on a Jet Plane," (but Barry, these last two are from the
'60s) "Bridge Over Troubled Water," "Feel Like Makin' Love," "It's Impossible,"
"Just the Way You Are," "My Eyes Adored You," "Love Will Keep Us Together,"
"Rainy Days and Mondays," "The Way We Were," "Tie a Yellow Ribbon," "We've Only
Just Begun" and "You Light up My Life."

ST. MARTIN'S publishing Charlotte Hays' "The Fortune Hunters: The Dazzling
Marriages of Our Day." I'm in it throughout - not for a dazzling marriage, but
for reporting other people's . . . Jordan's Queen Noor vacuumed up 25 Philip
Stein Teslar watches for holiday gifts . . . Dr. Peter Theodorou advising Uma
Thurman on what she thinks are crooked bottom teeth. Like anybody ever looks at
Uma Thurman's bottom teeth, right? . . . The Humane Society of New York took
over The Cutting Room. Chris Noth fed and entertained wall-to-wall pooches . . .
56th between First and Second got closed for Sigourney Weaver's "The Girl in the
Park." They filmed in an upstairs apartment . . . Lois Robbins (Dr. Anna Tolan
in "All My Children") to star in the B'way-bound musical "A Time for Love"
directed by Richard Maltby Jr., who wrote that "Miss Potter" screenplay.

ANYONE aware the nation's premier science magazine Scientific American just
listed 50 Americans whom an editorial board deemed our top in terms of research,
business and policy achievement? It includes Warren Buffett, who gave away 85
percent of his wealth for the war on poverty; Paul Allen, whose $100 million
established an Institute for Brain Science, and - ta-da! - Al Gore for being
"the foremost advocate of the dangers of climate change."

And, nonscientifically speaking, to quote someone, whom I don't remember, who
told this to me in some place I also can't remember: "I somehow have the feeling
Al Gore would accept a draft."

BUS DRIVER on Seventh Avenue, the No. 20 route, boarded a foreigner with a wife
and two small children. Unaware he needed exact change, the man had only dollar
bills. The driver let them remain and put them off where they wanted go.

Only in good-hearted New York, kids, only in good-hearted New York.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WILL FERRELL Not doing the "Elf" thing again. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 26, 2007 Monday

GORE SCORES 'TRUTH' AWARD

BYLINE: IAN BISHOP

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 237 words


Former Vice President Al Gore snatched the Oscar for Best Documentary for his
film "An Inconvenient Truth," and told his cheering audience that global warming
is "a moral issue."

"My fellow Americans, people all over the world, we need to solve the climate
crisis," he said in his very brief acceptance speech.

"It's not a political issue, it's a moral issue. We have everything we need to
get started, with the possible exception of the will to act." That, he said, is
a "renewable resource."

Earlier in the evening, he provided one of the funniest moments of the show.

In an uproarious spoof, Oscar gave him the hook before he could make a "major"
political announcement.

His fellow award presenter, Leonardo DiCaprio, repeatedly asked Gore if he had
any "major" announcements to make - the crowd clapping amid the presidential
overtones.

"I'm just here for the movies, Leo," Gore insisted, before finally relenting to
DiCaprio's numerous pleadings.

"Even though I honestly had not planned on doing this, I guess with a billion
people watching, it's as good a time as any," Gore said as he pulled a piece of
paper from his pocket.

"My fellow Americans," Gore said as he unfolded the paper. "I'm going to take
this opportunity right here and now to formally announce my intentions . . ."

But then the Oscar theme music, played when winners drone on too long in their
victory speeches, drowned out the former veep.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AL GORE "A moral issue."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday

IRANIANS SINK TO A NEW LOW - DEMAND BRITS CONFESS'

BYLINE: ANDY SOLTIS

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 927 words


Iran declared yesterday that the only way Britain can get back its 15 hostage
sailors is if it admits they trespassed into Iranian waters.

Tehran's ultimatum came only hours after it paraded the 15 captives before TV
cameras and aired an interview with the sole woman hostage, who was apparently
coerced to say, "Obviously, we trespassed into their waters."

Britain angrily denounced the broadcast as "completely unacceptable" and a
violation of international law - and expressed concern that tense-looking Faye
Turney was forced into the confession in which she praised her "compassionate"
captors.

The developments came on the fifth day of the escalating crisis as Britain froze
its contacts with Iran and unveiled satellite data it said proved the sailors
were nearly two miles away from Iranian waters when they were seized.

Iran responded by suggesting - for the first time publicly - a way to end the
standoff. But it was one Britain is almost certain to reject.

Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said Britain had to admit the "mistake" of
entering Iranian waters.

"Admitting the mistake will facilitate a solution to the problem," he said in
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where he was attending a summit of Arab leaders. He also
withdrew a pledge he made hours earlier that Turney would be freed today or
tomorrow.

Before issuing the ultimatum, Iran broadcast the video from Tehran that showed
Turney, clad in a white tunic and a black head scarf, being interviewed about
her "arrest" last Friday

"They were very friendly and very hospitable, very thoughtful, nice people. They
explained to us why we've been arrested. There was no harm, no aggression."

Turney, 26, was also shown eating with several fellow sailors and marines.

The Iranians revealed what appeared to be Turney's handwritten note to her
parents in which she sent her love to them, her husband and her 3-year-old
daughter, Molly. She also said she had written an apology "to the Iranian
people." Her family released a statement saying they were "grateful for support"
they were receiving in this "very distressing time."

Before the video was aired, a spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair said any
showing of British personnel on TV would be a breach of the Geneva Conventions
on treatment of prisoners of war. The Foreign Office said it had "grave
concerns" about Turney's state of mind when she spoke on video.

Turney appeared anxious and seemed to be making a forced smile that revealed her
extreme stress, body-language experts said.

"Her speech was very slow and monotonous. She has furrowed eyebrows and her eyes
were downcast to the right," said analyst Robert Phipps.

Turney's appearance - smoking a cigarette while dressed in a headscarf - would
seem bizarre to a Muslim audience and may have been designed by Iranians to
discredit her in the eyes of conservative viewers who frown upon women smoking.

British Foreign Minister Margaret Beckett condemned the release of Turney's
letter. "I am particularly disappointed that a private letter has been used in a
way which can only add to the distress of the families," she said. "

Vice Adm. Charles Style said the sailors were "ambushed" in Persian Gulf waters
while on a routine anti-smuggling patrol.

The British military offered proof - global positioning system coordinates that
showed the two vessels were 1.7 nautical miles inside Iraqi waters when they
were seized at gunpoint.

Style told reporters that, on Sunday, the Iranians had provided a different
position for the incident - but even that location was within Iraqi waters.

Yesterday, Iran revised that position, putting it two miles east, inside a
waterway that Iran claims. But Style said that was refuted by the GPS readings.

With The Times of London and Post Wire Services

---

MAP GRAPHIC

Britain released this map yesterday based on global positioning satellite
readings taken by soldiers - and proving Iran wrongly captured its sailors.

X spot: Where Cornwall sailors in a patrol boat (left) boarded a
merchant-shipping vessel for routine inspection.

Point 1: The two vessels drifted out to sea here, where Iran claimed that the
sailors were seized.

Point 2: Britain revealed that Point 1 was in Iraqi waters - so Iran backtracked
and claimed yesterday the seizure occurred here.

Bull's eye: Where HMS Cornwall was at the time of the incident.

* Iraqi territorial waters I

* Kuwait territorial waters

* Iran territorial waters

* International waters

* Iraq/Kuwait territorial waters boundary

* Iraq/Iran territorial waters boundary

Sources: British Defense Ministry; ESRI; AP

====

Dear Mum & Dad,

I am writing to you from Iran where I am being held. I will try to explain to
you the best what has happened. We were out in the boats when we were arrested
by Iranian forces as we had apparently gone into Iranian waters. I wish we
hadn't because then I'd be home with you all right now. I am so sorry we did,
because I know we wouldn't be here now if we hadn't. I want you all to know that
I am well and safe. I am being well looked after. I am fed three meals a day and
have a constant supply of fluids.

The people are friendly and hospitable, very compassionate and warm. I have
written a letter to the Iranian people to apologize for us entering into their
waters. Please don't worry about me, I am staying strong. Hopefully it won't be
long until I am home to get ready for Molly's birthday party with a present from
the Iranian people.

Look after everyone for me, especially Adam and Molly.

I love you all more than you will ever know.

All my love, Faye

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Faye Turney, one of the 15 captives, is paraded before Iran TV cameras
yesterday. She wrote this letter under duress to her family, referring to hubby
Adam and baby Molly.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday

FED'S LIQUIDITY HELPING FLOOD OIL PRICE MARKET

BYLINE: PAUL THARP

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 242 words


Massive hedge fund speculation is getting blamed for pushing oil to a new high
above $88 a barrel - triggering a chorus of alarms ringing from the White House
to Saudi oil sheiks.

Crude roared to an intraday trading high of $88.20 a barrel yesterday amid fears
that Turkey might cross borders to invade Kurdish rebel strongholds in Iraq over
old historical disputes, disrupting the already fragile oil-field output there.

Heating oil also soared to a 30-year high, sharply raising the price for keeping
homes and buildings warm this winter in New York and the Northeast.

By the end of yesterday, crude settled here at $87.61, up $1.48.

Wholesale gasoline rose 1.62 cents a gallon to $2.1737. Heating oil jumped 3.15
cents a gallon to $2.3387 a gallon.

Natural gas for November fell 7.8 cents to settle at $7.367 per 1,000 cubic
feet.

Analysts said that the high crude price wasn't supported by fundamentals and
that speculators were unrealistically driving up the market - using new cash
flows released by the Federal Reserve to support banking's liquidity crisis.

"We suspect massive long-side commitment by sidelined money has had more to do
with it," said Edward Meir of MF Global, adding that the bets are being made
with the new liquidity.

Some analysts fear that oil could begin a march toward $100 a barrel.

"It still doesn't act like a market that has placed a high," said Jim
Ritterbusch, president of Ritterbusch & Associates.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

GOD AND KIDS AT DEVIL S LAKE - NO VOLLEYBALL AT 'JESUS CAMP'

BYLINE: Linda Stasi

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 83

LENGTH: 445 words


"Jesus Camp"

Sunday night at 10 on A&E

(three and a half stars)

IMAGINE a place where children paint their faces in camouflage and play warriors
for God.

A place where "Harry Potter" is condemned as anti-God warlock worship, and where
children lay hands on a cardboard cut-out of the leader of their country to make
a spititual connection. A place where children are whipped into a religious
frenzy nightly until they are in tears and speaking in tongues. Taliban training
camp deep in the mountains of Afghanistan?Close.

Try the "Kids on Fire" Christian summer camp at (I swear!) Devil's Lake, North
Dakota, run by Pentecostal minister Becky Fischer. Yes, folks, this is a camp
where Americans send their children for immersion in evangelical Christianity.

And it's all there in the television debut of A&E's indie film, "Jesus Camp,"
made by Rachel Grady and Heidi Ewing and nominated for an Oscar after it
screened last year at Sundance.

The film concentrates on three kids - 12-year-old Levi, 9-year-old Rachel and
10-year-old Tory - all of whom are genuinely taken by the spirit and love they
feel for Jesus Christ.

All seem to be homeschooled and smarter - or at least more well-versed than your
average pre-pubescent kid - on the subjects near and dear to their hearts.

Those subjects include abortion, prayer in schools and what they believe are the
myths of global warming and evolution.

They believe Jesus sent George W. Bush to save the country and that this camp
will help them become warriors against the Muslims, who Becky says are training
their children the same way.

The very persuasive and charming Pastor Becky can be funny, warm, sincere - and
very scary.

How she allowed herself to be filmed saying some of the things she says to
children and - worse - about children is shocking.

"They're so usable," she says.

And "I can go into a playground of kids that don't know anything about
Christianity and lead them to the Word in no time at all."

(Really? I tell you what, if I caught some middle-aged lady preaching to kids in
the playground, I'd call the cops.)

While the filmmakers obviously have a point of view, it isn't what you might
expect. It's not anti-Christian. But it is definitely anti-fanatic.

Handing kids plastic fetuses to pass around and praying at a big cardboard
cut-out of the president so that he may smite the abortion advocates isn't
exactly the kind of fun summer camp activities some consider healthy.

Me? I lean more toward lanyards, volleyball and ghost stories.

Oh, yes, when the kids are caught telling ghost stories they are told to stop.
Ghosts aren't real.

But having visions and speaking in tongues is.

Don't miss it.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At a camp in North Dakota, kids lay hands on a cardboard George Bush
cutout.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday

IT AIN'T EASY BEING GREENBACK WHILE EURO TAKES OFF

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 533 words


THE "almighty" dollar.

You've heard it called that, usually when there is grousing at someone's focus
on making money at any cost. Well, it's possible the dollar - the currency of
choice for world investors - may not be all that mighty for much longer.

The euro is barely 4 years old and it's giving the dollar a run for its money.
And if economic forecasts come true for 2007, this could be a very tough year
for the American currency.

Some of us worried about the dollar losing its supremacy when the euro became
legal tender in 2002. But the competition between the two currencies began in
earnest last year.

The dollar fell 10 percent in value compared with the euro during 2006. Nowadays
you'd have to cough up roughly $1.32 for each euro, an exchange rate that makes
traveling to countries such as Germany, France or Italy particularly expensive.
The problem is simple.

The U.S. economy is weakening at a time when business conditions in Europe seem
to be improving. And under conventional scenarios that means the U.S. Federal
Reserve will need to cut interest rates before long, while borrowing costs in
the euro region will be rising.

All things being equal, higher interest rates make a currency more attractive to
investors.

So, rising rates in Europe will attract foreign capital that might otherwise
have gone into the U.S. and its currency. Several things could happen to change
the conventional outcomes.

For one thing, the Fed might decline to cut interest rates. It won't blame the
weakening dollar for any foot-dragging on rates; it'll probably complain about
inflation (as it did yesterday).

Washington will also have to spend tremendous amounts to prop up our currency,
although that sort of effort is usually futile.

A more likely scenario is the U.S. Central Bank simply saying it is keeping an
eye on inflation. But anyone with common sense and some perspective will know
that the dollar's health is the real issue.

Any kind of added uncertainty in the world could also entice foreigners to keep
their investments in the U.S.

The lesser return on their investments is essentially an insurance premium
investors are willing to pay for keeping their assets in a safe haven.

The trouble is that Europe is looking pretty safe nowadays. And if the U.S.
dollar continues to weaken, foreign investors will worry about currency losses
when they repatriate their capital.

The dollar managed its biggest rally in months yesterday on a report that
manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in December. If nothing else, that shows that
investors want to believe in the long-term viability of the greenback.

But tomorrow will be a test for the dollar.

That's when Washington will report the number of new jobs created in December.
The guessing is that a modest 115,000 new positions appeared during the holiday
season, but there's one prediction that the labor market shrank.

If job growth comes in weaker than expected there will be intensified calls for
lower interest rates that will put increasing pressure on the dollar.

Stronger growth in jobs will bring less lobbying for lower borrowing costs and a
rebound in the dollar.

---

Bruised

Cost of euro in $: Close: $1.32

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

GAS TO EXPLODE - SEASONAL SWITCH BRINGS BIG PROFIT$

BYLINE: PAUL THARP

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 421 words


Just six days remain before our annual gas pump-gouging season officially opens
- this time pushing gasoline prices up sharply toward the $3-a-gallon mark.

Even as New York thaws, the nation's gas stations are preparing to switch their
pumps on March 1 to a more expensive summer blend of gasoline, which is sold
year-round in warm climates such as Florida and Southern California.

But in the New York area, the switch means a revenue windfall for refiners like
Exxon Mobil, which recently posted the world's biggest profits for the second
year in a row.

Gasoline's rite of spring also gives Wall Street traders their most dependable
and predictable profit rallies of the year, often in the double digits, analysts
say.

Wholesale unleaded regular shot up 2.9 percent here yesterday for its highest
gain in six months, gaining 5.01 cents a gallon to $1.7548.

Analysts say the nickel gain will show up probably overnight at the retail
level. Traders are also betting by 2 to 1 that wholesale prices will keep
rising.

Regular at gas pumps was selling yesterday on Manhattan's West Side for about
$2.48 a gallon, and at about $2.13 at stations near the New Jersey entrances of
the Holland and Lincoln tunnels.

Analysts see the pump prices jumping as much as 45 cents a gallon by early
spring. That's excluding any disruptions by weather or refinery accidents, or
new geopolitical unrest in Nigeria, Venezuela or the Middle East.

"Basically it's, 'Here we go again,' " said energy analyst Peter Beutel of
Cameron Hanover.

He said many traders use a simple strategy based on the summer switch: Buy
contracts on March 1, and sell half by May 1 and the other half by May 15.

"It's consistently yielded profits for 19 of the last 22 years," said Beutel,
author of the authoritative text "Surviving Energy Prices."

The strategy last year produced a 39 percent trading profit on gasoline. And
over two decades it paid an average $77,107 per contract, according to trading
and government data in the book.

"Every year, our biggest fear is that too many people know about this trade for
it to keep working," Beutel mused.

Each spring, refiners add chemicals to gasoline to slow down its usually fast
evaporation, in essence saving fuel that otherwise would wind up as a vaporous
haze in summer traffic. "It's like the dash of Vermouth in the martini," he
said.

Meanwhile, a government report yesterday said that gasoline inventories of
continued to decline by 5.04 million barrels ahead of new inventories of summer
blends.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Casino pricing: Thursday marks the day the pumps will be going to
summer-grade gasoline - and back toward the $3 a gallon level. [Post photo
composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

GORE THE GUZZLER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 533 words


How big is Al Gore's carbon footprint?

Pretty hefty.

Gore grabbed an Oscar Sunday night for his global-warming horror flick, "An
Inconvenient Truth" - and took the opportunity to lecture America about its duty
to Go Green and stay there.

Now a Tennessee think tank has revealed an inconvenient truth of its own - about
what Gore actually practices, as opposed to what he endlessly preaches.

The Tennessee Center for Policy Research, using public records, calculated the
Gores' energy use for the past two years at their new 20-room,
10,000-square-foot home in suburban Nashville.

In all, the main house and the pool house used an average 18,414 kilowatt-hours
(KWH) of power a month last year; that's 14 percent more the 16,200 monthly KWH
they devoured in 2005.

Thus does the carbon footprint - the amount of greenhouse gas generated to keep
Gore in kilowatts - grow.

But just how much juice is that?

Well, average national household use is 10,656 KWH. For an entire year, that is.

Al and Tipper beat that monthly.

For perspective, the average residential customer in New York City skimped by on
just 300 KWH a month, or 3,600 a year - less than 2 percent of Gore's use.

OK, so that's mostly for apartments.

Up in Westchester, where most customers own comfortably large homes, the average
monthly usage is 450 KWH, or 5,400 KWH a year - still under 3 percent of what
the Gores consume.

As for cost, the average New York City residential energy bill last month was
$62.88 before taxes, according to Con Edison; in Westchester, it was $81.80.

What about the Gores?

They paid $1,359 a month for electricity - or about $16,000 per year.

No doubt one could raise a family on that in Tennessee - though not in a home
quite as large as Gore's.

And just how big is that palace, comparatively speaking?

Take your typical 800-square-foot, one-bedroom Manhattan pad: You could fit
121/2 of them inside the Gores' abode.

A spokeswoman for Gore didn't dispute the figures, but insisted the former
Second Family purchases enough energy from renewable sources to offset their
sizable carbon footprint.

No doubt.

But that's just another way of saying that the rich truly are different.

Gore, a Kyoto Protocol advocate, has enough socked away so he won't miss a meal
should that treaty ever be adopted - and wreck the U.S. economy.

It was the fear of such damage, recall, that led the U.S. Senate - Veep Al Gore
presiding - to reject Kyoto 95-0.

What a hypocrite he is.

And he's not alone.

As The Los Angeles Times reported this week, two of California's greenest pols -
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sen. Dianne Feinstein - continue to flit around
on their private Gulfstream jets.

A single cross-country flight on such an aircraft emits up to 90,000 pounds of
carbon dioxide - nearly double the amount the average American produces from all
activities in an entire year.

Meanwhile, Laurie David, producer of that Gore documentary, also uses private
Gulfstreams - though she rebukes those driving SUVs. (She now says she's cutting
back on her private jet usage - but gradually, like a smoker trying to quit.)

And so it goes.

Gore always was tiresome.

Obviously nothing has changed.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday

MICHIGAN - THE GREAT LAKES STATE

BYLINE: JASMIN K. WILLIAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 770 words


Michigan became our 26th state on Jan. 26, 1837. It covers 56,809 square miles
and the capital is Lansing.

MICHIGAN is named for Lake Michigan, one of the five Great Lakes. The state has
a unique geography. The Great Lakes create two peninsulas, upper and lower. A
peninsula is a section of land that is almost completely surrounded by water.
(Florida is also a peninsula.)

The Great Lakes are the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth. They include
Lakes Huron, Michigan, Erie, Superior and Ontario. Michigan's two peninsulas are
surrounded by all but Lake Ontario.

All together, Michigan has 38,575 square miles of water from the Great Lakes and
1,305 square miles of inland water. It's no wonder that Michigan has more
recreational boats than anywhere else in the country.

Before the first Europeans arrived, the territory was home to the Algonquin,
Ottawa and Chippewa natives.

French explorers came in 1641. Father Jacques Marquette established Sault
Sainte-Marie in 1668. It remains the oldest city in both Michigan and in
Ontario, Canada, as it was divided into two cities in 1818 after the U.S.-Canada
boundary was established.

Britain seized control of Detroit and the surrounding area during the War of
1812. Two years later, the Treaty of Ghent deemed that all land control would
revert to the way it was before the war started, meaning that Michigan would
remain American.

The region remained largely unsettled until the Erie Canal was completed in
1825. Settlers poured into the area, giving Michigan 80,000 residents - enough
to apply for statehood.

A boundary dispute erupted with Ohio over a 438-squaremile strip of land that
divided the states. Not a single shot was fired during the Toledo War, but it
slowed the process of Michigan's statehood. Congress settled the matter and
awarded the land called the Toledo Strip to Ohio, and the Upper Peninsula to
Michigan, which finally became a state on Jan. 26, 1837.

Michigan officials thought they got the short end of the deal, as the Upper
Peninsula was considered all but useless. It soon became an area of interest,
however, when William Aston Burt and Douglass Houghton discovered that the area
was rich with lumber, iron and copper, which are still important resources
today. The Upper Peninsula is heavily forested and is home to the Porcupine
Mountains, which are the oldest in North America.

Michigan's economic clout snowballed at the turn of the century as the country
ushered in the Automotive Age. The state would become the center of the new
industry, which would permanently change the socioeconomic climate of the
nation.

Henry Ford built his first plant in the Highland Park section of Detroit. For
its place in automotive history, the city is nicknamed the Motor City.

In 1906, Battle Creek, Mich., became the breakfast-cereal capital of the world,
thanks to brothers John Harvey and Will Keith Kellogg, who created Corn Flakes
and Rice Krispies, among other favorites.

In 1920, Detroit's WWJ radio station became the first in the country to
broadcast regular programs. Forty years later, Detroit became the birthplace of
the famous Motown sound. Michael Jackson and his brothers, known as The Jackson
Five, Stevie Wonder, Marvin Gaye and the Supremes all became famous after
recording with the Motown label.

The auto industry is still a big part of the state's economy, but today, it is
joined by information technology and life sciences.

What a place to go if you love nature. There are the Great Lakes, old-growth
forests and mountains, among the many beautiful things to see.

Michigan has a few nicknames, which include the Wolverine State, the Great Lakes
State, Mitten State (the Lower Peninsula resembles one) and Winter Wonderland.

Famous natives include President Gerald R. Ford, entertainer Stevie Wonder,
basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson and boxing great Joe Louis.

Fun Facts:

State flower: Apple blossom

State wildflower: Dwarf Lake Iris (an endangered species)

State soil: Kalkaska sand

State animal: Wolverine

Today's lesson fulfills the following standards: ELA 1c, 3c, 3d, 5a Social
Studies Standards 1 and 3

For more information about the Classroom Extra program, contact Customer Service
at 1-212-801-0100. Today's lesson can be found at nypost.com. Click on the
"More" pull down menu.

---

New York Post activites

* USE the Internet or other reference source to learn more about Michigan.

* USE a map or globe to locate Michigan. Check out the two peninsulas and the
Great Lakes.

* READ about Detroit and its rich autoindustry and music history.

Newspapers in the Classroom Sponsored by the NEW YORK LOTTERY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 9, 2007 Monday

THE GRADUATES - COLLEGE SENIORS ARE IN HIGH DEMAND - AND EMPLOYERS ARE PULLING
OUT THE STOPS TO ATTRACT THEM; GRADS IN A HIRE CLASS - IN A BOOMING MARKET,
COLLEGE SENIORS AREN'T LOOKING FOR JOBS AS MUCH AS JOBS ARE LOOKING FOR THEM

BYLINE: MICHAEL KANE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1528 words


GRADUATING from college is not what it used to be. The cap-and-gowners of the
Class of '07 could very well be getting job offers right in the middle of
commencement ceremonies - through text messages on their cellphones.

With an improved economy and vast numbers of baby boomers headed toward
retirement, this year's graduating seniors are fi nding themselves hot
commodities, in sharp contrast to their Gen-X forbears.

"Our students are receiving job offers earlier and getting more choices," said
Paula Lee, director of NYU's Wasserman Center for Career Development. "Instead
of one or two offers, it's four or fi ve. Finance, education, health care -
they're all really hot."

It's easy math: Compared to the estimated 85 million baby boomers born in the
late 1940s, there were only about 50 million Generation Xers born decades later.
Which means between now and the end of the decade, as those boomers retire,
millions of positions will need fi lling.

"I really wasn't all that worried about fi nding work - there are plenty of jobs
out there," says Artem Agafonov, a fi lm-studies major at NYU who graduated last
spring and quickly found work editing documentaries. "You'd have to be
computer-illiterate to stay unemployed for long"

Such confidence is widespread: Nine out of 10 graduates expect to get at least
one offer by graduation, and three-quarters expect to get two or more, according
to a new survey by MonsterTRAK, the student division of the career site
Monster.com. Seventysix percent of firms surveyed plan to hire from the Class of
'07, and more than a third planned to hire more grads than they did last year.

The result of the current climate is that top students don't go looking for jobs
- the jobs come looking for them. And what's truly revolutionary is that to land
the best and brightest, corporate recruiters are reaching out to Generation Y -
or the "millennials," as some call them - in the very places where they live:
through text messages, chat rooms and on social Web sites such as MySpace and
Facebook.

GENERATION X-TRA

Travelers Insurance has led the way in sending text messages to graduating
students.

"When you're 20 or 21, you've probably gone to Web sites to sign up for a free
ringtone from 50 Cent, or a wallpaper download for your cellphone," says Steve
Rothberg, founder of the job site CollegeRecruiter.com. "That stuff's not really
free, though - it puts you on marketing lists."

Travelers used those lists to send out a short text to graduating business
students located near their corporate headquarters in Hartford, Conn., that read
"Travelers now hiring finance & accounting majors," and included their Web site
address.

With Internet-enabled cellphones or BlackBerrys, those student could
theoretically click on the site, link to the resume page and apply for a job on
the spot.

"More than the medium, it's the message," says Terry Bacon, a workplace
consultant who's done research on how to attract and retain millennials. "This
generation of kids think they're special, so they respond when you treat them
like they're special."

With that in mind, Consolidated Graphics in Houston, the largest commercial
printer in North America, uses targeted marketing to send students personalized
greetings. Let's say they target a student named Sebastian. First, Sebastian
gets an e-mail steering him to his own personal URL at the "on campus" division
of the corporate Web site.

There, Sebastian can feel right at home in his own pre-reserved "workspace,"
where he's greeted with still more personal information about how he'd fit right
in with the company - all presented against a backdrop that's either red for
female recruits or navy blue for guys. Each personalized URL even features a
prominent photo of an attractive employee smiling and busy at work (female
recruits get a goodlooking guy, and vice versa).

In effect, Consolidated Graphics has pulled out a chair for Sebastian, decorated
his cubicle for him and hung a photo of the hot chick he'll be hitting on at the
corporate Christmas party.

"With a personalized Web page, we're giving this generation a couple of things
they've grown used to - quick access to information and the feeling that they're
very important to us," says Consolidated Graphics' national recruiting manager,
Rachel Seff Koenig, who recently gave a seminar to humanresource managers called
"Capturing College Talent: Creative Strategies for a Competitive Market."

"You've got to remember," she says, "this generation is kind of pampered.
They're a little bit wussy. These are the children of Soccer Mom Nation, and
they're used to having every aspect of their life arranged for them."

Other companies are trying to sweeten the pot with various perks - the
financialconsulting company KPMG, for example offers international exchange
programs for new hires. Three hundred new employees will have their September
training week in Madrid, while 25 interns will spend the summer in various
European countries.

Other firms better their odds of success by sharpening their search. First, they
use traditional means to get information about students, such as on-campus
career fairs and database systems such as NYU's CareerNet or the national
NACElink, which connects students and employers. Then by whittling the search
with criteria such as GPA, academic major and place of residence, they can
bypass casting a wide net in favor of casting smaller nets right on top of the
fish.

THANKS FOR THE ADD

When Generation X graduated from college 15 or 20 years ago, jobs were scarce.
Most either went straight to grad school or backpacked around Europe for a few
months, and then went back to grad school. Times change. But one thing Gen Y
graduates have learned from their predecessors is a low level of gullibility.
Young people just aren't buying the corporate bill of goods anymore.

"When I talk to recent graduates, the most important and appreciated trait by an
employer is transparency." says Rothberg, whose Web site is an online recruiting
giant.

Bad business in 2007 means being ripped on sites such as Vault.com and on
uncountable blogs that expose undesirable workplace environments and corporate
double-talk. Anyone thinking of working for Wal-Mart? It takes about seven
seconds to search and call up the site walmartsucks.org. Considering filling out
a resume at Starbucks? You might want to check ihatestarbucks.com first.

"This isn't 1975," says Rothberg. "So employers are sticking their heads in the
sand if they think the only information published about their company is in
their brochures or the occasional media mention. They need to wake up to the
realities of blogs."

In response, more companies are adopting the transparency approach of
self-effacing trendsetters such as Southwest Airlines or JetBlue and their "no
con job" attitude. Google tells you right up front you'll work long hours, but
they buy you lunch and, in the Bay Area, they'll give you a free shuttle-bus
commute. Microsoft and Honeywell even let employees blog during work hours (see
related story).

Other companies are playing the transparency game with profiles on MySpace and
Facebook.

"Look at what Ernst & Young is doing," says Rothberg. "They have a soupedup
profile page on Facebook with a slide show and corporate information, but it's
all very soft sell. What that says to a student is Ernst & Young wants to
understand me, and now they're here and part of my world."

Even the U.S. Marine Corps, which recruits college graduates in hopes of
steering them into officer training, has a MySpace page, which even allows
visitors to post comments.

MySpace, in particular, is an effective recruiting tool in that it's a viral and
everexpanding link that by its own nature gives companies access to potential
hires.

The national health-care staffing firm MaxHealth has a dozen or so employees
listed on their MySpace page as "friends." Consequently, anyone who's a friend
of the friend is on their radar.

"The smartest thing companies could do is to go to their newest employees,
especially the recent college grads, and ask them to link from their MySpace
pages to the company's page," says Rothberg. "Because now you can turn around
and follow that the other way."

TWO-WAY STREET

Students at NYU's Wasserman Center for Career Development told @work they love
the idea of companies pursuing them, even if it is a little too Big Brother for
comfort.

"I'd love to get job offers on my cellphone," says Bryan Gaynor, a sophomore
perusing a wall at the job-placement center. Filled with thumb-tacked fliers
advertising jobs teaching English or tutoring math, the wall borders on
anachronistic.

"If you're on MySpace, you're there to be noticed anyway," Gaynor says.

Seff Koenig cautions students that the free exchange of information is a two-way
street. Just as it's easy for companies to find information on students and
offer them jobs, when those recruits show up for an in-person interview, they
better have read up on the company - no matter how much the supply-anddemand
equation adds up in their favor.

"If they haven't bothered learning about us," she says, "I write them off right
there."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -TUNE IN, SIGN UP: NYU seniors Sanghee Rhee and Ting Wu investigate
their options at the university's career center. [Thomas Hinton]  -CAP OFF:Why's
this grad grinning? He's got four offers. [Taxi/Getty Images] -Graduate. [Liz
Sullivan]  -TUNE IN, SIGN UP: NYU seniors Sanghee Rhee and Ting Wu investigate
their options at the university's career center. [Thomas Hinton]  -CAP OFF:Why's
this grad grinning? He's got four offers. [Taxi/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

TRY NOT TO AVOID THIS 'ICEBERG'

BYLINE: V.A. Musetto

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 188 words


L'ICEBERG [***]  (Three stars)

THE oddball Belgian comedy "L'Iceberg" is a cool way to take your mind off
climate change.

Fiona (Fiona Gordon), the manager of a fast-food eatery, accidentally gets
locked overnight in the walk-in freezer. Her husband and two kids go on about
their lives, not the least bit interested in why she didn't return to their
cookie-cutter suburban house.

Fiona survives, but she's a different person. She's suddenly obsessed with cold
things. One day she leaves home, intent on seeing an iceberg, and hooks up with
a deaf sailor on the way.

"L'Iceberg" was directed by three of its actors, Gordon, Dominique Abel and
Bruno Romy. They keep dialogue to a minimum and slapstick comedy (think Jacques
Tati mixed with Buster Keaton) to a maximum.

Gordon and Abel (who delivers one of the longest yawns in screen history) are
howls as husband and wife. Their long, lean buddies seem custom-made for
slapstick humor. Keaton would approve.

In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 84 minutes. Not rated
(inoffensive nudity). At the Cinema Village, 12th Street, east of Fifth Avenue.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fiona Gordon is one of three actors who also directed "L'Iceberg," a
Belgian slapstick comedy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday

$11M GIFT OF GAB; SPEAKER RUDY RAKED IN MORE THAN BILL

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN and CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 370 words


Republican 2008 hopeful Rudy Giuliani snared more than $11 million for his paid
speeches last year -  an eye-popping figure that outpaced former President Bill
Clinton's earnings, The Post has learned.

Giuliani's $11.4 million haul will be listed on the personal
financial-disclosure forms he'll file next week, according to sources.

By contrast, Clinton -  another in-demand speaker -  earned close to $10 million
for speeches last year, a figure that will be on the disclosure forms for his
wife, Democratic front-runner Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, the sources said.

The former mayor's $100,000-a- pop speech earnings are on top of what he's made
from his company, Giuliani Partners.

He made roughly 125 paid speeches, sources said, putting him in the top ranks of
sought-after speakers around the globe and taking him to more than 30 countries,
including Qatar, Dubai, Iceland and Latvia.

In addition to the two dozen speaking engagements Giuliani had with the "Get
Motivated" seminars, companies that paid him included Shell Oil Products, the
Sir Ratan Tata Trust in India, the Bowling Proprietors Association of America,
and the Armed Forces Communication and Electronics Association.

Clinton, who earns between $150,000 and $300,000 per speech, gave roughly 60
paid talks last year.

Sources said that more than 80 percent of his lecture-circuit stops were pro
bono, or in exchange for donations to the poverty- and disease-fighting William
J. Clinton Foundation.

Giuliani sources said the ex-mayor gave dozens of free speeches to political
groups, as well as charities. He also donated about $80,000 to various charities
in Hurricane Katrina-ravaged Louisiana after he gave a PGA-sponsored speech
there.

Giuliani spokeswoman Katie Levinson said, "his speaking engagements have given
him extraordinary opportunities to meet world leaders, hear the concerns of
people from all walks of life, and help inform how he sees the world."

Clinton spokesman Jay Carson said that while his boss "enjoys speaking to
groups, he puts the vast majority of his energy and time into charitable
activities including those of [his foundation], which provides AIDS treatment
and combats climate change and childhood obesity."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUDY GIULIANI In demand worldwide.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 28, 2007 Monday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE: Dan Kadison, Wire Services

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 329 words


Watch out, Jaws.

Humans pose a real threat to sharks - killing 26 million to 73 million each
year, according to The Washington Post.

Meanwhile, sharks kill only about four people annually.

"For most of human history, sharks have been seen as a threat to us," said David
Balton, the U.S.

deputy assistant secretary of state for oceans and fisheries. "Only recently are
we beginning to see we're a threat to them."

*

A man who was a little slow in picking up his fast food has been charged with
drunken driving.

Police found Terrance Forte, 32, asleep behind the wheel in the drivethrough
lane at a McDonald's in Camden, Ark. Restaurant employees called cops after
waiting 15 minutes for Forte to drive from the first window to the second.

Police found Forte asleep inside the car with the engine running and his right
foot on the brake. His blood-alcohol level was allegedly more than twice the
legal limit.

*

A lawyer is ready to take the plunge and become a human ice cube in the name of
global warming.

On July 15, Lewis Gordon Pugh will attempt a halfmile swim at the North Pole in
29 degree waters. If he succeeds, he will be the first person to swim at the
Pole.

"I can't think of a better way to show that climate change is a reality than by
swimming in a place that should be totally frozen over," the Brit said.

*

One hundred people will board a replica of a Viking ship this summer to sail
from Denmark to Ireland.

The 100-foot-long Sea Stallion of Glendalough will leave from eastern Denmark on
July 1, and spend seven weeks traveling 1,200 miles to Dublin.

"We have radios and life jackets," said one crewmember. "They [the Vikings] must
have been hardier people."

*

A French soccer team got carried away over the weekend - throwing the city's
mayor into a bath while celebrating a major win and accidentally breaking his
ankle.

"I'll be in plaster for three weeks," Jean-Luc Moudenc said.

Since he's the mayor of Toulouse, we guess it won't be plaster of Paris.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday

THE SEARCH FOR TRUTH ABOUT THE 9/11 PLUME

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 996 words


Chief Medical Examiner Charles Hirsch this month officially tied the 2002 death
of a bystander, Felicia Dunn-Jones, to Ground Zero dust - and thereby heightened
fears  over the health fallout from the 9/11 attack.

Yes, the ruling provided relief to folks like Dunn-Jones' husband. He had
lobbied hard for the designation, and saw it as justice being served.

Others, like Mayor Bloomberg, understandably are concerned that such linkage
might unfairly tilt lawsuits filed against City Hall by rescue workers who seek
compensation for injuries both real and, sometimes, exaggerated. Ultimately,
such cases could cost the city a fortune.

Mayor Mike last week rightly noted one important distinction - between ill
workers and folks injured on 9/11 as a direct result of the attacks.

Meanwhile, because Dunn-Jones was exposed to the plume only briefly as she fled
the area, the M.E.'s ruling is sparking fears that countless others who breathed
the air that day also may have been harmed - and may not even know it.

The question of 9/11's impact on public health is far too important to be
decided on the basis of fears, well-meaning sympathy for those who become ill or
the financial ramifications of compensating victims.

For New York City and the nation, it is crucial to establish the precise extent
of the damage inflicted by the terrorists on that awful day. And to do so solely
on the basis of solid evidence - and conclusions that emerge from rigorous,
dispassionate scientific inquiry.

This, after all, is a matter of great historical and political import; accuracy
and precision count. And neither overstating nor understating the consequences
serves the city or the nation.

Alas, emotion and monetary considerations seem to play an increasingly large
role in the shaping of this story.

Politicians (no surprise), their minds made up long before any serious
investigation ever began, have fueled the trend.

"The city medical examiner has now accepted what thousands of people with
9/11-related illnesses and their doctors have long understood: that Ground Zero
dust was harmful and even deadly," Rep. Carolyn Maloney said last week of
Hirsch's decision.

Added New York's junior senator and presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton: "This
ruling is an important step toward acknowledging . . . the devastating and
growing health impact of 9/11."

Who needs an examination of evidence or serious medical probing, in other words?
Everyone's long "known" that 9/11 dust sickened countless people. The only thing
research can do, they believe, is confirm conclusions that folks like Maloney,
Clinton and Rep. Vito Fossella have espoused all along.

Indeed, Maloney and Fossella lobbied Hirsch to link Dunn-Jones' death to 9/11
dust long ago. They challenged him when he ruled in 2004 that there was
insufficient proof of any connection.

Last Friday, they - along with Rep. Jerrold Nadler - urged him to review several
other cases of people who died after working at Ground Zero.

This may play well politically, of course. But it does truth a big disservice.

Recall the case of Police Officer Cesar Borja. News reports brazenly attributed
his death from lung disease to his service as a first-responder at Ground Zero.

This story buoyed those who blamed 9/11 dust for a widespread health crisis.
Clinton invited Borja's son to attend the president's State of the Union
Address. President Bush had him to the White House.

But later, The New York Times disclosed that, in fact, Borja never worked
downtown until Dec. 24, 2001 - well after the plume had cleared. And that he
only worked near the World Trade Center, not directly at the pile of rubble.

Now the question is: What made Hirsch suddenly change his opinion in the
Dunn-Jones case?

Hirsch says mounting research convinced him. In a letter this month, he wrote
that "accumulating evidence indicates that in some persons exposure to World
Trade Center dust can cause or contribute to sarcoidosis with cardiac
involvement."

That disease, a lung tissue-scarring illness, had earlier been cited as the
cause of death in the Dunn-Jones case.

Hirsch said that, based on new research, he "concluded that Mrs. Dunn-Jones'
exposure to World Trade Center dust on 9/11/01 contributed to her death and it
has been ruled a homicide."

Yet, as it turns out, Dunn-Jones had sarcoidosis before 9/11. Hirsch cited the
air as a possible contributing factor because experts believe exposure to dust
can cause the disease to flare up - and that could have been what precipitated
her death.

But how can anyone be sure it was exposure to 9/11 dust, and not some other
factor, that aggravated the disease?

And even if it were the air, isn't it likely that some other irritant eventually
might have set it off anyway, even if she'd managed to avoid the 9/11 plume?

The fact is, the underlying cause of death was her pre-existing sarcoidosis.

Did Hirsch succumb to pressure?

Maybe - or maybe not.

But in an emotion-driven, politically fueled climate, New Yorkers can't be sure.

And that does no one any good.

Let's be clear: Felicia Dunn-Jones' death was a tragedy, and our hearts go out
to her family.

Rescue workers, too, can only be viewed as true heroes - if for no more than
their willingness to risk the consequences and search for survivors.

And should sound research find post-9/11 air to be the primary cause of any
illness, New York, and the nation, have a duty to respond to anyone affected.

In that case, the M.E. must establish causal links to determine each case. And
he must resist the efforts of politicians and others - some perhaps searching
for grounds for a lawsuit - to influence his decisions.

But Dunn-Jones' death simply was not persuasively linked to 9/11 - at least as
the medical examiner explained it.

Politics and science rarely mix well.

This finding sets an unhappy prece  dent; it may serve the interests of the tort
bar and like-minded advantage-seekers.

But it does not serve justice.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday

A BREATH OF FRESH N.Y. AIR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 130 words


Breathe easier, New Yorkers - residents of the Empire State have smaller carbon
footprints than those of people in 45 other states, a study shows.

The state ranks 46th in the amount of greenhouse gases generated per person, an
Associated Press analysis of government data found.

The main reason? Mass transit.

Surprisingly, states with sparse populations and wide expanses have the highest
per-capita pollution rates, in part because of an over-reliance on cars, trucks
and airplanes.

Wyoming tops the list of worst per-capita carbon emissions, followed by North
Dakota and Alaska.

And the state with the total worst carbon emissions is Texas - which spews more
greenhouse gas than the next two on the list, California and Pennsylvania,
combined.            Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday

OBAMA CHILLS HILL - ATTACKS HER OVER IRAQ IN WACKY 'SNOWMAN' DEBATE

BYLINE: IAN BISHOP Post Correspondent

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 629 words


CHARLESTON, S.C. - Sen. Barack Obama ripped into front-runner Sen. Hillary
Rodham Clinton last night on the Iraq war in a sometimes-absurd debate that had
voters on video - and even a talking snowman - tossing questions at the
presidential contenders.

Obama, eager to bloody the poll-leading Clinton, jabbed the former first lady
for her recent spat with the Pentagon over whipping up pullout plans from Iraq.

"I think it's terrific that she's asking for plans from the Pentagon, and I
think the Pentagon response was ridiculous. But what I also know is that the
time for us to ask how we were going to get out of Iraq was before we went in,"
poked Obama as Clinton stood expressionless next to him on the debate stage at
the Citadel military college.

The first-of-its-kind Democratic debate used video clips from YouTube users
asking about health care, the war, education - and the snowman asking if "my son
will live a full and happy life" in the era of climate change.

Another video question - about gun control - came from a man who posed with an
automatic weapon.

About 3,000 people submitted videos, with two-dozen or so plucked by CNN
staffers and posed to the candidates.

Obama reminded debate watchers that he opposed the war from the start - a weak
spot for Clinton among the party's liberal base that is still incensed she
hasn't apologized for her initial vote of support for the invasion in 2002.

But Obama opened himself to a counterpunch moments later, when he said he was
willing, during his first year in the Oval Office, to meet with dictators from
North Korea, Iran, Syria, Venezuela and Cuba.

Clinton agreed with launching diplomatic dialogue, but said she would not agree
to meet directly with the tyrants during her first year in the White House: "I
don't want to be used for propaganda purposes. I don't want to make a situation
even worse."

In addition to taking a shot at New York's junior senator, Obama also threw a
haymaker at Manhattan cabbies - hinting that he's faced racism on city streets
as he struggled to get a taxi to pick him up.

Asked in a video question to address people who say he isn't "authentically
black enough," Obama quipped: "When I'm catching a cab in Manhattan, in the
past, I think I've given my credentials."

"But let me go to the broader issue here. And that is that race permeates our
society. It is still a critical problem," he added.

Similarly, Clinton was asked if she was not "satisfactorily feminine." She
retorted: "I couldn't run as anything other than a woman."

Meanwhile, 30 South Carolina Democratic voters, gathered in a focus group with
GOP pollster Frank Luntz at a hotel a few miles from the debate hall, each
evaluated the candidates with a "dial machine" linked to a computer - turning
the knobs to the right to 100 for great answers, or to the left to 0 for bombs.

"They came in supporting Hillary, they left liking Obama," Luntz told The Post.
"They felt he answered the questions most clearly and with the most passion."

----

'I've been growing concerned that global warming ... is being neglected. As
president, what will you do to ensure that my son will live a full and happy
life?' - Question to the candidates from a "snowman"

***

Post's panel's picks

A Post panel of YouTubers submitted video questions for last night's debate, but
none was used. Here's how the panelists saw the outcome:

* Carl Caum, 23, Murfreesboro, Tenn. - Winner: "Hillary Clinton. She really is
able to take a question and form a response very quickly."

* Staks Rosch, 32, West Chester, Pa. - Winner: "Hillary, and I'm not a supporter
of hers. She didn't misstep at all."

* Helen Rose, 33, , Va. - Winner: "Hillary Clinton. She came across as being
more experienced than the rest of the candidates."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Snowman. -Carl Caum, Staks Rosch, Helen Rose. -ONLINE-UP: RestonJohn
Edwards, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama (from left, above) before last night's
debate. One of the video questions was posed by a snowman (right).  [AP]
-Snowman. -Carl Caum, Staks Rosch, Helen Rose.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday

THE ANTI-NUCLEAR MENACE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 362 words


In facing its energy challenges, is New York heading in the complete opposite
direction as the rest of the country - and, indeed, parts of the world?

Last month, an anti-nuclear group, Friends United for Sustainable Energy (FUSE)
filed papers opposing the relicensing of one of the Indian Point nuclear
reactors. A three-judge panel must now consider FUSE's claims that the federal
government hasn't exercised enough regulatory oversight on the Westchester
plant.

The same month, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission received applications to build
and operate new reactors in Texas. The applications from NRG Energy Inc. were
the first submitted in 31 years.

Nuclear-plant construction came to a screeching halt in the wake of the Three
Mile Island incident in 1978 - even though America has never experienced a
fatality, or even serious injury, attributable to nuclear power.

NRG submitted what are the first of what is expected to be a flood of
applications in coming months for as many as 29 new reactors in 20 sites across
the country, mainly in the South.

Such ventures don't happen in a vacuum: A company won't go forward with an
application if investors aren't on board. As The Wall Street Journal recently
reported, U.S. power companies are now prepared to invest as much as $90 billion
in nuclear power.

Even some environmentalists are having second thoughts about their longtime
adamant opposition to nuke plants.

They understand that nuclear power is "clean": Unlike coal or oil, it doesn't
create the greenhouse gases that many see as contributing to global warming.

Meanwhile, France's President Nicolas Sarkozy calls nuclear power "the energy of
the future" and has urged Germany to rescind its plan to phase out nuclear
plants. France relies on nuclear power for 78 percent of its energy.

But, as the FUSE filing shows, New York - notwithstanding its own soaring energy
needs - seems poised to retreat from the working, safe, nuclear reactors it has
running, just as other states consider building new ones.

If New York is to be so foolish, it shouldn't be surprised if businesses move to
places better able to fill their energy needs down the road.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 19, 2007 Friday

'08 TERROR TEST - WHAT THE CANDIDATES SAY

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 866 words


IF you think the '08 presidential wannabes are living up to their party's reps
on national security, maybe it's because . . . they are.

That's what I found after e-mailing all eight Democrats and nine Republicans a
simple question: If you become president, what would you do to keep Americans
safe from terrorism?

(Hey, it's only the most important subject of the race.)

Candidates got several days to respond, instead of mere minutes at debates or
public events. And the question's simplicity and narrow focus was meant to force
direct answers.

Fourteen, including all the major contenders, responded. Their answers made it
clear: Republicans want America to take responsibility for its own security,
fight aggressively and stick to offense. Dems stress retreat, relying more on
diplomacy and the good graces of the world for protection.

OK, that's hardly shocking news - especially given that candidates need to
appeal to their party's base right now to win its nomination.

But their responses suggest that - despite all the lessons of 9/11, the '04
election, Iraq, the Dems' '06 triumph and the lack of any successful terror
attacks in America since 2001 - fundamental differences between Dems and
Republicans on national security persist.

They reveal other things, too:

* Rudy Giuliani was essentially correct Tuesday when he observed that Dems
"never use the word 'Islamic terrorist.' "

* Not surprising, no candidate can (or is willing to) spell out any specific,
realistic plan for a quick victory in the terror war.

* Many share key positions, like the need for a bigger military, better
intelligence and a more united international front.

* Remarkably, a few Democrats won't even admit that there is a war on or suggest
any action, defensive or offensive, to fight it.

Yet in lumping Dems with Dems and GOPers with GOPers, it's clear which party
frets more about terror and is more prepared to confront it.

And which favors a softer route.

"We must stay on offense against our enemies," writes John McCain. "We must
combat Islamic extremism wherever it is found . . . Prevailing in Iraq and
Afghanistan are critical to defeating the threat posed by radical Islamic
extremists."

A Vietnam POW who's said to have paid a high political price for backing the
Iraq campaign, McCain does not shirk from identifying the enemy: Islamic
extremists. Or from listing Iraq as a critical, and continuing, battleground. Or
from recognizing America's responsibility for its own safety.

Giuliani takes a similar tack: "Succeeding in Iraq and Afghanistan is necessary
but not sufficient," says the ex-mayor. "Ultimately, these are only two
battlegrounds in a wider war. The United States must not rest until . . . the
global terrorist movement and its ideology are defeated."

Ex.-Sen. Fred Thompson also emphasizes the "urgent threat of radical Islamic
terrorists." He says America "must defeat the terrorists abroad, and that begins
in Iraq and Afghanistan . . . We must show the world we have the will to fight
and win. A weakened America - or an America that appears weaker - will only
encourage further attacks."

Dems? Hillary Clinton, leading the pack, also insists that "there is no higher
priority . . . than keeping Americans safe from terrorism." But her response
never once mentions the terrorists' connection to Islam. Or the word "Iraq."

Her top goal: to "improve the security of chemical plants and safeguard the
transportation of hazardous materials." She also wants to "match resources . . .
and help the most vulnerable and at-risk cities prepare."

It sounds more like means-tested HillaryCare than a plan to pre-empt terror.

Sen. Barack Obama's top goal, meanwhile, is to "turn the page on an approach" -
presumably President Bush's - "that has left America less safe." He wants to add
more combat brigades to Afghanistan, "get serious" about al Qaeda in Pakistan
and develop "new military and intelligence capabilities."

But he finds it equally important that we "get our house in order by . . .
restoring our core values and the rule of law." Huh? That arguably may make
America more noble. But safer?

Many of the Dems - Gov. Bill Richardson, Sens. Joe Biden and Chris Dodd, Rep.
Dennis Kucinich - focused on ending the war in Iraq and pulling out troops. Also
not exactly a frontal assault on our enemies.

Most astounding was how much time they spent bashing Bush and focusing on issues
normal folk would surely regard as irrelevant.

John Edwards, for example, sent in a long speech demonizing Dubya. He does offer
some token ideas for fighting terror - a new multilateral "counterterrorism and
intelligence" organization, 1,000 language scholarships for students in intel
and diplomacy.

But he also suggests "fighting global climate change" and "a sweeping effort" to
eliminate global poverty. Feel safer yet?

In 2004, with the Iraq war just 1 1/2 years old, Americans were already worried
about its course. But their views on national security heavily shaped their
votes.

In 2008, the war will be 5 1/2 years old and frustration, no doubt, will be
greater.

Yet Americans take safety seriously. There's little doubt which party will
benefit from that.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Edwards: Seeks  security via scholarships.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 19, 2007 Monday

POLLUTION: CEASED OR FAMINE

BYLINE: CYNTHIA R. FAGEN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 173 words


Manmade production of carbon dioxide - the main cause of global warming - is
rapidly turning the Earth's oceans into toxic seas with dire consequences to
human health, a UN report by world scientists warned.

The loss of marine life could have a catastrophic impact on the world's food
chain, causing widespread famine.

The acid kills the fragile coral-based eco-systems and the calcium carbonate
needed for marine animals to grow protective shells to survive.

The acidification of the surface water has already increased by 30 percent,
according to the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change, a group of 2,000
scientists who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with former Vice President Al Gore
this year.

And there's concern that figure could triple by the end of the century.

The scientists laid the most blame on the United States and China as the two
biggest polluters.

Nearly a third of the world's animals and plants could become extinct and famine
increased unless there is a halt to the burning of fossil fuels and
deforestation.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday

HOT AIR AT 'WARMING' SUMMIT

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 187 words


It's been billed as the summit that could help save the planet, but the latest
United Nations climatechange conference in Indonesia has itself become a major
contributor to global warming.

Calculations suggest flying the 15,000 politicians, civil servants, green
campaigners and television crews into the island of Bali will generate the
equivalent of 100,000 tons of extra CO2 - an amount similar to the entire annual
emissions of the African nation of Chad.

The meeting, which runs from Dec. 3-14, aims to create the framework for a
successor to the Kyoto treaty on reducing global greenhouse-gas emissions, which
expires in 2012.

Attendees are expected to include celebrities such as actor Leonardo DiCaprio,
as well as California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, and former Vice President Al
Gore.

But Indonesian officials say the final tally of attendees could reach 20,000,
and fear it could stretch the island's infrastructure to the limit.

About 90 of the emissions will be generated by delegates flying thousands of
miles to Bali, with the rest coming from the facilities they will be using.
Sunday Times of London

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

A CALL TO $AVE OUR OCEANS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 174 words


Marine scientists yesterday called for a $2 billion to $3 billion study of
threats such as overfishing and climate change to the oceans, saying they were
as little understood as the moon.

A better network of satellites, tsunami monitors, drifting robotic probes and
electronic tags on fish within a decade could also help lessen the impact of
natural disasters, pollution or damaging algae blooms, they said. "This is not
pie in the sky . . . It can be done," said Tony Haymet, director of the US
Scripps Institution of Oceanography and chairman of the Partnership for
Observation of the Global Oceans.

He told Reuters that a further $2 billion to $3 billion would roughly match
amounts already invested in ocean research.

"Silicon Valley has come to the oceans," said Jesse Ausubel, a director of the
Census of Marine Life that is trying to describe life in the seas. "Lots of
cheap disposable devices can now be distributed throughout the oceans, in some
cases on animals, in some cases on the sea floor, others drifting about."
Reuters

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday

OBAMA: I'D HIRE HILL'S HUSBAND

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 263 words


He's running hard to topple Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primary,
but Barack Obama says he would hire her "talented" l husband "in a second" if he
won the White House, according to Time magazine.

In an interview that hits newsstands tomorrow, the Illinois underdog -  asked
whether he would hire Bill Clinton for a job in an Obama administration were he
to win in 2008 -  said, "In a second."

"There are few more talented people in this country," said Obama, who also said
he would bring on former Vice President Al Gore "in a minute," citing Gore's
work on climate change and global warming.

Obama and Sen. Clinton have ratcheted up the war of words over their relative
experience as the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation primary
draw near.

Bill Clinton is an enormously popular figure among Democratic voters, and while
his wife's rivals have become less cautious about being critical of him, they
have generally stayed positive.

Meanwhile, Sen. Clinton in Ankeny, Iowa, yesterday, accused Obama of flinching
from the struggle to provide health care for all Americans and said, "I am not
afraid of the Republican attacks" on the subject.

"We've got to put up a candidate who's willing to stand up for it and fight for
it," said the former first lady in her most pointed criticism to date of Obama.

"He has called his plan universal, then he has called it 'virtually universal,'
but it simply does not deserve that label," she said. "When it comes to truth in
labeling, his plan simply flunks the test."     With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

CURE FOR THE COMMON COLD - GIANTS WORK OUT IN BUBBLE, PREP FOR SNOW

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 118

LENGTH: 624 words


The weather outside was frightful, but the Giants yesterday were feeling
delightful, warm and cozy, practicing inside their climate-controlled bubble.
Whatever happened to "You play in it, you practice in it?" Especially
considering come Sunday night, when the Giants face the Redskins, it's supposed
to be more of the same harsh weather, or worse.

Tom Coughlin is old-school in many ways, but practicing outside in the winter
elements isn't one of those ways. The freezing rain and snow could have been a
good prep for the Giants, but Coughlin, who prides himself on leaving no stone
unturned, gladdened the hearts - and warmed the bodies - of his players by
working them indoors.

"Because I'm actually more concerned about the quality of the practice,"
Coughlin explained. "We have played in cold weather now many times and we have
done quite well with it. I try to get out once a week if I can. Sometimes it is
just on Saturday morning where we go out for an hour and go through our
routines. I think the quality of the practice, to me, is so important that I
want to see it right; I want to see it done. I want them to execute it the way
it should be done, make the corrections off of something that you can work with.
And I seem to lean in that direction whenever the question comes."

He'll get no argument from his players. Several Giants spoke wistfully of
experiencing a snow game and they just might get their wish. If the Giants (9-4)
are to clinch a playoff berth, they'll do it while battling not only the
Redskins (6-7) but also the thermometer. The high on Sunday is forecast for 40
degrees, but that mercury rise will be but a memory by the time the 8:15 p.m.
kickoff arrives. By then, it will be about 23 degrees with 60 percent chance of
snow showers, plus winds that during the day blow at 26 miles per hour that
might still be gusting up to 12 mph that evening.

Bundle up.

"Whoever booked an 8:15 game in the Northeast is retarded," Michael Strahan
said. "I don't know who set the schedule but that is not good, that is not fair.
The way I look at it is that we have to be out there, we have to play, so you
might as well win, that will make you a little warmer than the losing will."

What takes place in the atmosphere could have a dramatic bearing on what goes
down on the field. The Redskins want to pound the ball on the ground and with
fill-in Todd Collins making his first start at quarterback in 10 years, they'll
be even more inclined to run. Brandon Jacobs returned last week from a strained
hamstring and figures to be more capable of handling a full load. If the wind is
whipping, Eli Manning is going to be doing a whole lot of handing off.

"I get excited it's going to snow, it's going to be cold, that's linemen
weather," guard Chris Snee said.

"Definitely when the weather comes into it, this time of year running the
football either becomes your strength or your weakness," added center Shaun
O'Hara. "I know everyone has their theories about you got to practice in the
cold to be ready for the cold, that doesn't make you any less cold when it's
cold. I don't know how many more times I can use cold in a sentence."

On the flip side, the Giants know if throwing is a hazard they will get an even
heavier dose of running back Clinton Portis.

"It is going to come down to one of those games where it is going to be
physical," linebacker Antonio Pierce said. "This is how it is in the NFC East in
the month of December. It is going to be cold, it is going to be ugly, your body
is going to hurt, but you know what? You have to go out there and play. The game
isn't going to be cancelled because of the weather, so it doesn't change our
mindset. Our mindset is to go out there and put on a good performance."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Plaxico Burress. [N.Y. Post: Charles Wenzelberg]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 21, 2007 Friday

ALL THE NUDES . . . EDITORS TAKE SIDES IN WHAT IS MODEL BEHAVIOR FOR T

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1184 words


THE feud inside the New York Times over a provocative photo of a semi-nude,
underage fashion model intensified this week after Times Magazine Editor Gerald
Marzorati fired off a missive defending the photo.

The picture in question appeared in the Holiday issue of the glitzy fashion
insert T, which came out Dec. 2, and features a soft-focus side-shot glimpse of
17-year-old model Ali Michael, and her exposed left breast.

In criticizing the use of the photo in an 1,100-word column published on Dec.
16, Public Editor Clark Hoyt did more than ask whether it was appropriate to run
the photo in the first place. He also blasted what he described as the loose
editorial values of T, saying the insert blurs the lines between editorial and
advertising in ways that would not be tolerated at other parts of the paper.

Hoyt's condemnation of T came after the paper received several complaints from
readers.

Not too surprisingly, Hoyt's comments have triggered an infuriated reaction from
one of the key editors overseeing the highly lucrative magazine insert.

Marzorati fired back in a memo to staffers earlier this week aimed at defending
T and its editor, Jim Schachter.

"I will leave aside the purported central question of whether the photograph was
appropriate to run or not, though as I said on Friday to Jim Schachter - who was
terrific in calm, thoughtful defense of publishing the pictures - the standards
wardens here would have been the very people 100 years ago to have been made
apoplectic by a Renoir nude," he wrote.

Marzorati continued, "I say purported because it seems clear from the public
editor's way of getting into his column that he is offended not simply by the
photo (about which people can disagree) but rather by T in general - that the
magazine's elegant ad mixture of beauty, sensuality, luxury and God forbid,
profitability, offends a moral code at the very heart of journalism and,
especially, journalism as practiced at the New York Times.

"This kind of thinking would strike me as hilarious if it were not so sad, and
to you, I fear hurtful," he wrote.

Marzorati said in the memo that he believed the Times was in the business of
many things.

"One of those things is achieving and maintaining editorial excellence in any
subject it chooses to entertain. Another is expanding its audience reach without
sacrificing that excellence. In each of these things, among others, T is a
stellar example of what the Times can do and must continue to do if it hopes to
thrive."

Craig Whitney, the assistant managing editor in charge of maintaining the Times'
standards, agreed with Hoyt on the issue of the photo, calling it "tawdry." He
also said that if it had been brought to his attention ahead of time, he would
have urged Executive Editor Bill Keller to delete it.

All of this infighting puts Keller in the center of a storm between two warring
factions at the paper, but he's not backing down.

"I think they are within bounds for an edgy fashion magazine published by the
New York Times," said Keller in comments that were included in Hoyt's column,
which ran under the headline, "A semi-nude minor? In the Times?"

Hoyt described the photo by legendary fashion photographer Paolo Roversi as
being of "a 17-year-old model who looks younger, posing semi-nude."

He was particularly alarmed by one shot that showed her 'wearing' a $3,890 blue
taffeta coat by designer John Galliano.

"I say 'wearing' because the coat is bunched around her waist so that you can't
really tell what it is. She has her back to the camera and nothing else on," he
fumed. "In one image, she is turned slightly, showing the outline of a bare
breast, out of focus."

He doesn't stop there. In calling into question the photo, Hoyt seemed also to
question the very reason that T exists.

To be sure, Hoyt acknowledged that T's 2007 Holiday issue was responsible for $4
million to $5 million in advertising revenue, and that the insert, which is
published 15 times a year, was one of the key reasons a prominent Wall Street
media analyst upgraded the New York Times Co.'s stock rating to a "buy."

However, Hoyt said the photo spread "upset several readers and raised the
question of just how far T can go before it violates good taste and becomes
something that is not a credit to the New York Times, even as it rings the cash
register."

T, he claims, "blurs the line between editorial and advertising in a way that
most of the Times does not.

A Times spokeswoman had no further comment on the internal feud by presstime.

Party time

Ho. Ho. Ho. Ann Moore, CEO of Time Inc. since 2002, has apparently stopped
playing the Grinch and this year had no major layoffs and actually held a
corporate-wide holiday party.

Though the merrymakers were not allowed out of the Time & Life Building, an open
house was held in the company dining area on the third floor. It was the first
official Time Inc. Christmas party held since 2002, so it could be considered a
good omen for employees.

Indeed, one source even spotted someone wearing a Santa hat, and there was a
gingerbread house decorating area plus Time Inc. carolers (no doubt hired
singers as we doubt there is a Time Inc. glee club).

Still, a little free flowing wine and beer is certainly a lot nicer than seeing
a few hundred people laid off, as had been the case in recent years.

Earnings were actually up in the second and third quarters, and who knows what
festivities will erupt if the fourth quarter looks good, too.

Said an insider, reporting live from the bash that was held from 2 p.m. to 6
p.m. yesterday, "There is eggnog with and without alcohol. There is wine. There
is mulled cider. There is beer. And I think some other fancy colored very sweet
looking booze drink. There are different food-themed rooms, Christmas cookies,
cobbler, warm food, other desserts, chocolate, fruit."

It sounds like it wasn't a free lunch, but it was a nice dessert.

Putin it on

Meanwhile, Time Managing Editor Rick Stengel, after picking Vladimir Putin as
the Man of the Year, had a "pour" on Wednesday night in the Time conference
room.

He then brought about 35 staffers over to the Russian Samovar on West 52nd
Street and Broadway to continue the celebration

"I had my shot of first horseradish vodka," said Stengel.

Stengel personally flew to Russia to get the 3 1/2-hour interview for the cover
profile, and with Putin deciding to stay put as the Prime Minister when his term
as president expires, it seemed a decent choice, albeit one that is unlikely to
do much to boost newsstand sales here on the home front.

Time had tried to gin up interest in its pick with a media lunch in which
personalities like Whoopi Goldberg to "NBC Nightly News" anchor Brian Williams
pontificated on who they think should get the nod. The betting at this year's
luncheon seemed to focus on someone tied to climate change or the environment,
so the choice of Putin came out of left field.

"I think it's nice when the person of the year is unexpected," said Stengel. "I
also see part of our job is picking someone and explaining it to the world."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRESSING DOWN: NY Times Executive Editor Bill Keller (inset) is caught
in a squabble between two of his editors over this fuzzy, semi-nude photo that
ran in T magazine.  [Paolo Roversi]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 31, 2007 Monday

GIANTS OF TWO MINDS ON LOSS; PATS BATTLE PRIMES ELI, OFFENSE FOR BUCS

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 636 words


All anyone had to do was watch Eli Manning on the field and then hear him after
the fact to understand what he and the Giants got out of their significantly
insignificant 38-35 regular-season ending loss to the still-unbeaten Patriots.

What coach Tom Coughlin wanted most of all out of this unique event was to
escape healthy and with the Giants (10-6) feeling good and playing at a high
level heading into this weekend's NFC wild card playoff game against the
Buccaneers (9-7) in Tampa. Coughlin didn't get his wish on the injury side, but
there's no doubt Manning and the offense are recharged and ready to roll after
putting a considerable dent in the mighty New England defense.

"It's been a while since we came out, especially on offense, and put up a lot of
points and executed well," Manning said. "We finally had a decent day of weather
where we could do that. We were able to make some big plays in the passing game
and we haven't had that in a while."

A long while. Manning threw four touchdown passes in the loss, exactly what he
did in the season-opening defeat in Dallas. In between, the fourth-year
quarterback experienced terrible bouts of inconsistency, especially during a
five-week span that came to an end when he rose up and, for three quarters,
matched the great Tom Brady throw for throw and point for point.

In comfortably temperate weather, Manning passed the ball with verve, an
extremely encouraging sign, considering the climate in Tampa next weekend
figures to be to his liking. He'll need to be at the top of his game, because
the Buccaneers have the NFL's second-ranked pass defense.

"As far as the quality of game he played, it couldn't have come at a better
time," Coughlin said yester   day.

What was not so good for the Giants was the battering they took. Two starters,
center  Shaun O'Hara and  weak side linebacker  Kawika Mitchell,  went down in
the first half with sprained knees. Another starter, cornerback Sam Madison,
left early in the fourth quarter with a strained abdominal muscle.

Once again, Coughlin defended his decision to play to beat the Patriots, despite
having nothing to gain in a tangible sense.

"I would again challenge you on who you're going to pick out as starters who
aren't going to play?" Coughlin said. "How do you do that?"

In contrast to Coughlin's approach, Buccaneers coach Jon Gruden - with the NFC
South division title already wrapped up - began resting his starters last week.
Gruden again opted for the safe approach in Tampa Bay's regular-season ending
31-23 loss to the Panthers. Gruden, clearly ignoring the importance of momentum
heading into the postseason, kept quarterback Jeff Garcia and his other key
players on the bench, all-but ensuring the Bucs' third loss in the past four
games.

"There's different theories and different ways they go about it," Coughlin said.
"This is two games they've stuck with that. Each team is different."

Immediately after the Giants fell short against the Patriots, Coughlin stamped
the effort and the performance as the perfect way to move into the postseason. A
day later, he did not change that tune.

A few players - most vociferously Michael Strahan and Amani Toomer - could not
get over the frustration of losing and failing to keep the Patriots from their
16-0 record.

"I don't believe in the old 'valiant effort' deal . . . we came up short and
it's pretty disappointing," Toomer said.

Others, though, took a broader view.

"That team that was just out there playing, that's the team I have been looking
for all season, the New York Giants, and that's the team that needs to be in
Tampa Bay," said Plaxico Burress, who caught two touchdown passes and appears to
be getting healthier just in time. "If we go out and play with that same
intensity, we can win a lot of football games."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUNNING HOT: Eli Manning, roundly criticized recently, scrambles for a
first down during the Giants' 38-35 loss to the Patriots on Saturday night,
finally putting together a solid game and providing hope for the playoff opener
next week against the Buccaneers.  (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

DANZA PLAYS IT TO THE MAX

BYLINE: CLIVE BARNES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 544 words


WHY is a nice Italian-American boy like Tony Danza doing a quintessentially
Jewish turn as that lovably shady Max Bialystock in "The Producers"?

He's there to perform box-office magic.

A funny thing happened to the Mel Brooks musical on its way to Broadway's record
books: After critical raves Max himself couldn't have bought and tickets as hot
as the Sahara, the temperature at the St. James Theatre appears subject to
global cooling.

Approaching its seventh year, rumor has it that what had been called "the best
show ever" is basically only keeping the St. James Theatre warm for Brooks' next
musical, "Young Frankenstein."

And what better way to heat things up again than to steal a page from the
long-running "Chicago" and introduce a mini-star to stir the box-office pot?

Melanie Griffith not being available, why not have the stage-savvy Danza take a
shot as that producer's producer, the incomparable Max?

At the very worst, you might elicit remarks like spaghetti with matzo balls -
but as it happens, Danza doesn't suggest anything like the very worst.

Actually, he's extremely engaging. Remember those old ads for rye bread, "You
Don't Have to be Jewish to Love Levy's"? Who said the actor playing Max had to
be Jewish? Laurence Olivier was one of the finest Shylocks I ever saw - and,
anyway, "The Producers" remains a Broadway glory.

Brooks' meticulously plotted plot, based on his movie, has Leo Bloom, a
monumentally shy accountant, inadvertently stumbling on the classic Broadway
shell game of making money on a Broadway flop that was secretly but wildly
overfinanced.

Max embraces the idea as if it were a free pass to heaven without the messy
business of dying.

The musical depends partly on the developing chemistry between the canny Max,
who's seen it all, and the nervous Leo, who hasn't seen anything but goes along
with it. They're a crooked Laurel and Hardy, and Nathan Lane and Matthew
Broderick etched their roles and the musical itself into theatrical legend.

On the night I saw it, after a frighteningly rocky   first scene, Danza   got
his act to   gether nicely,  and in his big  number, the  "Betrayal Solilo
quy," he was ter  rific.

As Leo, Roger Bart  (who's been with the show on and off from the beginning,
originally creating the gayer than springtime Carmen Ghia) has dexterity,
sincerity and the kind of showbiz expertise with which you probably have to be
born.

Matching that expertise and dazzle was Broadway veteran Lee Roy Reams as Roger
DeBris, the carefully selected worst director in the world, with Brad Musgrove
as Carmen, his high-kicking sidekick. Angie Schworer is the long-stemmed Swedish
blond menace, Ulla. A gruff, exaggerated and excellent Bill Nolte plays the
benighted Nazi playwright, Fran Liebkind.

The whole show is in a chipper shape that does director/choreographer Susan
Stroman moderately proud, although perhaps a few touch-up rehearsals might not
come amiss.

The best show ever? Well, there's always "Hamlet" and Wagner's "Ring." But
nearly six years after those first raves, it's still damn good. "Young
Frankenstein" can wait its turn - and perhaps find another theater.

---

THE PRODUCERS

[*** 1/2] (Three and one-half stars)

The St. James Theatre, 246 W. 44th St.; (212) 239-6200.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tony Danza now plays Max Bialystock beside Roger Bart, as Leo Bloom, in
Broadway's long-running hit "The Producers."  [Paul Kolnik]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

WHY YOU HAVEN T HEARD OF GILT S NEW CHEF

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 529 words


MEET the most famous chef in town you don't know:

Christopher Lee, 31, who quietly took over at Gilt last summer and has been
weirdly snubbed by the New York media ever since.

This in a city that goes bananas over any hack who makes a claim for "global"
epiphanies.

Lee just might be the only chef of his caliber ever to remain hidden in plain
sight for so long.

Since Lee took over, Gilt - in the New York Palace Hotel's fabled Villard House
room - has lost its stuffiness and become a warm and winning venue, with an
accessible three-course, $78 prix-fixe modern-American menu that's both familiar
and exploratory.

Lee has long enjoyed a high national profile. He's won James Beard awards. He
was on the cover of Food & Wine last year as one of America's best young chefs.

From 2004 to 2006, he was the chef at Stephen Starr's celebrated Striped Bass in
Philadelphia, regarded by many as that city's must-try restaurant.

And Lee is a New Yorker, a fact that makes his low-to-no-profile at the Palace
even more bewildering.

He worked for Daniel Boulud and Jean-Georges Vongerichten. He was chef de
cuisine to executive chef Cornelius Gallagher at Oceana - the last restaurant to
which The Post awarded four stars (in 2002) back when starred reviews meant
anything.

Had Lee pitched his tent anywhere but at Gilt, it might have brought an instant
media feeding frenzy. But it was his bad luck to follow Gilt's original chef,
Paul Liebrandt, whose challenging dishes enchant food correspondents more than
they do the dining millions.

Liebrandt and his $92-and-up prix-fixe menu were gone from Gilt last summer. Lee
came in soon after. But most media types had already been to Gilt for Liebrandt.

Why go back? How many times can you cover the same hotel dining room?

But Lee's menu stands with the disciplined, globe-trotting likes of superb
Manhattan chefs such as Gabriel Kreuther at The Modern, Wayne Nish at Nish and
Andy Humm at 11 Madison Park.

Lee has a refreshingly modest philosophy. "I have a lot of drive to do what we
do very well, but I don't see myself as wanting to develop a technique like Paul
or Wylie Dufresne," he said.

It's shocking that a chef known for seafood knows something about meat, too -
Lee's way with "hausmade" bratwurst comes as a happy revelation.

"Not long ago, I thought, we have no German or Russian influences on the menu,"
Lee said. "Bratwurst came to mind after I had the best of my life up the street
at 54th and Fifth" - from the Hallo Berlin street cart.

"I took a classic German recipe and paired it with a Wisconsin-German view of
bratwurst." Lee's traditional pork-and-beef sausage emerges reborn after 24hour
spice marination. It's served with spaetzle glazed with Belgian beer sauce, what
he calls "a German mac and cheese," and cabbageless "saukerkraut" that's a lacy
swirl of lightly pickled onion, fennel, endive and green apples.

Another stunner is three-cheese risotto with Florida frog legs. The creatures
are deboned, lightly sautéed and glazed - the only frog legs I've seen glisten
on the plate.

Gilt glistens, too. Maybe it's the lights - or maybe the sparkle in Lee's menu
is simply contagious.

steve.cuozzo@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Beard winner Christopher Lee arrived with little fanfare.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday

HALF-BAKED TO BLISSFUL

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 838 words


SUDDENLY, illogically, three recently opened restaurants that looked like flops
on paper have turned out to be terrific - a miracle after a long drought during
which many of New York's best chefs sat it out, squandering their time on greedy
stabs at global "branding."

All three bowed with various strikes against them. But they're serving
creatively conceived, fearlessly seasoned dishes made from fine raw materials to
happy customers with more on their minds than Kobe beef.

None of the trio has tablecloths. All embrace the casual, young-skewing vibe.
But they're real restaurants, not lounges, tapas bars, burger pits or noodle
factories. They're original, not clones or "relaunches" of old places on their
last legs.

Best of all, their chefs are actually in the house - go now before they change
their minds.

* AMALIA, 204 W. 55th St.; (212) 245-1234

Cuisine: Mediterranean-American.

Chef: Ivy Stark

Why it sounded awful: Named for Sigmund Freud's mother. Owner Greg Brier is
mainly known for clubs. Vegas-Gothic-Rococo décor linked to Vikram Chatwal's
weird Dream Hotel. Ominous, "art-driven" shtick. Original wine list read as if
written by Borat.

The good news: Ivy Stark, one of the city's few female executive chefs, has
cooked for places from mediocre to grand. Amalia is one of her best. Let's pray
she stays, because her kitchen is the real show, not black Murano glass
chandeliers, blue chinoiserie, goofy ceiling frescoes and an opium den-like
basement grotto.

Chatwal and his turbaned pals passing through add to the over-the-top
atmosphere. Stark's colorful, North African-inflected dishes might be classier
than the crowd. The nightlife-impresario type at the next table begs two babes
to join him afterward at Scores - is his heart really in chicken stuffed with
chorizo rollatini-style? Wild king salmon charmoula with cucumber-lime yogurt is
a clinic in accessible exoticism. Sautéed and crispy calamari are equally
tender.

Amalia is far from perfection, but even farther from the fiasco it promised to
be. The pleasure extends to pastry chef John Miele's treats such as warm bananas
wrapped in crisp kataifi. And they've cleaned up the wine list.

* FR.OG, 71 Spring St.; (212) 966-5050

Cuisine: "Areas of the world influenced by French fare, including French,
Vietnamese, Moroccan and Lebanese"

Chef: Didier Virot

Why it sounded awful: Worst name since Caviar & Banana (worse, actually). Menu
sounds like it's trying too hard. Looks more like a club than a food place. And
what's an uptown guy like Virot (oft-retooled Aix) doing on the next block from
Balthazar?

The good news: Classically trained Virot finds his populist groove in this
unlikely SoHo setting of turquoise banquettes, fuchsia wall panels, round party
booths and white lace draperies. The lower level is reached via a circular
staircase with a glittering wall of 1,000 mosaic glass mirrors.

They're more polished than the service: "Lesbian mud role" turns out to be a
drink called Lebanese Muddler. But the all-over-the-map menu sparkles on the
plate and on the tongue. All dishes are devoured to the last crumb on all
visits.

The flavor spectrum conjures a distant wharf: harissa, cardamom, mango, coconut,
star anise, confidently deployed. Strips of seared, sumac-marinated lamb loin
lie transverse atop a mound of tabouli. Tajine monkfish comes with a vivid mix
of green and white asparagus, zucchini, green olives, basil lime and saffron.

At least for now, most appetizers are priced below $15 and all entrées but one
under $30. If it's too busy (and noisy) for you at night, they just opened for
lunch.

* INSIEME, 777 Seventh Ave.; (212) 582-1310

Chef: Marco Canora

Cuisine: Italian

Why it sounded awful: Bland room in the Michelangelo Hotel with window views of
stampeding tourists, Applebee's and a discount electronics store. A downtown
chef (Canora) moving uptown is always dangerous.

The good news: The best new Italian restaurant since L'Impero. At Hearth on 10th
Street, Canora's American menu leans to Italian, and at Insieme ("together"), he
embraces the Boot with a vengeance.

How'd he get here? "I knew the owner of the hotel," he says.

"Mamma Mia" patrons looking for red sauce are in for a shock. The menu is
baffling at first, with dishes organized in columns of "traditional" and
"contemporary" but without headings to explain that. The waiters grow testy when
you ask why they aren't labeled - "It would take away our speeches" - but giggle
when you ask what "culingionis" (potato ravioli) is - "I know where you're going
with that."

A taste of almost anything blows away doubts. Fish courses like "gently cooked"
king salmon are as delicate as the meats are brawny - four-way lamb (chop,
saddle, breast and sausage) and guinea hen (brined/poached breast, thigh confit,
fried wing and francese-style liver). Heavenly nocciola gelato's a one-way
ticket to Milan. Just watch your wallet: a smallish plate of spinach lasagna
with veal/beef ragu and béchamel sauce will set you back $26.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chef Didier Virot's dishes overcome the fishy name at FR.OG. [Zandy
Mangold]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 101 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

BUYS THAT BYNES

BYLINE: RAAKHEE MIRCHANDANI and DANICA LO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 754 words


'IN my family, we love a bargain," says a bubbly and very blond Amanda Bynes.
"And I love things that are well-made, but it's always nice when I find
something that doesn't break the bank," adds the 21-year-old actress fully clad
in Dear, her new under-$20 clothing line debuting at Steve & Barry's today.

"It's all about mixing and matching," she says, pointing to her $99 pair of
Steve Madden "Brytni" peep-toe Mary Janes that she paired with a YSL Muse bag
and Dear miniskirt, long pink tank and black shrug.

Her favorite bargain destinations are H&M and Forever 21. And when she was
younger, she says, her dad made her ditch the idea of rhinestone Kate Spade
sandals for Payless pairs instead.

"I've been drawing dresses since I was 8 years old. I used to watch the Oscars
and sketch dresses," she says. "If I wasn't an actress, I would have definitely
gone to Parsons. I love fashion."

Bynes' collection comes on the heels of Sarah Jessica Parker's budgetconscious
Bitten line that hit Steve & Barry's stores in June. Recently, Parker's fall
collection (in stores Sept. 15) has been plagued by controversy - her Bitten
"City Handbag" ($9.99), which appeared in fall look-books, was never produced
because of its similarity to Anna Corinna's "City Tote."

Dear, although colorful, sweet and perfectly priced could also face some
wellmanicured finger pointing - the printed nylon minimakeup bag ($6) is
reminiscent of LeSportsac's three-zip cosmetic pouch, the heart hoodie ($15)
fits the L.A. vibe just like Primp and the white glasses T-shirt ($8) references
Maison Martin Margiela's men's glasses, camera and hammer tees.

The 150-item line is wellsuited for both back-toschool and comfy weekend style.
Bynes says the casual collection - soft waffle thermals, padded plaid hoodies,
skinny stretch jeans and whimsical hoodies in heart and star prints - were all
inspired by her favorite clothes and down-to-earth style.

"I brought in some of my favorite pairs of jeans, because I wanted them to see
what I like about my stuff," she says. "I love little bags too, one for only lip
gloss and one for eye shadows that fit inside your purse. And I wanted hoodies
that I could wear snowboarding and at the movies. You know, stuff that's cheap
enough that you could have the same thing in a million different colors."

Obsessions of the week

* Not as slutty as we'd thought it'd be: Paris Hilton launches her latest vanity
project - a casual clothing line - today at Kitson in L.A. Featuring acid-wash
jeans, shiny dresses, and sequin tops priced from $38 to $98, the 20piece
capsule collection is pure California wannabe-heir-wear. Our favorite from among
the candy-colored polyester sateen pieces? The "Paris" scoopneck tee emblazoned
with a cartoon rendition of Hilton, $38 at shopkitson.com

* Eco-chic: It ain't easy being green - we know, we love cabs, too. But if this
summer's crazy heat wave, rainstorms and borough tornadoes have you convinced
about global warming, it's time to start sharing the message. Our favorite ones?
These in-your-face T-shirts that leave nothing to the imagination. 1. Kenneth
Cole's "Is it me or is it warm in here?" tee, $35 at kennethcole.com/awearness.
$10 from the sale of every shirt will be donated to fight AIDS and help the
homeless, through the Awearness Fund.

2. World Wildlife Fund's "Hotter than I should be," free with $50 donation at
worldwildlife.org/globalwarming

3. Public Library's "Little Miss Green", $50 next week at shopkitson.com

* No string attached: Stop in at Urban Outfitters in the Village (374 Sixth
Ave.; [212] 677-9350) and grab a free copy of Filter Good Music Guide. We didn't
read the articles - we're just obsessed with Nike's Oregon Waffle pins that come
with the mag and say things like "The Mustache Rides Again," "Hell on Waffles"
and "Just do it. Again."

* Wind machines: Madonna loves Shu Uemura's ultraoverthe-top false eyelashes,
and so do we - especially these newest incarnations. "Lucent Sky" blue, $20;
premium edition "Blunt Blue," $50; premium edition "Velvet Feather," $50, all at
Shu Uemura (121 Greene St., [212] 979-5500).

* Painted lady: Isabella Fiore's "Live to Love Jeni" hobo ($695 at saks.com) was
one of the first from the fall line to hit stores, and as soon as it did, more
than half the stock blew out of Saks Fifth Avenue. Available in black and brown
shimmery rich elaborately painted metallic leather, it's big enough for work
files, but cool enough for a night out.

Get a deal every day online at blogs.nypost.com/fashion

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Actress Amanda Bynes and her fashion line, including (from left) resin
deer necklace ($6), underwear ($6), pink dress ($15) with thermal ($11), star
hoodie ($15) and yellow hooded thermal ($11). [N.Y.Post: Victoria Will] -Photos:
Caitlin Thorne (10); AlphaX/X17online. -Actress Amanda Bynes and her fashion
line, including (from left) resin deer necklace ($6), underwear ($6), pink dress
($15) with thermal ($11), star hoodie ($15) and yellow hooded thermal ($11).
[N.Y.Post: Victoria Will]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
