
                               1 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 26, 2005 Tuesday

THE DANGER AHEAD - EXPERTS SAY THAT GLOBAL WARMING IS THREATENING SOME OF OUR
FAVORITE PLACES. FROM KILIMANJARO TO THE FLORIDA KEYS, CHRIS BUNTING TAKES A
CLOSER LOOK

BYLINE: Chris Bunting

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 1016 words


FOR every scientist warning about the the dangers of global warming, there's an
automobile industry lobbyist denying there's a problem. Regardless of which camp
you're in, a look around the world reveals that the consequences of global
warming are increasingly difficult to ignore.

"Climate change is real and it's happening now," says Lara Hansen, a senior
scientist for the World Wildlife Fund.

"In our lifetime, we may be seeing the snow cap of Mount Kilimanjaro disappear
by as early as 2020, the glaciers of Glacier National Park melt away by 2030 and
95 percent of the Great Barrier Reef's current coral die by 2050. And the list
goes on."

Global warming refers to the increasing temperature of the earth's atmosphere
and oceans. The average temperature of the earth's surface has risen 33 degrees
Fahrenheit since the late 1800s and is expected to rise another 34 degrees to 42
degrees by the year 2100, according to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change Web site.

"The good news is we have the technology around today to cut pollution and curb
global warming," says Daniel Becker, director of the Sierra Club's global
-warming program.

Should the dire predictions prove true, what would the world be missing?

Take a look at eight destinations at risk.

GREAT BARRIER REEF

DISAPPEARING CORAL

In 1998 and 2002, the world's largest reef experienced "coral bleaching." This
is an event in which excessively warm water causes coral to cast off the algae
needed to perform photosynthesis, thus leaving it colorless and skeletal. If
prolonged, this stress will ultimately kill the coral.

In 2002, between 60 percent to 95 percent of the reefs in the Great Barrier Reef
Marine Park were bleached. Most sites recovered, but in some locations 95
percent of the reef died, and 5 percent of the reefs in total are now described
as "severely damaged."

MT. KILIMANJARO

MELTING SNOW CAPS

Africa, already burdened by intense heat and severe droughts, could potentially
be hit hardest by global warming. Majestic Kilimanjaro, which rises to nearly
20,000 feet, has already suffered some damage.

Its signature snowcaps have been melting, and scientists warn the entirety of
its ice and snow will likely be gone by 2020. This, of course, will affect the
mountain's plant and animal life.

THE MALDIVES

MASSIVE FLOODING

This tropical paradise, best known for its incredible dive sites, was among the
nations hit by last year's tsunami. It suffered 82 deaths and enough damage to
severely affect its much-needed tourism dollars.

The Maldives is hardly out of harm's way. As the flattest country on record - 80
percent of its landmass is less than three feet above sea level - rising ocean
levels are an obvious threat. Projections for sea-level rise are between 4 and
35 inches by the end of this century, meaning a majority of the Maldives could
be under water in 30 years, and all of it by 2100, according to the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).

THE ALPS

PEAKS HAVE PEAKED

Warming temps are cooking the snow.

The Alps have lost approximately half their volume of ice since the 1850s, and
the IPCC claims that for every 34-degree Fahrenheit increase, the snow line is
pushed upward by about 490 feet.

According to a 2003 report released by the United Nations Environment Program,
Austria's snow line is expected to rise between 650 and 980 feet over the next
30 to 50 years. Italy would lose low-level skiing entirely if the altitude for
snow reliability rises to 4,900 feet (half of the county's resorts are below
4,300 feet).

MANITOBA, CANADA

BEARS AT RISK

Polar bears gather in large groups on the pristine shore of Hudson Bay in
Churchill, Manitoba. Now, however, this annual trek could put them in danger.
The bears require ice platforms on the Hudson from which to catch ringed seals,
but unseasonably warm temps are prematurely breaking up the ice, shortening the
time when bears can effectively hunt. This puts them at risk of starvation,
which in turn exposes them to the frigid elements (those pounds are needed for
warmth) and keeps females below reproduction weight.

FLORIDA KEYS

TRIPLE THREAT

The Sunshine State, getting ever sunnier, could be in for a bit of bad luck. The
Florida Keys are situated just barely above sea level.

Studies indicate that in the past century surrounding waters have risen between
7 inches and 9 inches, with as much as 20 inches (in total) expected by
century's end.

North of the Keys, the Everglades are in danger, as well. The threat comes from
invasive salt waters that could interfere with ecosystems.

Currently, the freshwater Everglades are separated from the sea by a ring of
mangroves. The Environmental Protection Agency warns, however, that "if the sea
rises faster than the mangroves, or if large tracts of mangrove forest are
damaged by hurricanes and fail to recover, much of the freshwater Everglades
might disappear during the next 100 years."

Lastly, Florida's coral reefs have suffered from bleaching.

SOUTHERN SPAIN

FADING BEACHES

Spain's famously crowded beaches and beautiful islands may eventually bid the
world a sad adios.

The nation's environmental ministry released a report in Feb-ruary that warns of
both rising sea water and a shortage of rain caused by the potential push of
summer temperatures into the realm of 122 degree Fahrenheit by 2070. (Spain is
already experiencing excruciatingly high summer temperatures, sometimes as as
steamy as 113 degrees Fahrenheit.)

GLACIER NAT'L. PARK

GLACIAL EROSION

Of the 150 or so glaciers that once existed in Montana's million-acre park in
1850, only 26 remain - over an 80 percent drop. Unless Glacier National Park
changes its name, we might have the biggest case of false advertising since Erik
the Red dubbed a vast, barren ice desert "Greenland" to attract settlers.

Since 1900, Glacier's average summer temperatures have increased by about 1.8
degrees Fahrenheit, according to the National Parks Conservation Association.
Park scientists warn that if nothing is done to curtail global warming, there
won't be a single glacier left in the park by the year 2050.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - Great Barrier Reef. (Stone/Getty Images) - Montana - Map - Great
Barrier Reef. (Stone/Getty Images) - Montana

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 3, 2005 Wednesday

HILL'S JOINING GLOBAL WARM SWARM

BYLINE: IAN BISHOP Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 146 words


WASHINGTON - Potential presidential contenders Sens. Hillary Clinton and John
McCain are expected to mush through the Alaskan frontier together later this
month for a firsthand look at the impacts of global warming.

Clinton and McCain are tentatively slated to tour Alaska and a slice of
northwestern Canada Aug. 16-19 to check out melting glaciers and coastal
erosion, Alaska's two senators told reporters there this week.

Republican Sens. Lindsey Graham (S.C.) and Susan Collins (Maine) are also slated
to jump aboard the summertime trip, Alaska Sens. Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski
said.

Clinton spokesman Philippe Reines declined to confirm the announcement.

McCain has introduced a bill - currently before the Senate environment committee
on which Clinton serves - to accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions in an effort to ease global climate change.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEN. CLINTON Heading for Alaska.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 14, 2005 Wednesday

UNDEMOCRATIC AND ANTI-POOR

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 320 words


Can development projects in poor nations cause global warming and harm residents
in Oakland, Calif., and Boulder, Colo.? And, if so, is the U.S. government to
blame for providing financial support for such projects?

A federal judge in San Francisco seems to think so.

Recently, U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White gave environmental groups and others
the OK to sue two federal agencies for financing overseas projects the groups
say might worsen global warming.

The plaintiffs, which include Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace, seek a ruling
to force environmental reviews of U.S.-backed foreign projects. But their real
goal, they readily admit, is to get government to fund "more alternative energy
projects, more conservation measures, as opposed to fossil fuel."

Apparently, the traditional political process isn't working for these groups. So
they've resorted to an old tack of the disgruntled left: Sue to change policy.

That greens would flout democracy so brazenly is infuriating enough. But in this
case, the link between U.S. funding of foreign projects and any potential impact
to U.S. residents is, at best, remote.

Let's face it: Even if you believe human activity is the main force behind
global warming and climate change, the suggestion that certain projects -
overseas! - can be singled out for their impact on U.S. residents is simply
preposterous.

The plaintiffs say these projects help boost temperatures, threatening the water
supply and air quality and raising the risk of fires and flooding here. Some
enviros have even blamed global warming for the ferocity of Hurricane Katrina.

But how can such notions be proven?

Meanwhile, greater development, particularly of energy sources, helps poor
nations enormously. Dubious links to climate change are hardly grounds to stop
this work.

But if they are to be stopped, it should be through a proper democratic
political process. Not the courts.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday

BILL GATHERS LEADERS TO SOLVE WORLD WOES

BYLINE: LUKAS I. ALPERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 264 words


Former President Bill Clinton today kicks off his ambitious global-initiative
forum, which gathers 39 heads of state, 300 CEOs and numerous scholars under one
roof in the Big Apple.

For three days, the movers and shakers - from South African President Thabo
Mbeki to News Corp.

Chairman and New York Post Publisher Rupert Murdoch - will deliver speeches and
take part in panel discussions seeking solutions to global problems.

"This nonpartisan conference will concentrate a diverse and select group of
current and former heads of state, business leaders, noteworthy academicians and
key NGO [nongovernmental organization] representatives to identify immediate and
pragmatic solutions to some of the world's most pressing problems," Clinton
said.

The Clinton Global Initiative is a project of the William J. Clinton Foundation.

Each of the attendees was charged with briefing themselves on the issues to be
discussed, which include fighting poverty, improving governance, understanding
religion and conflict, and addressing climate change.

All the participants have pledged to try to implement solutions conceived during
the conference.

The workshops - held at the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers - will focus on
such issues as "What's Next in the Middle East?" and "Promoting Prosperity
Through Climate Change Policy."

Other attendees at the affair will include King Abdullah bin Al-Hussein of
Jordan, newly elected Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko, Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Erdogan, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 8, 2005 Friday

BUSH & BLAIR: WE ARE UNITED TO CRUSH KILLERS

BYLINE: IAN BISHOP Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 738 words


WASHINGTON - An unwavering President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair
- interrupting the G-8 summit in Scotland - yesterday condemned what Blair
called the "barbaric" London bombings, and vowed to bring the terrorists to
justice.

Bush declared, "We will not yield to these people, will not yield to the
terrorists."

"We will find them, we will bring them to justice, and at the same time we will
spread an ideology of hope and compassion that will overwhelm their ideology of
hate."

The coordinated terror attacks unleashed on London's subway system came as world
leaders continued their summit in Gleneagles, Scotland.

"It's particularly barbaric that this has happened on a day when people are
meeting to try to help the problems of poverty in Africa and the long-term
problems of climate change in the environment," Blair said.

Blair, pausing at moments to rein in his emotions, warned that terrorists don't
"realize that our determination to defend our values and our way of life is
greater than their determination to cause death and destruction."

"We shall prevail, and they shall not," Blair added later.

As Blair spoke shortly after the attacks, world leaders attending the Scotland
summit stood shoulder to shoulder behind him in a show of international unity -
a signal Bush found empowering.

"I was most impressed by the resolve of all the leaders in the room. Their
resolve is as strong as my resolve," he said.

Regional spats among the world leaders over issues like environment and trade -
and even Blair's recent tiff with French President Jacques Chirac - melted away,
replaced by a resolute and unified anti-terror stance.

At the time of the terror strikes, Bush and Blair were wrapping up an outdoor
photo op to kick off G-8 activities - where Bush even joked of his Wednesday
bicycle crash.

Bush wasn't told of the attacks until about 20 minutes later, alerted by Chief
of Staff Andy Card. He immediately reached out to U.S. homeland and national
security officials.

Initially, Bush couldn't get through to Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff, who was on the phone plotting strategy with White House anti-terror
adviser Fran Townsend.

To coordinate responses and protect against any follow-up strikes in the United
States, Bush held a secure video conference with his top anti-terror lieutenants
from his hotel suite.

The president addressed reporters from the sprawling Scottish resort just as a
somber Blair, who had been driven from the hotel by a Daimler, took off in a
Chinook helicopter for his rushed trip back to London - although he promised to
return.

Bush said the attacks - possibly timed to coincide with the world leaders'
summit emphasizing African aid, climate stabilization and trade - underscore the
"evil" rage that drives terrorists.

"The contrast couldn't be clearer between the intentions and the hearts of those
of us who care deeply about human rights and human liberty, and those who kill -
those who have got such evil in their heart that they will take the lives of
innocent folks," he said.

"The war on terror goes on," he said.

Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice offered a full array of U.S.
resources and support to our British allies - and had already dispatched an FBI
team to assist in the investigation.

----

Prime Minister Tony Blair's statement on the attacks in Britain, as delivered at
the G-8 summit

'We condemn utterly these barbaric attacks. We send our profound condolences to
the victims and their families.

All of our countries have suffered from the impact of terrorism.

Those responsible have no respect for human life. We are united in our resolve
to confront and defeat this terrorism that is not an attack on one nation but on
all nations and on civilized people everywhere.

We will not allow violence to change our societies or our values, nor will we
allow it to stop the work of this summit. We will continue our deliberations in
the interests of a better world.

Here at this summit, the world's leaders are striving to combat world poverty
and save and improve human life. The perpetrators of today's attacks are intent
on destroying human life. The terrorists will not succeed.

Today's bombings will not weaken in any way our resolve to uphold the most
deeply held principles of our societies and to defeat those who would impose
their fanaticism and extremism on all of us. We shall prevail and they shall
not.'

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -FRIENDS IN NEED: Tony Blair, joined by a grim-faced President Bush at
the G-8 summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, vows yesterday to overcome the
"barbaric" bombers. [Charlie Bibby / FT / Pool photo] -A distressed-looking Tony
Blair casts his eyes downward at the G-8 summit in Scotland, moments after
learning of the attacks in London.  [Jeremy Selwyn / AFP / Getty] -FRIENDS IN
NEED: Tony Blair, joined by a grim-faced President Bush at the G-8 summit in
Gleneagles, Scotland, vows yesterday to overcome the "barbaric" bombers.
[Charlie Bibby / FT / Pool photo]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 18, 2005 Sunday

GLOBAL COOLING ; PITT, JOLIE IGNORE EACH OTHER AT CONFAB

BYLINE: LUKAS I. ALPERT and BRIGITTE STELZER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 371 words


"Brangelina" continued to pretend they barely know each other while attending a
panel discussion at former President Bill Clinton's Global Initiative in Midtown
yesterday.

Miss Pillowlips, a k a Angelina Jolie, arrived first at the Sheraton New York
Hotel and Towers.

She was photographed chatting with Norwegian President Kell Magne Bondevik
before sauntering over to a morning discussion on poverty.

Her good friend, U.N. Millennium Project director Jeffrey Sachs, spoke at the
talk.

After the panel discussion began -which unlike others was closed to
photographers -Brad Pitt quietly slid in and sat on the opposite side of the
room from his unconfirmed girlfriend.

Their relationship, which began while they were filming "Mr. & Mrs. Smith," is
regarded as the catalyst for the demise of Pitt's marriage to Jennifer Aniston.

But they're coy about their connection and have not admitted to a love affair
-despite being spotted vacationing together and posing for artsy photographs as
a mock suburban husband and wife in W magazine.

When yesterday's lecture ended, Pitt, who had attended the conference Friday as
well, apparently left through a side door.

The three-day conference -which ended yesterday -was organized by Clinton to
highlight global issues such as poverty and the environment.

Attendees included heads of state, business leaders and celebrities such as Mick
Jagger, Bono, Oprah Winfrey and Barbra Streisand.

Participants were required to commit to some sort of action to help solve a
major global problem.

Some pledges include promises to help rebuild the hurricane-ravaged Gulf Coast,
improve mass media in Africa and invest in alternative energy sources.

In all, more than 190 pledges were made for projects totaling over $1.25
billion, Clinton said.

Former Vice President Al Gore wowed the crowd with his speech on climate change
and received a five-minute standing ovation.

"There are clear warnings now about the impact of global warming and they are
not being heeded," he said.

"Unless we are willing to make great efforts to change, Hurricane Katrina will
be, as Winston Churchill said: 'The first sip, the first taste from a bitter cup
that we will drink from over and over and over.' "

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGELINA WHO? Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie never acknowledged each
other at the Global Initiative conference in Midtown yesterday. (Brigitte
Stelzer; Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday

LABOR PAINS AS HUGE UNIONS DITCH AFL-CIO

BYLINE: NEIL GRAVES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words


The Teamsters and the Service Employees International Union split from the
AFL-CIO yesterday in a historic withdrawal that cost the labor giant two of its
largest affiliates - and 3.2 million members.

AFL-CIO President John Sweeney condemned the move, calling it a "grievous
insult" to working people.

The organization's annual convention was shaken to its roots when the two unions
made their announcement in Chicago at the office of the Change to Win Coalition,
a group of seven dissident unions whose aim is to organize more members and
reverse a long slide.

"In our view, we must have more union members in order to change the political
climate that is undermining workers' rights in this country," said Teamsters
President James P. Hoffa. "The AFL-CIO has chosen the opposite approach."

Hoffa added: "This is the beginning of a new era for American workers."

But Sweeney, whose organization represented 13 million members before yesterday,
blasted the defection during his keynote address at the AFL-CIO's nearby
convention.

"At a time when our corporate and conservative adversaries have created the most
powerful anti-worker political machine in the history of our country, a divided
movement hurts the hopes of working families for a better life," Sweeney said.

Other unions that may join the stampede include the United Food and Commercial
Workers, with 1.4 million members; UNITE HERE, with 450,000 members in the
textile, hotel and restaurant industries; the Laborers' International Union of
North America, with 800,000 nonskilled workers; and the United Farm Workers,
with just 30,000 members.

Many union presidents, labor experts and the Democratic Party, which has had a
longtime link with the union movement, fear the split will weaken labor.

But Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said business interests who believe the rift will
make organized labor ripe for the picking have another thought coming.

"We have news for them - it's not going to happen," he said to cheers. "Our
unity is our strength. We will stand together and fight for working families."

The Democratic National Committee, through a spokesman, declined to comment.

The decision to withdraw was not an easy or happy one for SEIU leader Andrew
Stern, once a Sweeney protégé.

"Our world has changed, our economy has changed, employers have changed," Stern
said. "But the AFL-CIO is not willing to make fundamental changes as well. By
contrast, SEIU has changed."

In Washington, White House press secretary Scott McClellan said President Bush
was staying out of the labor dispute.

"That's a political matter for them to address," he said.

Local labor lawyer Jerrold Goldberg said the immediate result would be "internal
and political."

Goldberg said non-raiding clauses would prevent any organizing within the
average union shop, but non-unionized workers may expect visits soon.

The new organization is "gearing for the unorganized workforce, not the
organized workforce," he said.

Since 1983, union membership has declined by 1.6 million, even as total
employment has risen by more than 26 million.

---

AFL-CIO

Who's who

AFL-CIO's largest unions:

* Service Employees International Union: 1.8 million

* International Brotherhood of Teamsters (led by James Hoffa, below): 1.4
million

* United Food and Commercial Workers International Union: 1.4 million

* UNITE HERE - 450,000 active members; more than 400,000 retirees

* Laborers International Union: 800,000

Diss-united

Q. Why did they bolt?

A. The Teamsters and SEIU felt the old-schoolers of the AFLCIO weren't getting
the recruiting job done.

Q. How many bolted?

A. 3.2 million of the 13 million AFL-CIO members.

Q. Will more leave?

A. Looks like it. United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, with
1.4 million members, and UNITE HERE, with 450,000 active members, also boycotted
the convention.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -James Hoffa -AFL-CIO President John Sweeney -James Hoffa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 9, 2005 Saturday

W. HAPPY WITH G-8 AID PLAN

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 195 words


GLENEAGLES, Scotland - President Bush returned home from the G-8 summit
yesterday, pleased with an African-aid plan the White House calls "historic."

The president left the summit after the leaders agreed to boost aid to Africa by
$50 billion, but failed to set a specific economic target for each country to
meet - as British Prime Minister Tony Blair had hoped.

Despite agreeing on an aid package, the meeting was overshadowed by the deadly
London bombings.

Upon his return to Washington, Bush visited the British embassy to sign a book
of condolences.

World leaders also bowed to U.S. pressure by approving a declaration on climate
change that avoided taking any concrete steps to fight global warming, such as
setting targets or timetables for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions.

The summit declined to embrace Blair's proposal for promises of reductions of
pollutants that scientists say cause global warming.

It also failed to resolve a long-standing impasse over the 1997 Kyoto Protocol,
which the Bush administration has rejected but which the other G-8 members have
ratified, binding them to reduction targets that are now in effect.         Post
Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 10, 2005 Saturday

BUBBA RIPS BUSH ON CLIME

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 145 words


MONTREAL - Ex-President Bill Clinton told a global audience of diplomats and
environmentalists yesterday that the Bush administration was "flat wrong" in
claiming that reducing greenhouse-gas emissions to fight climate change would
damage the U.S. economy.

With a "serious, disciplined effort" to develop energy-saving technology, "we
could meet and surpass the Kyoto targets in a way that would strengthen" the
economy, he said.

Clinton, who champions the Kyoto Protocol, the emission-control pact opposed by
the administration, spoke in the final hours of a two-week U.N. conference at
which Bush was strongly criticized.

Delegates from more than 180 nations bargained behind closed doors until 6:30
a.m., fine-tuning an agreement to negotiate additional reductions in carbon
dioxide and other gases after 2012, when the Kyoto accord expires.   Post Wire
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 17, 2005 Saturday

HILL STARS WITH BILL; CELEBS GALORE AT WORLD CONFAB

BYLINE: LUKAS I. ALPERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 301 words


In what had all the appearance of the passing of a torch from a former president
to a possible future one, Hillary Rodham Clinton took the stage yesterday at her
husband's ambitious and celeb-filled global initiative conference.

Sen.

Clinton took the opportunity to drill away at the Bush administration's "absence
of leadership" on climate change.

The high-profile three-day conference at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers attracted
39 heads of state and hundreds of other participants to discussions about
poverty, governance and religion.

During an afternoon panel discussion, Sen. Clinton was seated next to 2004
Democratic presidential hopeful Wesley Clark. They both sounded like potential
candidates in 2008, as they discussed climate.

"I would advocate a much more concerted effort on our government's part to fund
an extensive research project into alternative forms of energy," Clinton said.

"It's not an EPA problem," Clark said. "It's really a national security
problem."

Their comments prompted moderator Jose Maria Figueres, the former president of
Costa Rica, to ask a third panel member, EPA official Anne Baker, which office
she happened to be running for.

The global forum also attracted world-class celebrities along with world
leaders. Brad Pitt, Mick Jagger, Barbra Steisand, Oprah Winfrey, rapper Diddy
and poet Maya Angelou were all there.

Earlier in the day, it was the other half of the former first couple that drew
attention, as Bill Clinton spoke on a panel that included King Abdullah of
Jordan, British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice.

Bill Clinton said he's content in his retirement.

"The greatest thing about no longer being an elected official is you can say
what you want," Bill Clinton said. "The problem is - will anyone listen?"

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JUST LOOKING: Brad Pitt and Oprah Winfrey at the Clintons' Midtown
forum yesterday. (Getty)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 11, 2005 Friday

THE FISH THAT GOT AWAY; FULTON MARKET HEADS TO BRONX

BYLINE: RICH CALDER and BILL SANDERSON

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 438 words


As he helped load trucks at the Fulton Fish Market yesterday, Bill Bartone felt
a twinge of regret - he'll be the last in his family to work at the storied
downtown Manhattan market, which is moving to a modern new building in The
Bronx.

"I'm working the same ground my father and grandfather worked on - and now all
of a sudden we're leaving," said Bartone, 49, a Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, resident
who's earned his living at the market for 30 years.

By Monday, only the smell of fish will remain in the buildings that house the
183-year-old fish market.

It's been decades since fishing trawlers docked on the East River and unloaded
their catch at the Fulton Fish Market, where wholesalers packed fish in ice for
sale to stores and restaurants around the region.

Nowadays, the catch comes and goes by truck - so the operation might as well
relocate to a modern, $85 million climate-controlled building in the Hunts Point
section of The Bronx, where the fish sellers will take their place among other
food wholesale businesses.

"This place is antiquated and very filthy," Bartone said of the market, where he
works for M. Slavin & Sons, a fish retailer with operations in several East
Coast cities.

"We're outdoors and exposed to the elements. The winters could get very cold
down here. In the summer it gets too warm sometimes, even at 1 in the morning."

But Robert Nicolay, 48, who receives inventory for three comapanies at the
market ,waxed nostalgic for the atmoshphere.

"Down here it's exhilarating anarchy," he said.

But last night was eerily different. "There's a lot less fish. A lot less
noise," Nicolay said. "We couldn't even have this conversation any other night."

Fish wholesaler Joe Gurrera, 51, will miss the cobblestones of South Street, and
watching the sun rise by the Brooklyn Bridge.

"But life goes on," he said.

He thinks the main advantage of The Bronx move will be its climate-controlled
building.

"We'll all welcome the fact we don't have to work outdoors in January, February
and March," he said.

The market was to move in September, but a company sued over being excluded from
the new operation in The Bronx, and raised fears the Mafia would sink its
tentacles into the fish business.

With the lawsuit heading toward a settlement, the fish wholesalers began moving
to their new home this week. Some plan to party this morning at South Street
Seaport-area bars when the early shift ends at 8 a.m.

"There's a lot of nostalgic feeling" about South Street, said Gurrera. "But
going to The Bronx is great. You know what? I'm looking forward to it."

Additional reporting by Brian Hamacherrich.calder@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEA CHANGE: For 183 years, the Fulton Fish Market has seen the
waterfront burgeon, then virtually vanish: at full speed in the 1930s (top
left); Robert Kennedy's 1964 Senate campaign stop (top right); Bobby DiGregorio
filets a final tuna yesterday. (CORBIS; AP; Keith Bedford)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 30, 2005 Friday

YEAR OF THE DEM? - DON T BET THE FARM, FOLKS

BYLINE: JOHN PODHORETZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 908 words


STANLEY Greenberg, the Democratic pollster, seems increasingly convinced that
America is headed for a "change election" in 2006.

Using the results of a poll he'd done with a Republican counterpart for National
Public Radio, Greenberg makes a strong case that the disgruntled public will be
looking for something new next November, and that this could translate into a
"political earthquake" - one that might hand control of the House and Senate to
Democrats.

Greenberg is one of the most interesting partisan analysts in American politics,
and his words should be taken seriously by Democratic friend and Republican foe
alike. So let's do that.

Greenberg's case rests on data from the NPR survey. First, he points out that 60
percent of Americans say the country is going in the wrong direction, while only
35 percent say it's on the right track. And while his new poll registers a
five-point improvement in the president's approval numbers (up to 44 percent),
those polled say they prefer Democrats to Republicans in Congress by a margin of
8 points.

Want more? In his poll, 11 percent of those who say they voted for Bush in 2004
say they will vote for Democrats for Congress in 2006. Only 4 percent of those
who voted for Kerry say they'll vote for a Republican. And independent swing
voters indicate a 17-point preference for Democrats.

Sounds ominous for Republicans? Maybe.

But probably not.

Other surveys, like the newest Gallup poll, offers a more positive perspective
for Republicans. And this NPR survey has historically overrepresented
selfdescribed Democrats by almost 10 percent, to the poll's detriment.

With those caveats in mind, let's take on Greenberg's first point: the fact that
60 percent of voters say the country is on the wrong track. In the same survey
in August 2004, 55 percent said the country was on the wrong track, which is
pretty close to the current number and was registered only three months before
the 2004 election. Despite that number, President Bush won a decisive
three-point victory and Republicans picked up four seats in the Senate and three
in the House.

Now, how about the sobering fact for Republicans that voters say they want to
vote for a Democrat for Congress? Again, throughout 2004, polls across the board
showed the same Democratic preference - yet when voters actually went to cast
their ballots, they increased the GOP's margins in the House and Senate.

There are several problems with this popular polling question. First, many of
those surveyed may not actually have much of a choice between a Republican and a
Democrat when they get to the ballot box in 2006. According to the authoritative
Cook Political Report, of the 435 seats in the House of Representatives up for
grabs next year, an astounding 378 incumbents will almost certainly be
re-elected. Many won't even have a challenger.

Or, to put it another way, there are only 57 seats in the House of
Representatives that might even be remotely competitive - and of those 57, Cook
figures 29 are pretty close to being sure things.

That leaves 28 seats in serious contention. Of those 28, 18 are held by
Republicans. If Democrats won every single one of those 18 seats, they'd take
control of the House. That's almost impossible to do, and if it were going to
happen, Democrats would probably have to be beating Republicans on the socalled
"generic ballot" question by a margin of 30 points or more - not by a mere 8
points.

The odds are greater for a Democratic pickup in the Senate. Here, too, though,
the "generic" preference for Democrats may be misleading. Only 33 Senate seats
are up for re-election - and only 14 of those are in contention in any serious
way. Many of those surveyed by Greenberg may not have a chance to express their
"preference" for a Democrat.

As for the notion that independent voters are going strong for Democrats, that's
all well and good - except for the fact that independent voters just don't have
the same oomph they once did.

The number of genuine independents shrank to something like 7 percent of the
electorate in 2004 down from 25 percent in 1992). Thus, a 17-point preference
for Democrats among independents in a poll really doesn't amount to very much at
all in the current political climate. If I get my math right, that comes out to
about 1 percent of the electorate.

Plus, independents aren't the most reliable when it comes to actually turning
out at the polls.

Thus, if you combine Greenberg's data with historical trends and the current
structure of American politics, you don't come up with a "change" election at
all. But as he points out, there is an X-factor on the horizon: the ethics and
corruption issue. "The indictments and investigations, stretching from both
houses of Congress to the White House, from Washington to California, have
hardly penetrated the public consciousness," Greenberg says. If they do - if, in
other words, the investigation involving the GOP lobbyist Jack Abramoff explodes
into a mammoth corruption scandal on Capitol Hill, then all bets are off.

Greenberg does offer a note of caution for Democrats: They cannot expect that
the Abramoff scandal will do all the work for them. "Democrats have only a
seven-point advantage on 'improving ethics in Washington, D.C.,' " Greenberg
writes. "Democrats will not get heard unless they are reformers - differentiated
from the special-interest cesspool in Washington and prepared to advocate real
change."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greenberg: Pollster sees a Democrat sweep.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 16, 2005 Wednesday

BETTING THE HOUSE - HOMEOWNERS WIN AS PRICES SOAR IN VEGAS, ATLANTIC CITY

BYLINE: BRADEN KEIL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 565 words


The biggest winners in Las Vegas and Atlantic City gambled on real estate.

New figures show prices of homes in Vegas rising faster than anywhere else in
the country.

They went up 47.3 percent in the last 12 months, with the median price for a
single-family home at $281,400, according to the National Association of
Realtors.

In the Northeast, the best bet was Atlantic City, where prices were up 18.9
percent, with the median cost of a home at $216,500.

Not surprisingly, most of the top 10 price gainers were in warmer climates, from
California to Florida.

The second-largest price jump in the country was in the Riverside/San Bernardino
area of California, where prices were up 34.7 percent; followed by Florida's
West Palm Beach/Boca Raton corridor, up 34 percent.

Overall, the national median home price was $187,500, up 8 percent from 2003.

Median prices in the survey ranged from a low of $87,800 in Beaumont, Texas, to
a high of $656,700 in the San Francisco Bay area.

Following San Francisco is the Anaheim/Santa Ana area south of Los Angeles at
$627,500. The San Diego area came in third at $569,900.

Prices in the New York metro area were up 13.8 percent to a median of $403,600.

The report, which covered 129 metropolitan areas, showed 62 areas in the country
with double-digit annual increases in homes, beating the previous record of 49
areas showing price gains of 10 percent or more.

"We also ended the year with a record low inventory of homes for sale," said
Walter Molony, an association spokesman.

"There is an increasing population throughout the country with a lot more buyers
than sellers."

Molony adds that four out of 10 purchasers are first-time buyers.

Regionally, the strongest increase was in the West, up 14.1 percent to $278,000.
Northeast prices posted a 13.5 percent upswing.

While the highest median sales prices are found in the West, the highest sale
price ever was recorded in the East.

Cosmetics mogul Ron Perelman owns the record with the $69.9 million he got for
his Palm Beach, Fla., estate from Washington Redskins co-owner Dwight Schar.

But two properties for sale in New York state - a Hamptons property with a $75
million price tag and a triplex penthouse atop the Pierre Hotel being offered
for $70 million - could topple that lofty level.

----

Home $weet home

Top 10 fastest gainers in national real-estate prices:

1) Las Vegas; Median price: $281,400 - Up 47.3%

2) Riverside/San Bernardino; Median price: $322,400 - Up 34.7%

3) West Palm Beach/Boca Raton; Median price: $338,800 - Up 34%

4) Bradenton; Median price: $245,700 - Up 32%

5) Sacramento; Median price: $343,800 - Up 31.5%

6) Madison; Median price: $172,200 - Up 30.5%

7) Washington, D.C./Va./Md.; Median price: $370,800 - Up 26.9%

8) Ocala; Median price: $114,100 - Up 26.8%

9) Fort Myers; Median price: $198,000 - Up 26.5%

10) Sarasota; Median price: $279,500 - Up 25.8%

Atlantic City; Median price: $216,500 - Up 18.9%

Source: National Association of Realtors

Biggest increases in the New York metro market:

% change from 2003 to 2004 -- Median home price

New Haven, Conn. up 16.5%   $264,600

Monmouth/Ocean up 16.5%   $338,400

Nassau/Suffolk up 15.2%   $431,900

Middlesex/Somerset/Hunterdon up 15%   $358,200

Newark up 14.9%   $369,500

Bergen/Passaic up 14.4%   $423,500

New York metro area, including North N.J., Long Island and Conn. up $13.8%
$403,600

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Tri-State area [map] -United States [map] -Tri-State area [map]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 9, 2005 Saturday

WATCH YOUR ASH! 'SUPERVOLCANO' HEATS UP THE SCREEN

BYLINE: Adam Buckman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 89

LENGTH: 360 words


"Supervolcano"

Tomorrow at 8 p.m. on Discovery

ï ï ï   (three stars)

AFTER watching this TV  movie about a volcanic eruption so gargantuan that  it
destroys much of the world as we know it, I still have no idea if it's possible
for this to happen.

And since this telemovie is on Discovery Channel, many viewers might conclude
that it can happen, or is about to happen, since Discovery has had a reputation
over the years for emphasizing science over fiction.

In its publicity, Discovery refers to "Supervolcano" as a "docudrama," which
implies that the known facts support the movie's theory that the earth's crust
is about to rupture in a manner not experienced on this planet for 21/2 million
years.

When the movie was over, I remained skeptical of its value as an educational
tool. But at the same time, I was enormously entertained.

Maybe Discovery should have simply dropped the educational pretext and promoted
"Supervolcano" for what it is - an over-the-top, nail-biting, disaster flick.

"Supervolcano" was made by the BBC and first aired in the United Kingdom - which
explains why the script has its American characters describing distances in
terms of kilometers instead of miles.

The movie identifies Yellowstone National Park in northwest Wyoming - an area
renowned for its volatile, underground, geologic activity - as Ground Zero for
an unprecedented volcanic event that would launch billions of tons of gritty ash
and poisonous gases several miles into the atmosphere.

Within a few days or weeks, the movie hypothesizes, more than half of the United
States would be covered with several feet of gritty ash. That, along with
cataclysmic climactic changes caused by the gaseous emissions, would result in
millions of deaths in the U.S., and chaos throughout the world.

Filmed on location among the geysers, hot springs and bubbling mud pots of
Yellowstone, the movie focuses on a group of U.S. geologists who explain the
region's phenomena and set the stage for the movie's disaster scenario.

Like all effective disaster films, this one manages to make the whole thing seem
entirely plausible.

Can it really happen? Let's hope not.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Erupting volcano.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 19, 2005 Sunday

X-RATED APPLE GETS 'ACTION!' PORN-FLICK BLITZ MAKES GOTHAM SMUT CITY AGAIN

BYLINE: HEATHER GILMORE

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1701 words


It's sex all over the city.

On rooftops, along alleyways and in high-class hotels - starring your neighbor,
shopkeeper and bartender - New York City's porn industry is back and as bold as
ever before.

More than 50 porn films will be made in New York this year, up from only a
handful five years ago. They will generate several million in revenue, a tiny
but rapidly growing slice of a booming $10 billion-dollar industry that boasts
11,000 new titles a year nationally.

"We think it's terrific that the adult industry is growing in New York," said
Steven Hirsch, a founder of the country's leading porn peddlers, Vivid
Entertainment Group. "The diverse scenery is what is drawing some of the big
adult corporations to the Big Apple."

Manhattan's "porn king," Joe Gallant, loves the city's sexscape, although he
can't vouch for all New Yorkers. Last month, he directed a six-person orgy for
Playboy's "Sexcetera" series on the rooftop of a Hells Kitchen apartment
building when a couple sipping wine on a roof two buildings away spoke out in
disgust.

"The girl said, 'Can you please stop doing that? We can see you,' I mean, she
was young, and this is Manhattan, I couldn't believe she was so offended."

Redlight TV's Eric Marano filmed part of his feature "Show and Tell" in the
penthouse apartment of a wealthy Chinese couple on Central Park West last July.

Marano paid the couple $1,000 for the day and shot a scene where a bride has sex
with her bridesmaid only minutes before her wedding. "You have the beautiful
city skyline in the background - it's a real piece of art," Marano said.

Internet porn-production company The Head Clinic has shot "gonzo-style" sex
scenes in four of the five boroughs once a week since June of last year.

"We make it look like the girls are having sex and someone could walk by at
anytime, but we make sure it's safe," said co-owner Drew, who refused to give
his last name.

"We shoot in hotels, people's houses, studios, penthouses, strip clubs and
stairwells in the projects - we try to sell it on the fact that it's
unstructured."

New York's porn pushers know it is illegal to film sex in public places,
including hotel rooms, but continue to shoot outdoor ogling because demand for
such scenes is hot.

The producers admitted they do register their outdoor shooting schedules with
the city Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting, a requirement mainstream
movies abide by. A spokeswoman for the agency could not be reached.

While most New York porns are considered part of the "amateur" genre - where
scenes are shot by professional but little-known actors posing as newcomers -
some big names are champing at the bit to film here.

Vanessa Del Rio, one of the grande dames of porn, is staging a comeback with
Gallant's company, with shooting slated for next month in Manhattan.

"It's a look back at my life, my fantasies, and I talk about all the wonderful
things I've done, and I get to wear lots of beautiful lingerie," said De Rio,
who lives in Staten Island.

Savanna Samson, a Vivid contract actress and one of the most recognizable faces
of porn, hopes to shoot movies closer to her Long Island home and Manhattan
apartment, rather than the porn mecca of the San Fernando Valley in California.

"The adult industry is constantly expanding, and I'm not surprised that it's
growing in the city," said Samson, who was born in upstate New York.

"I also love the culture of the city and attend the opera and the ballet
whenever I can."

When he's not directing sexy starlets, Gallant is teaching about it. His class
at the Learning Annex, "How to Shoot Your own Adult Porn Video," recently took a
field trip to a Sixth Avenue sex shop in the West Village.

"This guy and girl were having sex on the floor while we all stood around, and I
was explaining how you would shoot it," he said.

Gallant, 48, started Black Mirror Productions in October 2000 while he was an
Emmy Award-winning sound-effects designer for the CBS soap opera "Guiding
Light."

Prior to porn, Gallant formed the rock orchestra "Illuminati," which played at
CBGB on the Lower East Side and the Knitting Factory in TriBeCa and toured
across Europe.

In 1995, the Grateful Dead's bassist, Phil Lesh, asked Gallant and his orchestra
to record versions of their music, which produced two well-received albums. With
so many musicians to pay, however, the group struggled to break even. He said
the group eventually broke up and he turned to skin flicks for a career change.

Two of his films have won the amateur award at the AVN Awards, the porn
industry's equivalent of the Oscars - "Manhattan Girls" in 2004 and "Times
Square Trash Vol. 2" in 2002.

In April, Gallant signed with Los Angeles-based Larry Flynt Productions to make
eight films a year - on top of the eight films a year, he produces for his own
company.

Gallant's features are not the porn stereotype. Dark and gritty, he said his
influences are early Andy Warhol and directors Sydney Pollack and Martin
Scorsese. Most of Gallant's films are based on news events, such as the Patty
Hearst kidnappings in "Atomic . . . Orgy," set to be released July 8.

"You can reach more people with porn than you can with many other mediums,"
Gallant said. "It's the new indie film."

"Ultra Vixens NYC" - a satire of Lizzie Grubman's reality-television show "PoweR
Girls" - was shot over the Memorial Day weekend in the Boys Room and Apocalypse
Lounge, two Lower East Side bars, and along downtown Manhattan streets in the
middle of the night.

"When we go to hotels, I tell the cast to dress like you're on a business trip
from Chicago - they can't look like porn stars, you don't want to attract too
much attention," Gallant said.

Redlight TV's office is a third-floor studio in Chinatown, but their movies are
made in apartments and hotels across the city. Last week, while a casting agent
next door recruited for the next Robert De Niro-directed film, Marano, 46,
fished for talent on craigslist.org and onemodelplace.com.

His star, Sativa Verte, is a young Web-design undergraduate who meets Marano's
criteria that his cast members be "bohemian, hedonist pleasure seekers."

"Our movies hark back to the MGM glory days with beautiful sets and beautiful
people," he said. His fetish feature "Alice in Footland" won the Audience Award
at New York's Cinekink Festival last year.

Marano, who once was the post-production supervisor for HBO's "Real Sex" series,
established Redlight TV in 2001. He continues to produce mainstream
documentaries separately, but porn production is about 25 percent of his work.

"People are bored with porn from the [San Fernando] Valley," he said.

"With new technology, like DVD cameras, you can shoot in really weird locations,
and New York is such a great backdrop. There are just so many strip malls and
Beverly Hills mansions you can stand, but here you have the Village, the
skyscrapers and even beaches."

Marano said scouting locations is a large part of his work, and he relies on an
agent to find people who are willing to rent their home for a day.

"They know it's for porn, and they don't mind," he said. "With one couple we
rented from, the man stuck around - I think it was because he thought we might
steal something, but I also know he liked to watch."

Porn producers said the current climate in New York may return the City the
Never Sleeps to its 1960s status as the world's smut capital, before porn
producers migrated to the West Coast for a change of scenery and lower shooting
costs.

"We love New York," said Vivid's Hirsch. "We've shot there several times and
look forward to shooting there again.

"The city has enormous energy and excitement about it. The history, the people
and the backdrops all create a unique feel that really add to the texture of a
movie."

LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ...

Impromptu "sets" for porn flicks filmed around the city:

Place: Boys Room Bar, 9 Avenue A, Lower East Side

Porn: "Ultra Vixens NYC" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: 5 women - all witches - and a man have an orgy.

*

Place: Apocalypse Lounge, 189 E. Third St., Lower East Side

Porn: "Ultra Vixens NYC" (Black Mirror Productions)

*

Place: DVD Palace, 733 Eighth Ave., Hell's Kitchen

Porn: "Ultra Vixens NYC" (Black Mirror Productions)

*

Place: Collective Unconscious Theater (now closed), 150 First Ave., Lower East
Side

Porn: "Times Square Trash Vol. 2" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: A jazz orchestra performs while a couple have sex in the balcony

*

Place: The Sherman Hotel, 302 West 47th Street

Porn: "Times Square Trash Vol. 2" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: Streetwalkers have sex, with each other and their johns.

*

Place: Mojo Guitar Shop (now closed), 102 St. Marks Pl., East Village

Porn: "Times Square Trash Vol. 2" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: Streetwalkers have more sex with johns

*

Place: Alley on 12th Street, near the corner of Washington Street

Porn: "Times Square Trash Vol. 2" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: A woman has sex against a wall with a man she just meets

*

Place: Collective Unconscious Theatre (now closed), 150 First Ave., Lower East
Side

Porn: "The Luv Generation" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: Several women use sex toys

*

Place: Collective Unconscious Theatre, 279 Church St., Tribeca

Porn: "Atomic . . . Orgy" (Black Mirror Productions)

Plot: A kidnapped woman has sex with her captors

*

Place: Central Park West penthouse

Porn: "Show and Tell" (Redlight TV)

Plot: A young woman has sex with her bridesmaid

*

Place: Hudson Street apartment, West Village

Porn: "Happy Ending" (Redlight TV)

Plot: Women act out their fantasies

*

Place: Gansevoort Hotel, 18 19th Ave., Tribeca

Porn: "Happy Ending" (Redlight TV)

Plot: Rooftop interview with clothed women who discuss their fantasies

Place: Apartment, Hudson Street, West Village

Porn: "Happy Ending" (Redlight TV)

Plot: A woman describes her fantasy is to have sex with a millionaire and then
she acts it out

Place: Penthouse apartment, Central Park West, Upper West Side

Porn: "Show and Tell" (Redlight) TV

Place: Marriott Marquis, 1535 Broadway, Times Square

Porn: Untitled (Redlight TV)

Plot: Not yet released

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - MADE IN N.Y.: Porn flicks filmed in the Apple. - Central Park West
penthouse. (Julie Stapen) - Sherman Hotel. (Spencer A. Burnett) - Gansevoort
Hotel. - Mojo Guitar Shop. (Helayne Seidman) - Marriott Marquis Hotel. (Michael
Norcia) - BOOM TIMES:Sexy starlets cruise New York City in a scene from a porn
flick by Eric Marano. (Redlight TV) - MADE IN N.Y.: Porn flicks filmed in the
Apple. - Central Park West penthouse. (Julie Stapen) - Sherman Hotel. (Spencer
A. Burnett) - Gansevoort Hotel. - Mojo Guitar Shop. (Helayne Seidman) - Marriott
Marquis Hotel. (Michael Norcia)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 5, 2005 Tuesday

PROTESTERS GET JUMP ON SUMMIT

BYLINE: DEBORAH ORIN Washington Bureau Chief

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 239 words


Violent protesters roamed the streets of Scotland's capital, Edinburgh,
yesterday and black-clad anarchists taunted police, spoiling for a fight even
before President Bush heads to the Group of Eight summit.

One man stripped naked and others came garbed as clowns in the "Clandestine
Insurgent Clown Army."

Some pelted cops with fistfuls of dirt and metal cans, while others kissed
police riot shields leaving bright lipstick marks.

The summit site where Bush will meet other G-8 leaders is 50 miles outside
Edinburgh at the exclusive five-star Gleneagles Hotel.

The hotel and its world-famous golf course are in a total security lockdown,
with 10,000 cops on standby and a no-fly zone.

It is surrounded by a 6-foot steel-mesh fence five miles around, topped with
watch towers and surveillance cameras.

The forecast calls for rain tomorrow as the summit gets under way, but fine
weather Thursday and Friday as Bush meets with the leaders of Britain, France,
Germany, Italy, Canada, Japan and Russia.

Central issues at the summit are aid for Africa and climate change. Bush has
made clear he won't agree to any kind of climate deal - like the rejected Kyoto
treaty - that he believes would hurt the U.S. economy.

Bush, who has already raised U.S. aid to Africa to triple the level of that
under President Bill Clinton, has vowed to double it, but not in the format that
some European leaders want.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GAME FACE: An Edinburgh cop snarls at protesters yesterday.   [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday

ACTING A BIT SILLY; COP-COSTUME SNIT

BYLINE: PHILIP MESSING and ANDY SOLTIS

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 352 words


The union representing film and TV actors is warning members not to carry or
wear NYPD uniforms - because of a new policy that it says puts them "at risk of
arrest."

With TV shows like "Law & Order" shot in the city, the NYPD usually grants
certain actors written permission to buy and carry the uniforms.

But "it appears the NYPD has changed its policy," said Seth Oster, a spokesman
for the Screen Actors Guild.

Not so, say the cops, claiming that it's the union that wants to change a
regulation that's been in effect "for many years."

At issue is a ban on non-cops wearing cop uniforms - to prevent stickup artists
or, nowadays, terrorists from posing as cops and to protect the NYPD logo from
commercial exploitation.

The flap became public yesterday when SAG said "the unofficial information we
have at this time" had led it to advise its members not to buy or carry NYPD
uniforms "even to jobs that require" them.

Rather than wanting the long-established policy changed, the union said it just
wants it clarified.

But Deputy Chief Michael Collins said "there's been no change in department
policy regarding police uniforms."

SAG said that it had been in discussions for "four months" with the city and
that it understood "the serious security concerns facing New York."

But a senior police official accused the union of "looking for a blanket waiver"
- and said the furor had been triggered, in part, by unidentified SAG members'
claims of having been arrested for carrying uniforms.

"When we ask about the names so we can check the arrests, they back off," the
official said.

The only incident the official could recall involved a SAG member busted in a
courtroom for carrying a fake gun - not the real NYPD uniform he had with him.

Oster declined comment on the claim of arrests.

He said the union enjoys a "very cordial relationship with the Bloomberg
administration.

"The only thing we're asking for is a clarification of whatever the city and the
NYPD believe is necessary in this climate," he said.

The mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting referred questions to the
NYPD.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 16, 2005 Friday

CLINTON A WORLD BEATER - GLOBAL FORUM ADDRESSES PLANET'S MORE DIRE WOES

BYLINE: LUKAS I. ALPERT

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 327 words


Former President Bill Clinton kicked off his global initiative yesterday by
exhorting world political and business leaders gathered in the Big Apple to make
real commitments to fix the problems plaguing the planet.

"It is more than a photo opportunity, more than business as usual," Clinton
said. "Before everyone came here, they swore to make a commitment to make a
change, and make the commitment in writing."

With that, the ex-president brought onstage several business leaders who signed
contracts to implement economic-growth initiatives in Africa.

Clinton then led a panel discussion with British Prime Minister Tony Blair,
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and King Abdullah bin Al-Hussein of Jordan.

The ambitious forum gathers 39 heads of state, 300 CEOs and numerous scholars at
the Sheraton Hotel and Towers for three days.

These movers and shakers - from South African President Thabo Mbeki to News
Corp. Chairman and New York Post Publisher Rupert Murdoch - will focus on four
key areas: fighting poverty; improving governance; understanding religion and
conflict; and addressing climate change.

The panel discussion began with a talk of spurring growth in the Gaza Strip,
which Israel recently ceded to the Palestinians.

Clinton said countries should set up an insurance program to guard
private-sector investments in the region.

There needs to be an "insurance program against terror" if business leaders are
to invest in Gaza, he said.

King Abdullah said, "We do have a major challenge to reach out to Palestinians
there, as poverty is at an all-time high.

Discussing Islam, Abdullah got a round of applause when he talked about Muslims
becoming part of the foreign countries in which they live.

"If a foreign country gives you the freedom, the respect, the safety to you as a
Muslim as it does to the rest of its citizens, then technically you owe your
loyalty and allegiance to that nation whether you're Muslim or not," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRO BONO: Bono discusses ex-President Clinton's (inset) global
initiative with Jordan's Queen Rania at the Waldorf-Astoria yesterday. [AFP /
Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE:  Bill Hoffmann, Wire Services

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 333 words


A robber marched out of a Pennsylvania bank with $1,100, then marched back in a
few minutes later and gave it back.

"He had a change of heart," said Ambridge Police Sgt. Rick Bufalini. "He told us
he knew he did wrong and he wanted to make it right . . . Too bad all the bank
robbers aren't like this!"

But it doesn't get Andre Ellis, 39, off the hook -- he's charged with robbery
and is cooling his heels in the slammer.

Three Russian men eating a bag of weird-smelling potato chips found the problem
when they reached the bottom -- the body of a fried rat.

"They realized something was wrong because of the revolting smell . . . and the
strange taste," said a spokesman for the Moscow Sanitary Center.

And yet, they went right on eating.

A professional fire eater has been given a suspended sentence for setting a
stripper's boobs ablaze.

Maria Leeb, 27, was tied to a pole in just a G-string when Marc Miszler, 22,
blew flames at her, and her breasts ignited at a lap-dance club in Augsburg,
Germany.

"I shouted at him that he was getting too close, but he didn't stop," said Leeb,
who suffered burns across her chest. Miszler was convicted of inflicting
grievous bodily harm.

Speaking of red-hot cleavage, for the woman who wants to stay warm this winter
and cut her heating bills, a lingerie maker has invented a bra that can be
heated in the microwave.

"We hope this will not only help prevent global warming but also provide a
little fashion chic," says Triumph International, which is debuting the bra in
Japan.

Men in Serbia are lining up to have electric shocks delivered to their testicles
as part of a new contraceptive treatment.

"We attach electrodes to either side of the testicles," said fertility expert
Sava Bojovic. "This stuns the sperm, effectively putting them to sleep for up to
10 days, which means couples can have sex without fear of getting pregnant."

He added, "We are hoping to have a small battery-powered version on sale in the
shops in time for Christmas."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 27, 2005 Sunday

PAGE SIX

BYLINE: Paula Froelich

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 559 words


FOOT-LONG FARE FOR PORN TRIO

IT sounded we couldn 't have made it up.An eagle-eyed spywitness breathlessly
called PAGE SIX with a supposed sighting of porn stars Heather Pink ["Juicy G
Spots "],Jesse Jane ["Busty Cops "] and Carmen Luvana at Serendipity III chowing
down on foot-long hot dogs the other day.Turned out our titillated tipster wasn
't having

a horny hallucination.We managed to get hold of Pink,who confirmed she was in
fact at the popular Upper East Side joint with her two porn star pals."We were
eating foot-longs," she told PAGE SIX 's Fernando Gil ."We were celebrating the
new company I 'm launching called Pink and Pink.It 's a porn production
company,but we 'll be

doing high-end films like Vivid [another adult film company ] because there 's
so much low-end garbage out

there these days.I bought out another adult film company that went bankrupt
called Jill Kelly Productions

and we 're using their editors and directors.Most of the shooting will be in
L.A., even though I live here in the city."

PRIME MINISTER A CHAN MAN

BRITISH Prime Minister Tony Blair is a big fan of martial-arts actor Jackie Chan
.Blair 's wife,Cherie , told Chan,"[Tony ] tells me that 'Rush Hour ' is his
favorite,," as she presented Chan with the 2005 World Diversity

Award at the Radisson Hotel in London 's Mayfair.For her own part, Cherie Blair
has gentler tastes.She told Chan,"I liked 'Around the World in 80 Days '
myself,,'" referring to the recent screen remake of the Jules Verne novel
starring Chan and British comic Steve Coogan.

SIGHTINGS

MATT Damon and his parents eating dinner at Mexican fast-food joint Burritoville
on Second Avenue ...LINDSAY Lohan jumping into the DJ booth to spin with
Samantha Ronson at Chelsea hotspot Stereo ...Art dealer Daniella Luxembourg
getting coiffed at Simadi salon on Lexington Avenue ... Jessica Alba heading to
Stanton Social

twice in the same week she also popped into Vento and downstairs club Level V
...Joan Collins getting her hair and nails done at Josephine Day Spa,the groomer
of choice for Heidi Klum and Julia Roberts ...Playboy playmate and

Maxim covergirl Victoria Silvstedt eating pasta and drinking fruit martinis at
Tre Dici .

14 WIVES CLUB

SOMEONE 'S coming to town who can give the state of Utah a polygamous run for
its money:King Mswati III of Swaziland.The African monarch,who has 14 wives,will
be among the guests flying into New York on Dec.1 for the launch of Travel
Overseas magazine and its Global Perks program.Co-hosting the soiree is Entrée
Travel Newsletter publisher Bill Tomicki .Tomicki tells us he 's paid a visit to
the king in Swaziland,and says he expects him to show up

"bare-chested,red feathers in his hair and sporting a traditional leopard-skin
loincloth."

Happy at last?

SOCIALITE Nina Griscom seems ready to walk down the aisle again.Sources on the
social scene report that Griscom - who left her husband,,Dr. Dan Baker ,three
years ago during a failed love affair with sugar baron Pepe Fanjul - has been
wearing an engagement ring lately,presumably from her hunky Argentine
boyfriend.Griscom was

plunged into social Siberia after she left Baker for the very married Fanjul,who
later dumped her to stay with his wife Emilia .But now it seems Griscom is
finally happy with her waiter-turned-real estate broker Argentine - whose

name no one can seem to remember.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - GOING ONE-ON-ONE: Cuddly couple Rosario Dawson and Jason Lewis take a
time out from the Knicks game yesterday for some sideline action. (Susan May
Tell) (s,l) - HAIRCUT PUT ON HOLD: "O.C." hottie Mischa Barton steps out of a
Beverly Hills salon last week, in the middle of getting her hair cut, to phone a
friend. (David Buchan/Mike Carrillo/Pacificcoastnews) (Metro) - LUKE WARM: Luke
Wilson dons some lumberjack duds in SoHo. (Francois Zavier Lamperti/INF-GOff)
(Metro) - SCARF FACE: That's Annie Lennox bundled up in a giant scarf yesterday
in the city.(Arnaldo Magnani) (s,l) - GOING ONE-ON-ONE: Cuddly couple Rosario
Dawson and Jason Lewis take a time out from the Knicks game yesterday for some
sideline action. (Susan May Tell) (s,l) - HAIRCUT PUT ON HOLD: "O.C." hottie
Mischa Barton steps out of a Beverly Hills salon last week, in the middle of
getting her hair cut, to phone a friend. (David Buchan/Mike
Carrillo/Pacificcoastnews) (Metro) - LUKE WARM: Luke Wilson dons some lumberjack
duds in SoHo. (Francois Zavier Lamperti/INF-GOff) (Metro)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 26, 2005 Tuesday

NY POST WEB SITE SIGN-UP

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 163 words


The New York Post's Online Edition will be launching free online registration on
Tues., May 3.

The Web site will now ask readers to register in order to access its selection
of articles, functions and features.

Once a reader registers, they get access to Post articles on the site and to
features such as NYP/Home Real Estate listings. It will also be easier to sign
up for The Post's newsletters and sweepstakes.

"Requiring online registration was a decision driven by both the current
competitive climate and the opportunity to better serve our readers," said Geoff
Booth, The Post's vice president and general manager.

"The information collected will also help the Web site develop more relevant
content and features."

Many major newspapers in the U.S., including The New York Times, Wall Street
Journal and Los Angeles Times, require some form of registration or subscription
to their Web sites.

Readers can e-mail questions about the change to: onlinehelp@nypost.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE POST Online edition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 7, 2005 Tuesday

JOBS REPORT HINTS AT WEAKENING ECONOMY

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 634 words


IT is time for the employment charade to end.

The Labor Department padded its May employment figures with an extraordinary
207,000 positions that probably don't exist - and it still could get only very
modest job growth for the month.

The only conclusion can be that the real economy - outside the government's
guesstimate for companies it hopes and prays are being created - is beginning to
sour.

The worst part of this game is that Washington is making dangerous assumptions
that disguise from policy makers - not to mention you and me - what is really
going on with the economy. Other economic statistics, as well as corporate
anecdotes, are already pointing to a slowdown.

The Federal Reserve, for one, will soon be making decisions about future
interest rate increases based on faulty information.

The total May growth of just 78,000 jobs means that the true number of positions
available probably shrunk by about 129,000, thanks in large part to layoffs,
mergers and weakening business conditions.

An actual number is impossible to come by because the extra 207,000 jobs added
for the birth of new companies are before some adjustments. But those
adjustments probably only change the calculation by a few thousand jobs.

As I've been saying, this calculation for the birth and death of companies -
wholly speculative on the part of the Labor Department - has been driving the
overall labor numbers up and down for more than a year.

Even if you accept the practice of guessing at these new company jobs, there is
still a big question as to whether the government is adding too many,
considering that business conditions today are easily worse than they were in
2004.

And all of the guesstimates for this year have topped 2004 levels.

The government started 2005 by deducting 280,000 jobs from the January count for
companies it believed - but also couldn't prove - had suddenly ceased operation.

But then it added 100,000 questionable jobs to the February total, tacked on
another 179,000 in March and 257,000 in April before picking up the extra
207,000 May jobs.

That adds up to a net gain of 463,000 jobs for the year so far - out of the
total 870,000 new position officially reported.

These mystery jobs are calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in something
called the Current Employment Statistics Net Birth/Death Model.

Here's how they do it. In May the government assumed that enough new companies
were begun in the leisure and hospitality industry to have added 75,000 jobs.
That's on top of any seasonal hiring by leisure companies that were already in
business before the month.

Experts had been predicting job growth of 180,000 in May. Because of the
Birth/Death plug factor I thought the figure would be even stronger.

The fact that it wasn't bodes badly for the whole economy and throws interest
rates expectations for a loop.

Right before the job number came out Richard Fisher, new head of the Dallas
Federal Reserve, hinted that the Fed might soon be finished increasing rates.

While it's unlikely someone of Fisher's low seniority would be tipping off the
Fed's thinking, his comments might be prescient.

Alan Greenspan will have to decide late this month whether to raise interest
rates for the ninth time in a year. The last eight hikes have been a total
failure - the rates at which people borrow money have actually dropped even as
the Fed has been encouraging them to rise.

The Fed is now boxed in and when the slowdown in the economy becomes more
obvious Greenspan will only be able to cut the irrelevant fed funds rate. He
won't be able to stimulate borrowers, who have had ample opportunity to borrow
money if they desired to.

No matter what the Fed decides, this much is clear: It and us deserve to know
what is really going on in the labor market.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 17, 2005 Friday

KPMG REPRIEVE - FEDS UNLIKELY TO BRING CRIMINAL CHARGES VS. FIRM

BYLINE: RICHARD WILNER

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 711 words


KPMG is likely to avoid a death sentence.

The huge accounting firm, under investigation for the sale of phony tax
shelters, will likely get socked with a huge fine and may have to operate with a
court-appointed supervisor - but will not be indicted, accounting industry
professionals said yesterday.

"There's no way that they're going to put KPMG out of business. That's just not
happening," Robert Willens, accounting industry analyst at Lehman Brothers,
said.

A criminal indictment is a death knell for corporations and, in fact, in 2002,
ended the life of accounting giant Arthur Andersen - and cost tens of thousands
of innocent employees their job.

But since then, the political climate in Washington has changed and led
prosecutors to enter into deferred prosecution agreements, a sort of
two-strikes-and you're-out policy.

Under those agreements, companies promise to toe the line - or risk criminal
charges. Meanwhile, jobs are protected.

KPMG, one of the Big Four accounting firms, has been trying to squeeze out from
under a federal probe for 16 months. The alleged illegal activity took place
from 1996 to 2002.

Most recently, federal prosecutors in New York have added obstruction-of-justice
charges to the probe, according to a published report, thus raising the stakes
for KPMG's legal team.

To try and convince prosecutors that it was serious about change, KPMG went on
the offensive yesterday.

"KPMG takes full responsibility for the unlawful conduct by former KPMG partners
and we deeply regret that it occurred," the firm said in a statement.

The admission is a much-needed first step to convince prosecutors not to indict.

In the last six months, insurance firms AIG and Marsh & McLennan Cos. both
issued mea culpas as a requirement to sidestep criminal indictments. In
addition, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Time Warner Inc., Computer Associates, PNC
Financial Services and AmSouth Bancorp have recently hammered out similar deals.

Jacob Frenkel, a former prosecutor, said the KPMG statement is a perfect step
toward side-stepping criminal charges.

KPMG is "taking one of the most important steps for avoiding prosecution,"
Frenkel said. "They are trying to move beyond what occurred."

The Justice Department is expected to give KPMG one more week to plead its case
before top officials.

David Kelley, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, who is heading up the probe, is
said to be ready to drop the hammer on criminal charges, according to the story
in the Wall St. Journal, which reported on the negotiations yesterday.

But after the U.S. Supreme Court two weeks ago overturned the indictment of
Arthur Andersen, many accounting industry consultants feel Kelley will more than
likely take the civil enforcement route.

"You've got to believe that after the Supreme Court decision, there would be a
lot of caution taken before the government would allow another firm to
potentially implode," said Paul Schmidt, a former KPMG partner who left the firm
last year because of concern over the probe.

KPMG made it clear in its statement that the tax shelters under question are no
longer sold by the firm and that its current partners have changed business
practices. The former partners who put together the tax shelters and then acted
to cover up their tracks will not be covered by any KPMG agreement with
prosecutors.

With Post wire services

ANDERSEN FACTOR

KPMG may dodge a fatal bullet,if the feds choose to settle instead of pushing
for criminal proceedings similar to actions that snuffed former rival Arthur
Andersen.

TAXING TIMELINE:

*  July 2002: Justice Dept.sues KPMG to force it to report tax shelter info -
including client names - to the IRS..

*  Nov.2003: IRS declares KPMG 's tax shelters abusive.

*  Dec.2003: Regulators accuse KPMG of stalling IRS probe. Justice calls an
"illusion" firm 's argument that it

didn 't push the abusive shelters.

*  Jan.2004: KPMG says it will replace top three tax-practice execs.

*  Feb.2004: Feds launch criminal probe.

*  June 2004: IRS says abusive tax shelter produced $1.7B in savings for 29
firms,including Delta Air Lines and Clear Channel,from 1999 to 2001

*  Yesterday: Firm confirms it is negotiating with Justice to resolve the
investigation into its sale of the abusive shelters.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - Protesters in 2002 seeking in vain to keep Andersen afloat. (CP) -
KPMG headquarters. (Getty Images) - Protesters in 2002 seeking in vain to keep
Andersen afloat. (CP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 26, 2005 Monday

SEARCH 'N' SELL - ADVERTISERS HOPE TO GET LUCKY WITH GOOGLE

BYLINE: HOLLY M. SANDERS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 532 words


After reinventing online advertising and shaking up traditional media companies,
Google wants to be partners with the giants of Madison Avenue.

Ad agencies still act as gatekeepers for big-spending clients - Fortune 500
companies such as P&G, Coca-Cola and GM - by controlling much of the overall
branding strategy, as well as the creative work and ad buying.

Increasingly, though, major advertisers are rolling out plans to increase their
online ad spending, shifting away from the TV, radio and print ads - and leaving
agencies scrambling to adapt.

As the climate changes, Google and competitors such as Yahoo! are reaching out
to Madison Avenue to insure more advertisers and their agencies embrace the Web.

Google, in particular, dominates the fastest-growing area of online advertising
known as paid search - those "sponsored" blue links that run down the sides of
Web pages.

The science to figuring out when to run ads and what search terms to buy gives
Google an opportunity to educate the agencies.

By becoming experts in this relatively new and rapidly evolving field, they can
benefit their clients and grab a chunk of the ad dollars flowing online.

"We really want to educate agencies on how the platform works," said Patrick
Keane, head of advertising sales strategy for Google. "We want to make them
experts in search and contextual advertising."

In the past year, Google has held more than 100 training sessions at agencies,
such as Carat's Fusion unit and Foote Cone & Belding's FCBi, to help them better
understand the mechanics of search marketing.

Much of the focus is on Google's "AdWords," the program advertisers use to
create ads and link them to specific search terms. In addition, Google has set
up support teams so that agencies can call around the clock with questions.

David Roth, the director of search marketing at Carat Fusion, said Google holds
quarterly sessions and is in frequent contact with his team, helping them stay
on top of the field.

"Compared to some of the bigger shops, we are fairly advanced," he said. "Our
search department is staffed with people who have long-standing relationships
with Google."

Another tangible sign of Google wooing the agencies is its growing involvement
in ad industry events, such as Advertising Week, the annual New York gathering
of the industry's best and brightest that starts today.

After taking almost no part last year, Google has jumped in with both feet this
time around by sponsoring several events, participating in others and even
holding its own panel, titled "Google: Building Brands in the Consideration
Economy".

It may seem strange to see Google's colorful logo alongside the annual parade of
classic advertising icons, like the Jolly Green Giant and the Doublemint Twins,
but it sends the right message to Madison Avenue.

"They too can be working with their clients to 'Google'," said eMarketer senior
analyst David Hallerman. "They haven't been disenfransiched from the search
marketing."

----

New faces, new places

Google is pushing hard to develop stronger ties to New York's biggest ad
agencies, a key move to keep its Internet empire expanding.

Google shares: Close $3.99 (+$315.36)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Madison Av.  [Bloomberg]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 11, 2005 Tuesday

DON'T PLAY IT STRAIGHT - HOLLYWOOD'S HOTTEST ACTORS EXPLORE GAY ROLES IN SEARCH
OF OSCAR GOLD

BYLINE: LOU LUMENICK

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1221 words


'IT scared the hell out of me," Heath Ledger recently admitted about the idea of
playing a gay cowboy in "Brokeback Mountain," one of the season's most eagerly
awaited films. "I didn't want to kiss Jake Gyllenhaal."

Jake Gyllenhaal, who plays Ledger's lover in the epic romantic tragedy that
spans two decades, said he got a lot of teasing from his buddies.

"They're all like, 'Dude, you're gonna kiss a guy,'" Gyllenhaal told reporters
at last month's Venice Film Festival, where "Brokeback Mountain" took the top
prize and the Dec. 9 release emerged as a leading contender for the Best Picture
Oscar.

"But it's not about that for me. It's about how impossible love can be
sometimes, and I can relate to that. As well as   that, every man goes through a
period of thinking they're attracted to another guy."

Ledger and Gyllenhaal have plenty of company this fall, with well-known straight
actors portraying gay characters - and often attracting Oscar buzz - in at least
eight high-profile films between now and the end of the year.

Philip Seymour Hoffman plays the flamboyantly gay author Truman Capote in the
just-opened "Capote," while Johnny Depp reportedly has his first on-screen
lip-lock with a man as the bisexual poet John Wilmot in the 17th-century period
drama "Libertine," due Nov. 18.

Both actors will be receiving Oscar campaigns, as will the Irish actor Cillian
Murphy, turning from villainy in "Red Eye" to a spectacular turn as a drag queen
who has a violent brush with the Irish Republican Army in "Breakfast on Pluto"
(Nov. 16). "Pluto" is directed by Neil Jordan, who's already parlayed
sexual-confusion elements into six Oscar nominations with "The Crying Game."

In more mainstream movies, the veteran actor Val Kilmer plays his first gay
character - a private eye named Gay Perry - in the action-movie spoof "Kiss
Kiss, Bang Bang" (Oct. 21) while of the eight main characters in the movie
version of the Broadway musical "Rent" (due Nov. 23), two are HIV-positive gay
men (played by Wilson Jermaine Heredia and Jesse L. Martin) and two are lesbians
(Idina Menzel and Tracie Thoms)

"Clearly this is the gayest year-end at the movies since Rock Hudson's heyday,"
quips Village Voice columnist and gay-film historian Michael Musto. "And it
makes up for this year's bland gay characters in movies like 'Monster-in-Law'
and dumb gay jokes in 'The Wedding Crashers.'"

"With gay themes so prominently on the air and in the papers, it makes sense for
them to be on-screen, too."

Some industry observers believe the $13 million "Brokeback Mountain," will be a
landmark test of just how much gay activity - the lovers indulge in sex as well
as passionate kissing - mainstream audiences can tolerate.

"The response so far is a lot warmer than I expected when I started making it,"
director Ang Lee told The Post.

"People are responding to it more as a love story than a 'gay cowboy movie.' I
think we can find broader audiences than strictly art houses in the cities, but
as for the small towns, I'm scared to even think of it."

Christine Vachon, who has been producing gay-oriented movies for a decade
through Killer Films, finds it significant that an increasing number of them
have higher budgets and are being made by established directors who are not gay,
like Lee and Jordan.

"I think gender and sexual identification is endlessly fascinating and we're
making some great movies that deal with these things," said Vachon, who was on
the jury at the Venice Film Festival and is producing another Capote film, "And
Every Word Is True," due out next fall.

"It's a weird time," she added. "I feel that every time I turn on the TV, it's
four back-to-back episodes of 'Will & Grace' or 'The L Word' - at the same time
the country seems to be focusing on preventing gay marriage with a voraciousness
that I haven't seen in a long time."

Irish director Jordan theorizes the boom in gay-oriented movies may be a
reaction to "the repressive political climate" in the United States.

"These are really crazy times," he said. "And actors are always looking to be
stretched, given the opportunity to construct an identity for themselves."

American actor Kip Pardue sees it as filmmakers going where the most interesting
stories are.

"I'm not gay, but playing these characters is really liberating," said Pardue,
who has appeared in mainstream movies like "Remember the Titans."

He plays an adopted gay man dying of AIDS who is searching for his birth mother
in the art-house flick "Loggerheads," opening Friday.

"Being a young actor getting sent a lot of scripts, I find that a lot of great
roles are gay characters - the political and socioeconomic conflicts they're
feeling are often so much deeper than the conflicts facing straight people."

It's a big change from 20 years ago, when Michael Douglas, Harrison Ford and Tom
Berenger all declined to play the leads in what was regarded as the first
attempt at a mainstream film about gay men, "Making Love."

The parts were taken by Harry Hamlin and Michael Ontkean, whose film careers
hardly prospered afterwards.

Will Smith famously refused to kiss a man in "Six Degrees of Separation" a
decade ago, but since then straight actors like Tom Hanks, Tobey Maguire and
many other male stars have puckered up with guys.

"I think what really scares most actors personally about gay roles is the fear
that they'll be turned on," said Peter Sarsgaard, who was Oscar-nominated for
playing a bisexual in last year's "Kinsey" and who plays a gay screenwriter in
"The Dying Gaul" (Nov. 4). "America is pathologically uptight about sex, so it
stands to reason actors will be, too," he told Variety. "I've been doing nothing
but kissing men in movies lately. It's acting."

Craig Lucas, the openly gay playwright who is making his directing debut with
"The Dying Gaul" welcomes this wave of films.

"I'm astonished and pleased beyond saying," said Lucas, whose film also stars
Campbell Scott as a bisexual Hollywood producer who sleeps with Sarsgaard's
character.

"It's time a wide variety of movies reflected the variety of lesbian, gay and
transsexual lives. We've come a long way from 'The Boys in the Band,' where the
problem was homosexuality itself, and 'Philadelphia,' which was really a movie
about homophobia."

And gay-oriented movies - even the smaller ones - are reaching a wider audience
than a few years ago.

"There was a time when you could make a movie and just market it to gay
audiences and not even bother trying to cross over if you made it for the right
price," said Vachon, citing her early films like "Swoon" and "Poison."

Pardue said when he made his screen debut as a gay teen in "But I'm a
Cheerleader" (1999), "that film didn't have a chance of getting released
nationwide. 'Loggerheads' will be in 50 markets in November, which is
incredible."

Lucas thinks straight audiences are gradually being more tolerant of gay
characters on-screen.

"When I saw 'The Talented Mr. Ripley' at my local theater in Carmel, N.Y., a few
years ago, the adolescent boys booed and got up and walked out when they
discovered their boy Matt [Damon] was playing a fag," Lucas recalled.

"But when I went to see 'Alexander' there last year, nobody in the audience
batted an eyelash when Alexander and his boyfriend were making goo-goo eyes at
each other."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Heath Ledger (left) and Jake Gyllenhaal are cowboys who fall in love
and carry on a decades-long affair in Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain."  [EPA]
-Cillian Murphy flirts with the IRA in Neil Jordan's "Breakfast on Pluto."
-Philip Seymour Hoffman is flamboyant in "Capote." -Val Kilmer is a gay
detective mentoring Robert Downey Jr. in "Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang." -Tracie Thoms
and Idina Menzel reprise their roles as lesbian lovers in the big-screen version
of the hit musical "Rent." -Heath Ledger (left) and Jake Gyllenhaal are cowboys
who fall in love and carry on a decades-long affair in Ang Lee's "Brokeback
Mountain."  [EPA] -Cillian Murphy flirts with the IRA in Neil Jordan's
"Breakfast on Pluto." -Philip Seymour Hoffman is flamboyant in "Capote." -Val
Kilmer is a gay detective mentoring Robert Downey Jr. in "Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday

PAT SHOWDOWN JUST FIRST TEST FOR COLTS

BYLINE: BRIAN COSTELLO

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 481 words


FOXBOROUGH - When the Colts' schedule was released, everyone circled last
night's game in New England as the team's biggest test. While that may be true,
it is far from being their only test.

The Colts, who entered last night's game at 7-0, are entering the meaty portion
of their schedule. Before last night, they had faced only one team with a
winning record - division foe Jacksonville. Of their eight remaining games,
though, five come against teams with a winning record.

"All we are is off to a good start," Colt quarterback Peyton Manning said last
week. "We put ourselves in a good position for the first seven games we've
played, but we knew after this bye week the kind of stretch of football we were
going to have and the teams we were playing.

"So this will really tell the tale what kind of team we are, what kind of team
we have."

In other words, before anyone starts comparing these Colts to the undefeated '72
Dolphins, they will need to prove they can beat some tough teams.

Their first seven opponents have a combined record of 19-38, and three of them
are in last place in their divisions. Their next eight opponents (after the
Patriots) have a combined record of 34-33, and two of them are in first place.

The Colts will face those two first-place teams - the Bengals and Seahawks - on
the road, away from their climate-controlled home-field advantage.

"Obviously, you look at the record and say, 'The Colts haven't played those
dominating teams,' but every team is going to have the opportunity to play those
same teams," Colt defensive end Dwight Freeney said.

"So regardless of when you play them, either it's a win or loss when you get
them."

This season, the Colts' defense has finally caught up to its offense. It's no
longer just Manning, wide receiver Marvin Harrison and running back Edgerrin
James running roughshod over opponents. In four of the team's seven wins, it
held the opponent to fewer than 10 points.

The defensive emergence has been credited to the disruptive force of Freeney,
who has six sacks. He has gotten help from linemate Robert Mathis, who was tied
with San Francisco's Bryant Young for the league lead with eight sacks.
Linebacker Cato June has also taken a starring role with five interceptions,
second-most in the NFL.

"We have a number of guys who are in the same positions for another year in the
system," Colt coach Tony Dungy said. "They understand it a little better and
therefore they are playing faster and playing better. ... We have our
improvement in a lot of cases from not making changes, but from individual
players playing better."

That defense will be tested in the upcoming weeks. Three of their final eight
opponents are ranked in the NFL top 10 in total offense, including Seattle,
which is No. 1. Before last night, St. Louis was the only potent offense the
Colts had faced.

brian.costello@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 24, 2005 Friday

YANKEES, METS FEEL THE HEAT - BOMBERS FIGHT TO STAY IN RACE

BYLINE: GEORGE KING

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 122

LENGTH: 564 words


The Mets aren't the Red Sox, so right away the passion in the Yankees' clubhouse
doesn't elevate the way it does when the players are asked about an upcoming
series against their blood rivals.

After all, Yankees-Red Sox is one of the best rivalries in sports. Yet when the
Mets invade Yankee Stadium tonight for the second set of three regular-season
Subway Series tilts, it's clear the men in gray aren't just another team.

"It does mean something, New York against New York," Gary Sheffield said. "You
have Yankees fans and Mets fans and it becomes a hostile environment. The
environment brings good baseball. The ballgames are always good."

With the Yankees teetering on the brink of falling into deep trouble in the AL
East, they play host to the Mets, a team in danger of dropping off the NL East's
radar screen. So for each there is more at stake than Big Apple bragging rights.

"The Stadium will be packed," said Jorge Posada, a veteran of Yankees-Mets
meetings. "The atmosphere is like the postseason but not quite. We are playing
the Mets, but I approach it like every game. We want to do well against them. We
face Pedro [Martinez tonight]. The atmosphere helps you play."

Ah, Pedro. The previous time the Yankees saw him they beat the Mets, 5-3, on May
22, but Martinez was his usual effective self against the Yankees. In seven
innings he allowed one run and four hits, and didn't figure in the decision.

Working the Stadium for the first time since Game 7 of last year's ALCS when he
was a Red Sox, Martinez can expect to hear "Who's Your Daddy?!" from the moment
he warms up.

According to Sheffield, Martinez adds to the electrifying atmosphere.

"Anytime he comes here something happens," Sheffield said. "Everybody waits for
something he does or might do."

What the Yankees need to do is match the weekend series in May at Shea when they
won two of three. Anything less and they likely will fall further back than the
five games they remained behind the Orioles after losing to the Devil Rays, 9-4,
last night.

That's why to Mariano Rivera, the Mets might as well be the Royals.

"They are just another opponent," Rivera said. "We have to win the games. During
those three days there is a lot of excitement from the fans, but at the end of
three days it's three games."

To Tanyon Sturtze, a Massachusetts native, the Mets don't raise the anxiety like
the Red Sox do.

"I don't think [Subway Series games] are any more important than the game we
play [last night]," Sturtze said. "It's not like it's Boston."

Yet it's not K.C., either.

"It's a strange rivalry," Joe Torre said. "It's all about beating the team over
there, but they are trying to win the NL East and we are trying to win the AL
East. The games count in the standings, but we don't get closer to them by
beating them. The fans get a kick out of it and the players, too."

---

What Yanks are saying

'The last Subway Series was my first and I enjoyed it very much. It's fun,
playing for bragging rights, and everybody was very interested in it around
here.' - Robinson Cano

'I've got things I need to work on, so I haven't given much thought to the Mets.
But it should be an exciting series.' - Sean Henn

'Even when we played [the Mets] in spring training, it was like the seventh game
of the World Series. [George Steinbrenner] sent word down: 'We gotta win this
game at all costs.' - Goose Gossage

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Robinson Cano; Goose Gossage -SUBWAY SLIDE: Hideki Matsui scores
around Mike Piazza in this season's previous Subway Series. Yankees and Mets
meet again tonight, starting three-game series at Stadium. [Anthony J Causi]
-Robinson Cano; Goose Gossage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 3, 2005 Sunday

MADONNA & CHILD' A BLAST FROM PAST

BYLINE: PATRICK GALLAHUE and DAN AQUILANTE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 301 words


Madonna stole the show at rock's global goodwill gala in London yesterday,
serenading the poster child for the first Live Aid in 1985.

The Material Mom sang a song to Birhan Woldu, who was a malnourished Ethiopian
child when she appeared in heartbreaking video footage of the 1985 famine.

A now-healthy Woldu, 24, was introduced by Irish rocker Bob Geldof, who
organized both the first event and this year's 10 shows across four continents.

"See this little girl," Geldof shouted to the audience.

"She had 10 minutes to live . . . Don't let them tell us this doesn't work. See
this beautiful woman," he said, introducing Woldu, now a grown woman and student
of agriculture in Ethiopia.

Madonna then took the stage, yelling, "Are you ready to start a revolution? Are
you ready to change history?"

With her arm around Woldu, Madonna sang "Like a Prayer" to 200,000 screaming
fans in Hyde Park. About halfway through the song, Madonna let go of Woldu's
hand and the Ethiopian visitor wandered offstage.

It was one of the high points in a show that featured U2 front man Bono
performing a duet of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" with Paul
McCartney, and a reunion of Pink Floyd after 24 years apart.

Woldu flew into London earlier this week and brought Geldof a gift of coffee
beans from home, according to the British newspaper The Sun.

"When someone comes to your house in Ethiopia, you offer them coffee as a warm
welcome," she told the newspaper. "I wanted to remind him of my country and make
him happy."

She was undaunted at the concert among so many celebrities - perhaps because the
only singer she'd heard of was Madonna.

"I had only heard of Madonna," Woldu said. "But I have been watching TV in my
hotel and am looking forward to seeing all the stars."

With Maxine Shen and Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LIVE & ALIVE:<BD- Madonna hugs Birhan Woldu, a sad poster child (inset)
for '85 Live Aid.  [EPA; CBC]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday

OIL BARREN - 'SYRIANA' OFFERS A COMPLEX, CORRUPT TALE OF ENERGY MOGULS

BYLINE: SARA STEWART

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 83

LENGTH: 523 words


WHEN taking on the oil industry, it's best to begin at the end, says Stephen
Gaghan While most political thrillers

end with a big reveal - "It was big oil! It was the military complex!" - the
director of "Syriana" made that his starting point.

"I was very steeped in '70s conspiracy thrillers," says the screenwriter and
director, "and I was thinking, how interesting that the story would always go
along to the end, and at the last moment, deus ex machina - fade out."

Starring George Clooney, Matt Damon, Jeffrey Wright and Chris Cooper, "Syriana,"
out Wednesday, exposes the culprits right from the opening credits.

Interweaving several complex story lines, Gaghan paints a grim portrait of the
relationship between oil industry titans and the global sprawl of workers,
politicians and consumers whose lives have become dependent on fuel, plastics,
petro-chemicals and the profits they generate. It's a form of codependency that
recalls Gaghan's last screenplay,

2000's drug-trade drama "Traffic."

Which is no coincidence.

"I'd been thinking about this user-dealer analogy," he says. "If you're hanging
with the dealer in his apartment, and he's flowing you the good stuff, and maybe
his kids are in the corner, malnourished and watching some violent

movie - you're not going to hand that guy a parenting manual."

That is to say few have challenged oil men to clean up their act, and won. In
"Syriana," oil companies practice the ultimate form of laissez-faire capitalism
- and Americans turn their heads as long as gas is cheap.

"Corruption is what keeps us safe and warm!" bellows a conservative senator,
responding to a lawyer who suggests there's been criminal behavior at the
fictional Connex/Killen oil company. With more than a little trepidation, Gaghan
spent a year researching his story, talking to oil traders, CIA analysts, arms
dealers and extremist Islamic groups.

He used his lowly screenwriter status as a shield.

"Nobody takes a screenwriter seriously," he says. "We're just slightly beneath
people who compose press releases. So I was this hilarious, farcical human out
asking questions - and everybody seemed to want to tell their story."

One of his first trips, to meet with leaders of Lebanon's militant Hezbollah
party, quickly turned frightening.

Arranged by Bob Baer - the former CIA agent Clooney's character is based on -
the summit progressed in a fairly routine manner for the group, but not for an
inexperienced writer. Gaghan was hooded, hustled into a waiting

car and driven to an undisclosed location.

"Their demeanor was not, 'We're going to do something bad to you,' " he says,
"but there was definitely 10 minutes when I was thinking, 'You're so out of your
depth, man. You are Mr. Magoo.' "

The many people Gaghan talked to all seemed to realize that their choices were
sometimes wrong. Yet they rationalized their actions by invoking the necessity
of providing for loved ones."

"You find people making morally questionable decisions with an asterisk," Gahgan
says. "In the back of their minds, they're saying, 'It's for my family. I don't
feel good about this, but my family is depending on me.' "

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MY WALLET'S HERE SOMEWHERE: In "Syriana," George Clooney (center) plays
a CIA agent and Matt Damon (below) is an oil trader.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 26, 2005 Saturday

THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS - FAIRY TALES GET WINDOW TREATMENT THIS HOLIDAY

BYLINE: BARBARA HOFFMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1022 words


TRADITION - in the form of fairy tales, wintry scenes and carols - looms large
in this year's holiday windows. Gone, at least this season, are the movie
tie-ins that preoccupied holiday windows past. Granted, it would have been
interesting to see, say, what festive spin Bloomingdale's - which mystified us
last year with its "Phantom of the Opera" Christmas - might have put on Johnny
Depp's "Libertine." Or maybe a 50 Cent-themed, "Get Happy or Die Tryin'"?

The best displays not only dazzle, but also divert us from the stress of the
season - and the incessant clanging of Salvation Army bells. They take us back
to a simpler time, when we were drawing up wish lists instead of "to-do" ones.

This year, Lord & Taylor gets our highest rating, thanks to exquisitely detailed
scenes that, on a bitterly cold afternoon, kept a crowd of onlookers of all ages
spellbound.

Elsewhere on the avenue - Fifth Avenue, that is - look for the giant, crystal
snowflake suspended between Bulgari and Tiffany at 57th Street (it's slightly
bigger than the baubles in the window at Cartier); the '50s retro feel of Mickey
Mouse and gang at the Disney Store; and that yuletime perennial: the trumpeting
angels at Rockefeller Center.

So bundle up and head out - and let the snowflakes guide you to the most
wonderful windows.

LORD & TAYLOR

424 Fifth Ave. (at 38th Street)

document.write('');

THEME: Fairy tales

DRAWS: Elegant as always, L&T devotes six windows to fairy tales, each one
animated and exquisitely detailed. There's Jack swinging away at an enormous
beanstalk, Goldilocks examining the beds and porridge bowls of the Three Bears,
a Princess atop a pile of multicolored mattresses (and a pea), and the
lesser-known "12 Dancing Princesses" kicking up their heels. All this, plus
nicely modulated music by Mozart and snatches of "Copenhagen" (Hans Christian
Andersen's birthplace and theme song).

DRAWBACKS: The occasionally ungrammatical text summaries ("Down to their last
penny, Jack was forced to sell the family cow.") The bears in "Goldilocks" look
a bit like the Berenstain variety, though some people, especially the under-4
set, might consider that a plus.

RATING: 4 STARS

MACY'S

34th Street at Herald Square

THEME: "It's Christmas Time in the City" and "Miracle on 34th Street"

DRAWS: In each window along Herald Square, a big book opens and out pops a scene
of the city at yuletime: the Radio City Rockettes (accompanied, we're happy to
see, by a live orchestra), skating at Rockefeller Center, the ball drop in Times
Square and, of course, Macy's itself. Once again, the windows along 34th Street
are filled with gorgeously animated if sparsely narrated scenes of that
cinematic chestnut, "Miracle on 34th Street," complete with the famous
beard-pulling scene.

DRAWBACKS: The pop-up scenes are as flat and as crudely drawn as Archie comic
books. And "Silver Bells" gets a little old when it's repeated ad infinitum,
even when it's played in a minor key to accompany "The Nutcracker." What - they
couldn't afford Tchaikovsky?

RATING: 2 1/2 STARS

BARNEYS

660 Madison Ave. (at 61st Street)

THEME: "Have a Royal Holiday!"

DRAWS: Leave it to Simon Doonan to plunk William, Britain's heir to the throne,
on a toilet. In the same window, Charles sits in a bathtub cradling a box of
minoxidil and a horsey-toothed Camilla holds center stage looking better dressed
than usual (courtesy of Lanvin), and holding a can labeled Consort for Men.
Other windows feature variations on a theme: portraits of the "Label Kings and
Queens" (Bill Blass, Halston, Pauline Trigere); Marie "Let them eat cake!"
Antoinette; and a salute to those hailing from Queens: Al Roker, Cyndi Lauper,
50 Cent and Fran Drescher.

DRAWBACKS: How can you give a shout-out to Queens but not Brooklyn, the Borough
of Kings? Are Barbra Streisand and all chopped liver?

RATING: 3 STARS

SAKS FIFTH AVENUE

611 Fifth Ave. (at 48th Street)

THEME: Holiday snowflake spectacular

DRAWS: Saks takes an ambitious departure from its usual book tie-ins to
glamorously illustrate those time-honored values: Beauty, Wisdom and, as the
press release has it, "the beauty in diversity and the rewards of global
harmony," accompanied, aptly enough, by some New Age-y music. Loved the
diversity salute: dolls of all colors on their backs on a snowflake - very
Benetton meets the June Taylor Dancers. In another window: a heavenly spinning
globe, with strikingly different scenes at each pole.

DRAWBACKS: Beautiful, but strangely uninvolving. Those hobbit-like creatures
look a little creepy.

RATING: 3 STARS

BLOOMINGDALE'S

Lexington Avenue at 59th Street

THEME: "Imagine"

DRAWS: Lots of glitter and glamour in these scenes taken from classic fairy
tales, sumptuously costumed by Donald Sanders (a prot[#x201a]g[#x201a] of
Broadway's William Ivey Long). Loved the big fat genie from "Aladdin," the
slightly metrosexual-looking prince in "Sleeping Beauty," and - best of all -
the wolf hungrily eyeing Little Red Riding Hood. Rapunzel, her long ponytail
dangling, her gown suspiciously full, seems a little ... pregnant.

DRAWBACKS: Except for the fluttering butterflies in "The Frog Prince" scene,
there's little here that moves. All those lavishly made-up mannequins seem more
"Snow Queen" than "Cinderella": It's hard to warm up to these windows.

RATING: 2 1/2 STARS

BERGDORF GOODMAN

754 Fifth Ave. (between 57th and 58th streets)

THEME: "As I Dream by the Fire"

DRAWS: Linda Fargo - BG's go-to gal for the most luxurious, densely plotted
windows in town - does it again. Inspired by the lyrics of holiday songs (i.e.
"Do you see what I see?"), an emu goes eye-to-eye with a model wearing a skirt
of the same feathers in a window filled with enough mushrooms, disembodied hands
and shells to give Freud a field day. Other windows play with a single color or
pattern - be it black and white or Delft - and all are gorgeous.

DRAWBACKS: There's little here for any but the most sophisticated children (not
even Eloise would stand still long); a little music would go a big way toward
drowning out some of the city's most insistent bell-ringers.

RATING: 3 1/2 STARS

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Christmas window displays.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 31 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday

FAKE OVER - HOW TO THROW A CLASSY PARTY, EVEN IF YOU RE A SCHLUB; DO YOURSELF
SOME PARTY FAVORS

BYLINE: DANICA LO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 1390 words


FASHION designer Michelle Siwy once boxed up all the junk in her apartment -
including her dirty laundry - stuck a ribbon on and called it a Christmas
present from her fiance when her parents visited for the holidays.

When you live in 300 square feet with hardly enough nooks to store your shoes,
there aren't many options when it comes to hiding your - literal or metaphorical
- dirty laundry.

And when it comes to living beyond means - or at least looking like you do - New
Yorkers take the cake. Fabulous girls totter around town dressed in Marc Jacobs
and toting their Vuitton, but head home to a shared fifth-floor walk- up; pretty
young boys in Armani will spring for rounds of drinks at Marquee, but hop on the
train back to their parents' house in Brooklyn.

But as soon as those house-party Evites go out, panic sets in. You don't want
people to know you live the way you do - cruddy couch, trashy magazines, ramen
in the fridge. How do you go from shabby to chic in a few hours flat? Better
yet, how do you stage your home to look decidedly highbrow? Don't worry. We've
got your answers.

Turn the page for more tips on faking your way to a smashing holiday party.

Kitchen confidential

* Get stocked: Clear out your Ramen, sardines, Miller Lite and canned pasta
products. Instead, turn your fridge into a designer water den. Borba's
"prescription" low-calorie water ($2.50/bottle at sephora.com) - that aids in
curing

everything from cellulite to dry skin to acne - will convince your friends
you're on the cutting insider-edge of beauty science. And nothing says "I just
can't live without my weekly fancy-pants porterhouse," like a $6 bottle of steak
sauce from the celeband politico-fave Uncle Jack's Steakhouse.

* Tip-sy: For the truly cheap, snag a couple of empty brand-name bottles from
your parents or neighbors and fill them with some Brand X spirits from your
local deli.

* Be a person of note: "Write messages to yourself and stick them to your
refrigerator," recommends "Christmas Ornaments" authors Ralph Del Pozzo and
David High. "Like: 'Buy more Google stock, going up,' and 'Don't forget to send
Mario the meatball recipe!'" We made our own version on a message board from
Target ($16.99 at target.com).

Get highbrow

* Must sees: Replace the trashy DVDs we all own and love ("The Simple Life:
Season 1") with highbrow, niche, and, preferably, foreign films - like cult
British classic "Abigail's Party," Swedish deep-thinker all-time-favorite "Fanny
and Alexander," and the French edition of not-yet-released-in-America film "Le
Livre de Jeremie," the Asia Argento film adaptation of JT Leroy's hipster hit
"The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things." We got our own pretentious pile of
cinema from Amazon.fr and Amazon.co.uk, but you can copy the DVD covers from
your local indie movie-rental joint.

* Well-read: I don't know anyone who doesn't judge other people on their book
collections. Ban the Jackie Collins (even though we all want to, it's hard to
pull off ironic Jackie, sorry), self-help texts, and other trashy pop-lit. This
year's hottest talkers - that will make you seem like you have good taste, are
smart, and also seductively melancholy - include Kazuo Ishiguro's "Never Let Me
Go," J.M. Coetzee's "Slow Man," and Ian McEwan's "Saturday." Can't spring for
the real thing? Color-copy the jackets from your local public library and slip
your copy of "Lovers and

Gamblers" inside.

The W.C.

* Vanity, thy name is: When guests check out your medicine cabinet - and you
know they will - be sure to have a half-empty box of Trojan's Magnum XL Condoms.
Other vanity stuffers: Oprah gives her guests bottles of Kiehl's Liquid Body
Cleanser (from $13 at kiehls.com) along with towels and robes. If you're short
on cash, "Rather than spending money on expensive toiletries for guests to use,
consider asking stores like Kiehl's or Sephora about free product samples," says
Julia Bourland, author of "TWIGS: The Go- Girl Guide to Nesting."

Place a jar of oh-so-French Sothys Thalassothys Remineralizing Bath Salts ($32
at sothys-usa.com). Yes, of course, you got it at the Sothys spa in France. But
if you can't afford it, colorful rock candy in a jar works too.

* Flush it: Hide your porn and lad mags! We suggest folding them into New
Yorkers and Robb Reports - you can steal them from your neighbors' recycling
bin. Free upgrade!

Fine living room

* Better than a beanbag: First Impressions Home Marketing
(firstimpressionshomemarketing.com, (212) 808-0221) specializes in staging homes
with 18th-century antiques and designer pieces. This Centennial Hepplewhite
embroidered upholstered chair and 18th-century English Commode, which can be
used as a side or end table, can be rented for $200 for four weeks.

* Think global, buy local: If all your friends are wise to Chinatown's Pearl
River mart, check out Roberta Freymann (#2A, 49 E. 78th Street, (212) 585-3767),
a shop full of exotic delights where you can pick up souvenirs like an
embroidered "Suzani" tablecloth from Uzbekistan and silver Vietnamese globe
votives. Even though they hail from uptown, having them in your home will make
you seem like you've traveled far beyond the reaches of Manhattan island.

* Scents and sensibility: Our favorite not-cheap candle this season, Victoria's
Secret's Aphrodisiac Candles (from $24 at victoriasssecret.com), won't break the
bank (like some $50 candles we've known), and burn for up to 30 hours. Another
option is room fragrance diffused through wicking sticks. Celebs like Courteney
Cox Arquette, Lindsay Lohan and Maria Menounos love Alora Ambience Rosa ($76 at
Barneys New York, (888) 8BARNEYS) a long-lasting room fragrance that gently
diffuses the scent throughout your home.

And instead of matchbooks from your local Duane Reade, put out matchbooks from
celebrity hangouts like AER or Miami's Snatch - even if you've only been there
once. As far as anyone needs to know, you're a regular behind the velvet ropes.

Make an entrance

* Fashion publicist Andrew Boepple recommends, "Prada shoes in the entry way -
carefully placed so as to appear to have been casually kicked off." We like to
name-and-shoe drop Alexander McQueen too. If you can't beg, borrow, or steal a
pair of posh shoes, at the very least, scratch out the "Payless Shoe Source"
label.

---

* "I love the dollar store. Everyone in my family does. It's our dirty little
secret. Last year I decorated my entire tree for $20. Just stickwith a theme -
no more than a couple of colors and it looks very elegant." - Daniella Brodsky,
author of "Princess of Park Avenue"

* "To seem more Continental, "pour wine in tumblers or those little glasses
instead of wine glasses." - Tina Chadha, associate editor at Jane magazine

* "Buy easy-bake dessert mixes and add a few special ingredients like walnuts.
Cut them into irregular shapes and bake them. Then claim them as homebaked
goodies from grandma's secret recipe." - Christina Carathanassis, beauty
publicist

* "A lot of people can't afford flat screen TVs. If you have a rear projection
TV with a flat front, you can move the cabinets surrounding the television so it
looks like a flat screen. Just make sure people can't see the sides or back and
it will look like you have an expensive $5,000 TV." - Jonathan Cheban, publicist

* Photoshop yourself "with" stars for your mantle. Or "buy a box of cheap
Christmas cards, make them out to yourself from 'celebrities.' It's also a good
idea to mail a few to yourself a couple days before your guests arrive. Then
make a scene when you get them - 'Of all the years I didn't send Britney a card!
Now I feel terrible.' " - Ralph Del Pozzo and David High, authors of "Christmas
Ornaments"

* For a practically free designer home fragrance, "peel open scent strips from
fashion magazines and place them on a warm radiator about an hour before the
party." - Danny Seo, host of Simply Green on Sirius Satellite Radio's LIME
channel

* Get "multiple cashmere throws to cover up your stained old couch." - Erin
Flaherty, beauty and health director at Jane magazine

* "Set up a drinks table in your apartment. It's so easy - use a card table or
roller carts from Home Depot. Having a cute tray is key - like the lacquered
plastic ones from Crate and Barrel - and bottles of everything." - Sara Ruffin
Costello, style director at Domino magazine

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Photos by Liz Sullivan; Styled by Danica Lo -Photos: Jamie McCarthy /
WireImage; Lester Cohen / WireImage -Dana wears a crimson party dress, $348 by
Tadashi (tadashicollection.com) and socks, $18 by Charles Tyrwhitt
(ctshirts.co.uk). Gavin wears tuxedo shirt, $90, bowtie, $47, boxer briefs, $18,
and socks, $18, all by Charles Tyrwhitt (ctshirts.co.uk).  [Liz Sullivan]
-Photos by Liz Sullivan; Styled by Danica Lo -Photos: Jamie McCarthy /
WireImage; Lester Cohen / WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
