
                               1 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday

THE (POLAR) BEAR FACTS

BYLINE:

SECTION: ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 368 words


It was a cold month in hell for globalwarming alarmists.

First came word last month that the Interior Department had suspended a top
scientist who helped turn polar bears into a fuzzy white symbol of the
climate-change movement: Think baby seals - but much, much bigger.

Then there arose further doubts about some critical global-warming data.

First, the bears: Researcher Charles Monnett is being probed over "integrity
issues" linked to his 2006 paper that argued polar bears were drowning as rising
temperatures melt ice caps.

He's no small potatoes: Al Gore used Monnett's work to manipulative effect in
his film "An Inconvenient Truth." And the paper led directly to the 2008
classification of the bears as a "threatened" species, whose survival is
allegedly at risk due to global warming.

Of course, even the data on warming are suspect, as a study published last month
in the journal Remote Sensing shows.

The study looked at NASA satellite data from 2000 to 2011 and found that the
atmosphere has been releasing far more heat into space than warming models
predicted.

That's key: Alarmists say carbon-dioxide emissions trap heat in the atmosphere,
triggering dangerous climate changes. But satellite observations "suggest there
is much more energy lost to space . . . than the climate models show," the study
found.

The warming is supposed to . . . well, snowball, as the heat itself changes
cloud formations and traps even more warm air.

But that hasn't been so, the study authors note: "There is a huge discrepancy
between the data and the forecasts." Meaning that the catastrophic scenarios
pushed by warming alarmists are way off.

Of course, the point of all the huffing and puffing is to empower governments
and force nations (particularly the US) to spend trillions of dollars,
ostensibly to avert climatic disaster, no matter what the data show.

And for some true believers, the temptation to fudge the facts is simply too
strong, as was revealed by the Climategate e-mails.

Bottom line: Forget the refrain that climatechange science is settled. There's
no need to weep for "threatened" polar bears just yet - nor, especially, for the
planet.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

THE TRUE 'CLIMATE' THREAT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 318 words


The White House announced this week that climate-change czar Carol Browner is
leaving - without, it seems, a replacement on the horizon.

Considering how much focus the administration put on economically damaging ideas
like the so-called cap-and-trade taxing scheme over the last two years,
Browner's exit actually amounts to a lot less than meets the eye.

For one thing, this departure suggests that the "climate change" that most
concerns the White House is Capitol Hill's transformed political climate.

The House vote to control greenhouse emissions via cap-and-trade contributed
greatly to the Democrats' loss of 63 seats - and their majority.

In response, Team Obama has begun cultivating a pro-business image - bringing in
GE CEO Jeff Immelt as a senior adviser on jobs, talking of lowering corporate
taxes and suggesting a need for less regulation. Having a less visible
climate-change czar is just part of that shift.

Besides, with Republicans now in the House majority, there's no chance such
job-killing legislation will be revived.

Yet this doesn't mean that there's any retreat from the administration's overall
job-killing policy.

On the contrary, the Environmental Protection Agency - which Browner ran back
during the Clinton administration - has already asserted that the Clean Air Act
gives it the authority to institute a de facto cap-and-trade structure by
regulatory fiat.

That could have a disastrous impact on the US economy.

Fortunately, the House GOP can put its majority to good use. The Energy and
Commerce Committee needs to haul in EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson - sooner
rather than later - to testify under oath about her climate-change regulatory
plans.

Passing legislation - and pressuring the Senate to follow suit - to explicitly
block the EPA from overstepping its authority is a good idea, too.

The health of the US economy - short- and long-term - is at stake.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

'Snow' crews get power to the people

BYLINE: LEONARD GREENE

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 693 words


Chainsaw-wielding Con Ed crews made steady progress restoring power to thousands
of homes in New York yesterday, days after heavy, wet snow toppled trees and
snapped leafy branches from Maryland to Maine.

Officials at the beleaguered utility company said workers had restored
approximately 100,000 - or more than 75 percent - of the approximately 129,000
customers in New York City and Westchester who experienced power outages from
Saturday's freak storm.

In New Jersey, out of Con Ed territory, about 338,000 customers were still
without power, down from nearly 700,000.

But in hard-hit Connecticut, about 690,000 customers were still without power,
down from more than 830,000, a number that broke the state record set when
Tropical Storm Irene blew through in August.

Connecticut Light & Power President Jeff Butler said 486 line crews and 284 tree
crews were at work.

"Two months ago, many of these customers faced lengthy outages, [and] are once
again facing prolonged outages," he said. "Certainly not only the frustration,
but the challenges of living without power are - especially as the weather
changes - significant. We recognize that."

Communication across Connecticut was disrupted because of damage to hundreds of
cellphone towers.

Across the Northeast, more than 20 deaths were reported in five states and one
in Canada from the weekend storm, which in some areas dumped up to 30 inches of
snow.

Private contractors were called into Central Park to help workers clear fallen
trees in time for Sunday's New York Marathon.

The area around the shuttered Tavern on the Green restaurant, where the marathon
ends, was busy, with workers erecting bleachers at the finish line and others
feeding fallen branches into a chipper. Trees as large as 3 to 4 feet across
were felled, officials said.

"We feel very comfortable that things will be ready" for the race, said Richard
Finn, a spokesman for the New York Road Runners, the group that organizes the
marathon.

More than a dozen school districts in Westchester, Putnam and Rockland counties
remained closed for a second straight day because of the storm, which dropped up
to a foot of snow in the region.

Emergency workers continued to warn residents to stay away from downed power
lines.

In New Jersey, Public Service Electric and Gas said it expects to have power
restored to nearly all its customers today.

State and city officials insist that the October snowstorm was an anomaly, a
rare event that caught everyone by surprise.

But a group of top climate scientists has a different message: Get used to it.

While the crippling pre-Halloween snowstorm over parts of the Northeast last
weekend cannot be blamed directly on climate change, the scientists who wrote
the draft summary of an international scientific report said extremes could
eventually become the norm.

"The extremes are a really noticeable aspect of climate change," said Jerry
Meehl, senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

"I think people realize that the extremes are where we are going to see a lot of
the impacts of climate change."

With Post Wire Services

----

Power outages:

* Connecticut: About 690,000 customers still without power, down from more than
830,000

* New Jersey: About 338,000 still without power, down from nearly 700,000

* New York: About 160,000 without power, down from more than 300,000, mostly in
Westchester

Mass transit:

Metro-North:

Almost all service has been restored.

Wassaic Line: Bus service remains in effect.

Port Jervis Line: Train service is operating between Port Jervis and Harriman.
Trains connect to bus service from Harriman to and from Ramsey-Route 17. Riders
should expect possible residual delays.

Waterbury Line: Bus service remains in effect; buses will operate on or close to
train schedules.

Danbury Line: Bus service remains in effect; buses will operate on or close to
train schedules.

NJ Transit:

Morris & Essex Line: Service remains suspended between Hackettstown and Lake
Hopatcong.

Systemwide: Cross-honoring of tickets remains in effect.

leonardgreene@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A utility worker repairs a power line in Larchmont. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 11, 2011 Friday

FUELS NOTHING BUT DERISION

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 531 words


CARBON NATION  (one star)

WIND power plus solar power equals hot air in the propaganda piece "Carbon
Nation," a documentary so disconnected from reality it could have been produced
by President Obama's speechwriters.

This grade-school filmstrip masquerading as a movie takes the standard,
surreally ill-informed position on climate change -  that we need to switch
instantly to renewable fuels such as ethanol and wind and solar power, with no
discussion of costs. Supposedly this transition will create jobs. But often
these aren't real jobs because they don't make sense in the marketplace.
Unmentioned are the massive subsidies being pumped into corporate welfare for
purveyors of renewables.

Nor are we told that the "experts" interviewed tend to be special interests who
stand to profit from handouts. Interviewees who issue hysterical statements like
"the sea ice cap is almost gone" go uncontradicted. "We're looking at a World
War II level of mobilization," says one subsidy seeker, after the narrator
grimly intones that a multilevel revolution is coming. It isn't. Which is why
even Obama barely mentions climate change anymore.

Running time: 83 minutes. Not rated (nothing objectionable). At the Cinema
Village, 22 E. 12th St.    -  Kyle Smith

THE SKY TURNS  ***  (three stars)

IN the beautifully com posed documentary "The  Sky Turns," filmmaker Mercedes
Alvarez returns after 35 years to Aldealsenor, the remote Spanish village where
she was born. In fact, she was the last person born there. Times have changed.
The picture-postcard town is now home to just 14 elderly folks and assorted
sheep, goats, dogs and cats.

The remaining residents remember better times and point out landmarks and
treasures left from the days of the dinosaurs.

The stillness of life is disturbed by the arrival of construction equipment to
turn an ancient castle into a luxury hotel. There's a new life ahead for
Aldealsenor -  new, but not necessarily better.

In Spanish, with English subtitles. Running time: 110 minutes. Not rated
(nothing objectionable). At Anthology Film Archives, Second Avenue and Second
Street, through Feb. 18.  -  V.A. Musetto

CERTIFIABLY JONATHAN ** 1/2  (two and half stars)

COMIC genius Jonathan Winters plays himself in this frequently hilarious mock
documentary centering around his second career, as an artist who paints
satirical paintings that look like a cross between the Spanish surrealist Joan
Miro and Native-American works.

The thin fictional conceit here is that the film's director, Jim Pasternak (who
appears on screen far too often), helps the iconic comedian achieve his longtime
dream of a show at the Museum of Modern Art. But Jonathan loses his sense of
humor, and with it the ability to paint three new canvases required for the
show, after his favorite painting is stolen from a gallery in Los Angeles.

Fortunately, Winters' legendary inventiveness as a comedian has not diminished
with the years. He was pushing 80 when "Certifiably Jonathan" was shot a few
years ago, and his timing is just as sharp as in TV appearances from the 1950s.

Running time: 75 minutes. Not rated (profanity). At the Quad, 13th Street.   -
Lou Lumenick

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

THE DINER GETS DELUXE - NOW THAT'S COFFEE-SHOP CHIC! OLD-SCHOOL LUNCHEONETTES
GET A MODERN MAKEOVER; A FINER DINER

BYLINE: CARLA SPARTOS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1226 words


THE classic New York City diner may be on the decline - but its modern
equivalent is definitely on the up and up.

A new coterie of diners du jour are joining retro-cool eateries such as Peels in
the East Village, M. Wells in Long Island City and Diner in Williamsburg.

And more spots are on the way: In mid-August, chef Mathieu Palombino of Motorino
Pizza will open the Bowery Diner at 241 Bowery, serving breakfast, lunch and
dinner seven days a week - from coffee and doughnuts to burgers and milkshakes.

"Diners are really part of the city fabric, and there's something comforting and
real about [them]," says Derek Sanders, who is opening a new branch of La
Esquina inside a classic Williamsburg diner next month.

Straightforward menus and pricing - as well as counters that facilitate
conversation between patrons - are also a plus.

But, as you'd expect, the new crop of coffee shops offers plenty of contemporary
touches, too - especially on the menu, where you're likely to encounter
farmfresh eggs, artisanal coffee and global twists on the comfort-food genre.

"Like a smell, [the diner] reminds us of a time when we were younger," says
Serge Becker, the designer behind Miss Lily's on West Houston Street. "These
things are all cyclical. The moment will come when we'll be sick of retro diners
- but right now, it definitely strikes a chord."

ART DECO REDUX

The Highliner, 210 10th Ave.; 212-206-6206 After a year of construction delays,
Chelsea's iconic Empire Diner has reopened under Charles Milite, who also runs
Union Square's Coffee Shop. "We wanted it to look like it's been there forever,"
says Milite, who replaced the clubby, black '70s interior. He also changed the
name, which was trademarked by the previous tenants.

* Diner by design: To achieve that timeless effect, Milite gutted the venue,
which was built in 1946 by the New Jersey-based Fodero Diner Co. Anything that
was vintage (i.e., stainless steel) was temporarily put into storage, and he
scoured old diner books and eBay for period details, such as conical aluminum
light fixtures. Still, he did make some subtle tweaks. "All that linoleum and
Formica is classic, but we wanted to warm it up," he says, noting that the
addition of mahogany is meant to evoke a train car on the Orient Express.

* On the menu: American comfort food with elevated touches, such as macaroni and
goat cheese ($13) and an omelet with crème fraiche and paddlefish roe ($16), is
currently available until midnight. There's also a full bar and plans to stay
open until 5:30 a.m. come fall, when an additional dining room decorated with
classic boxing art will open.

LATE-NIGHT LATIN LUNCHEONETTE

Coppelia, 207 W. 14th St.; 212-858-5001 Named after the term for an ice-cream
parlor in Cuba, Coppelia offers nuevo-Latino fare 24 hours a day in a location
that borders the Meatpacking District, the West Village and Chelsea. "We wanted
to incorporate a classic New York diner feel with a Cuban luncheonette,"
explains chef-owner Julian Medina, of Toloache and Yerba Buena.

* Diner by design: The gleaming counter stools, prominent dessert case and
placemat menus are traditional, but the Cuban spirit is fresh. A sunny
yellow-and-teal color scheme is accented with folksy tiles, nostalgic Cuban
artwork and seating like you would find in an old Chevy.

* On the menu: Reasonably priced Latin American dishes with Mexican touches and
contemporary flair include empanadas ($2.25 to $3.25), fresh flounder ceviche
($10.95) and classics such as arroz con pollo and ropa vieja (both $15.95). A
full liquor license is expected in a few months - until then, try a Mexican
Coca-Cola ($1.95) or a dulce de leche milkshake ($4.95) with deep caramel notes.

JAMAICAN JOINT

Miss Lily's, 132 W. Houston St.; 646-588-5375 A warm peach glow suffuses the
front room of cool new Village canteen Miss Lily's, inspired by the cheerful
Jamaican eateries of Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant. "A lot of them have
this cheap-diner/fast-food aesthetic - but always with a more exuberant color
scheme," explains creative director Serge Becker. "There's a really sweet,
amateur quality that's endearing and charming."

* Diner by design: Becker "distilled and amped up" the typical Brooklyn look -
think menu boards with multiple fonts, red Formica booths and hand-painted
artwork that mimics the genre's cheesy food photography. "It's slightly familiar
but still feels quite refreshing, which is the idea," he says.

* On the menu: Jamaican comfort food classics, such as jerk chicken ($19), are
served until 1:30 a.m. most nights. There are also lighter, fusiony twists, such
as curried lobster jaquitos (three mini-tacos for $9), and beer-and-wine-based
cocktails, such as the Ting a Ling (Red Stripe and grapefruit-based Ting soda,
$9). A next-door record shop and juice bar will open in September, the latter
serving drinks that adhere to Ital - the spirituality- and vegetarian-based diet
of the Rastafarian movement.

COFFEE SHOP COUTURE

Untitled, Whitney Museum, 945 Madison Ave., 212-570-3670 Before Danny Meyer's
Union Square Hospitality Group took over the old Sarabeth's space in the Whitney
Museum this year, its owners walked up and down Madison Avenue to find what the
neighborhood needed. "Years ago [that stretch] was dotted with diners and coffee
shops," says partner Richard Coraine. "Where a diner may have existed was now a
luxury retailer." So the solution seemed simple: "Get the best ingredients we
can and do the same thing."

* Diner by design: According to Coraine, the challenge was, "How do you put a
restaurant in a space that has a lot of right angles and hard surfaces?" By
adding stainless steel and wood, an inviting counter with comfortable bone
leather chairs and familiar touches, such as condiment caddies and drip coffee
served in old-timey hottles.

* On the menu: "We didn't want to do the seven-page diner menu," says Coraine.
Instead, you'll find coffee-shop highlights made with artisanal ingredients -
from sausage, egg and cheese on a roll ($8) to a burger with home fries ($14) to
a Greek salad ($13), plus Stumptown coffee and draft soda from Brooklyn Soda
Works. The daytime cafe also serves a fancier three-course dinner Friday through
Sunday evenings.

VIVA la diner

Cafe de La Esquina, 225 Wythe Ave., Williamsburg; soft opening Aug. 8 Like the
NoLIta original, this Brooklyn spinoff will showcase Mexican street food from
chef Akhtar Nawab in an old New York setting - this time a 1952 prefab diner
with a back room and outdoor garden taqueria. "The diner aspect itself - with
the patina and bit of wear, but still so beautiful - was so appropriate to us,"
says owner-architect Derek Sanders, who notes it recently served as a set for
the upcoming "Men in Black 3."

* Diner by design: "I almost didn't want to interfere with [the design]," says
Sanders of his less-is-more approach to the former Wythe Diner, whose bones he
calls "really well thought-out and conceived." Instead, he added warm layers
through elements such as wood blinds and paneling. "The average person might
think it's still the same," he notes.

* On the menu: The diner portion of the restaurant will open for lunch and
dinner next month with a menu offering La Esquina classics and newer creations,
plus a number of tequila cocktails. More sophisticated dishes will be available
in the moodier back room.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Old Formica counters have been replaced by mahogany at the Highliner.
[N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith (2)] -Kacey Librizzi balances a jerk burger (left)
and mackerel salad (also inset) at Miss Lily's, inspired by Brooklyn's Jamaican
eateries. [Michael Sofronski (2)] -Coppelia feels like a classic NYC diner
combined with a traditional Cuban luncheonette. [N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith (2)]
-Like many of the menu items at Untitled, the classic burger (inset) is made
with artisanal ingredients. [N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith (2)]  -The new La
Esquina, in an old diner, will serve Mexican-inspired dishes and cocktails.
-The Pepino Diablo cocktail is made of jalapeño tequila, cucumber, agave and
lime.  [Jonathan Baskin (2)] -The Greek salad at the Whitney's Untitled
restaurant is a work of art. [N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith] -Highliner waitress
Elizabeth Jimenez shows off a candy-bar dessert named for the new eatery, which
is located in the former Empire Diner space. -Old Formica counters have been
replaced by mahogany at the Highliner.  [N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith (2)] -Kacey
Librizzi balances a jerk burger (left) and mackerel salad (also inset) at Miss
Lily's, inspired by Brooklyn's Jamaican eateries. [Michael Sofronski (2)]
-Coppelia feels like a classic NYC diner combined with a traditional Cuban
luncheonette. [N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith (2)]  -Like many of the menu items at
Untitled, the classic burger (inset) is made with artisanal ingredients. [N.Y.
Post: Tamara Beckwith (2)]  -The new La Esquina, in an old diner, will serve
Mexican-inspired dishes and cocktails.  -The Pepino Diablo cocktail is made of
jalapeño tequila, cucumber, agave and lime.  [Jonathan Baskin (2)] -The Greek
salad at the Whitney's Untitled restaurant is a work of art. [N.Y. Post: Tamara
Beckwith]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

FACT-TWISTERS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 286 words


The tornadoes carving a deadly alley through the Midwest and South have killed
nearly 300 people in six states - a reminder of nature's power.

Twisters, some over a mile wide, have razed towns and dumped down spiky hail the
size of grapefruit.

"The storms are just amazingly explosive, and they're covering a very large
area," said Greg Carbin of the Storm Prediction Center in Oklahoma.

Scientists believe this is the worst spate of twisters since 1974.

Naturally, the global-warmists are already blaming the storms on climate change
- using the tornadoes to call for carbon-emissions diktats from the
Environmental Protection Agency that would hobble American industries.

The head of the Pacific Institute insists things will only get "worse and worse,
faster and faster, the longer our politicians dither and delay and deny."

But there's a flaw in that argument: Weather isn't the same as climate.

And even in a warming world, "some ingredients that are favorable to tornadoes
will increase . . . others will decrease," as Harold Brooks of the National
Severe Storms Laboratory said.

Fact is, tornado records have only been kept since 1950 - and the numbers from
those early years are fairly thin.

But one figure is incontrovertible: The US economy grew by a miserable 1.8
percent last quarter.

Translation: The economy is grinding to a halt - and the very last thing the US
can afford is to impose harsh new regulations that make matters even worse.

As President Obama said yesterday, "We can't control when or where a terrible
storm may strike, but we can control how we respond to it."

He was talking about disaster aid, of course. But the same goes for how the
government responds with energy policy.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

OUR COUNTRY & CITY ARE MELTING

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 805 words


ABOUT April in Paris, I don't know. About summer in the city, I know. It stinks.
As do out-of-towners who think bathing is only on alternate sides of the street.

Spending the season traveling to fund-raisers is our commuter-in-chief. While
lowering America's face, standing, spirit, banks, economics, employment, stock
market, Treasury notes, finances, future, funds, hopes, dreams, homes, credit,
retirement, bonuses, jobs, plans, all our supreme commuter has lifted is the
price of teleprompters.

Congress and the House of nonRepresentatives? Having mucked up our lives, our
401(k)s, our college funds, our Social Security, our Medicaid, our Middle East,
our position in the global universe, veering toward a recession, a regression
and depression - they're off on vacation. The lone thing they haven't left in a
big hole is our Second Avenue subway. We did that ourselves.

Unbusy restaurants are surviving with just part-time help. This means their
usually lousy service is slower.

Cabbies? At least their middle finger is ungloved. And lest constantly running
engines overheat, drivers shut down on air conditioning. The good news?
Passengers get a better whiff of the front seat falafel.

NYC's pushcarts push on. The cold water is warm. The pretzels are soggy. The ice
cream melts. But at least the hot dogs are finally hot. In fact, sweating.

We're too warm to care that Verizon's on strike because - can you hear me now -
their operation is so bad no one can get anyone on the line to tell them how
lousy they are. 411 has slunk to 298. AT&T's merging with T-MobileVerizon so
press 1 to get 2 to talk to 3 will soon mean telephone communication that's
dysfunctional on two networks.

Wardrobe? Ladies shaped like hassocks bobble around in shorts on city streets.
Varicose veins are so uplifting in front of Prada. Sometimes that harmonizes
when the blue in their legs matches something in the window. The rest of an
outfit is an undershirt or visible bra when what they really need is a hammock.

Gents flap about in flip-flops. I personally find hammertoes where one overlaps
another such a turn-on. Especially when they sprout hair. Saturdays it's
bicycles, tricycles, motorcycles, Segways, scooters, skateboards. Park Avenue
traded limos with drivers for grocery carts with screaming kids. Next year
parents could try something new. Send their dogs to camp and kids to obedience
school.

Traffic may be less because nobody's going anywhere. Movies are $13. Popcorn
$6.50 at the starvation size. The suggested museum donation is only a few bucks
less than a Rembrandt.

The walking problem. When steam surfaces from below, asphalt or tar or Scotch
tape or whatever they stick inside a road for filler gets runny, and high heels
get stuck in it.

Nonetheless, August in town beats those out of town Hamptons, where LSD stands
for lox, salami and danish. Pests you worked to avoid are all there pretending
to play tennis while unreal Housewives clog art gallery openings, not-so-VIP
screenings, charity events. It's where the newest thing in women's hairdos are
men. And where people accept you for what you're not.

Highways? Tourists driving to the beach, have them look for signs that say
"Triboro." Talk to them about Sixth Avenue when they're already on Avenue of the
Americas. If they ask, "Which way's Brooklyn?" tell them it's where the other
end of the bridge rests.

After an American Greetings card said call waiting originally meant a line
outside a phone booth, I decided the rest of this solstice I'd study our new
phraseology.

Like: A flat screen used to be a window to keep insects out.

Airbag? Someone who talked too much. Gasbag - same thing, Windbag - same.
Dirtbag came attached to a vacuum not to Madoff.

Remember when spam was found in the kitchen? Cellphone: What gets used for your
one call from jail.

High-speed access? HOV highway lane.

Pre-computer, "save" meant going to the bank.

Initials on a note were RSVP - not OMG.

Weed grew in the garden.

Crack was drugs. It wasn't what shows when your jeans flash your butt.

Ho ho ho? Santa not a hooker.

Yo was for pirates instead of greetings.

A bug. Shoo it off your lapel, not hide it on your lapel.

Joint? Previously, a cheap shop. Today, a cheap thrill.

Willy. An abbreviated name not a description of an abbreviated something else.

Weiner? A juicy frank instead of a juicy politico.

Brass, boobs, butts, behinds were in lingerie, not on television. "F" meant you
failed, not that you scored.

A hog was a fat pig, not a motorbike.

Boob. A dope, not what Katy Perry tried stuffing inside a costume.

"Man" meant a human being, not a form of address.

Hoods were attached to Gotti not ski suits.

It's hot. I've had enough.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday

INTRIGUING GENERALITIES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 436 words


It was an arresting State of the State Address Gov. Cuomo gave yesterday -
complete with humorous graphics and a mock license plate proclaiming the "Empire
State Strikes Back."

It was also more honest than any State of the State speech in years,
particularly in that it lasered in on the self-serving fecklessness that for so
long has defined the very people - like Assembly Speaker Shelly Silver and
Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos - before whom he spoke.

He quickly got to the point.

The recession hit hard, Cuomo said: "Upstate is truly in economic crisis." New
York "has the worst business climate in the nation - period."

And he got to the root of the problem with a simple statement: "The state of New
York spends too much money."

Right. Right. And right, again.

The governor called for more than just simple budget trims and adjustments. "We
must turn this crisis into an opportunity to fundamentally remake our state," he
said. "We must transform the state of New York."

Cuomo was picking up from Saturday's inaugural speech, providing New Yorkers
further insight into the kind of governor he intends to be - and the agenda he
plans to pursue.

But only in a general sense.

Alas, the speech offered few specifics about how he hopes to get from Point A to
Point B. Especially when it came to an "emergency financial plan" touted before
the speech - but scarcely touched upon in the delivery.

He repeatedly spoke of deficits but supplied nary a clue as to what exactly he
plans to do about them - other than to reiterate promises to plug gaps by
freezing state-employee wages and capping spending, and without higher taxes or
new borrowing.

Intriguingly, he promised to establish a number of commissions to "redesign"
Medicaid, education, government operations and state mandates. We say
"intriguingly," because the idea seems to be to get the special interests to
self-immolate.

In the case of Medicaid, for example, such self-servers as Dennis Rivera, former
head of New York's health-care union; Kenneth Raske, representing hospitals;
state lawmakers, and "consumer advocates" are meant to be herded into a room in
hopes that "reform" can be achieved.

Maybe they'd end up picking each others' pockets for a change, but that's
probably the best that can be hoped for.

That is, the sort of transformation Cuomo seeks will not be easily achieved. He
knows that: "Change is not easy," he said, "but we must change to return to
prosperity."

We couldn't agree more.

And we certainly hope he prevails.

Next up: The state budget - due by law on Feb. 1. Maybe that's where the
specifics are lurking.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday

TRUE BRIT - WHAT DAVID CAMERON CAN TEACH AMERICAN CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 823 words


LONDON - British Prime Minister David Cameron has done some ridiculous and
indefensible things. He called Gaza a "prison camp" and deplored Israel. One of
his fi rst acts as prime minister was to cancel a huge jobcreating project -
another runway at Heathrow - placing the interests of a tiny minority of NIMBYs
over the nation's.

And he has allowed himself to be suckered into agreeing to a national referendum
on "Alternative Voting" designed to give even more power to the Liberal
Democrats, a third party that already wields outsized infl uence despite a
recent poll indicating support of only 11%.

But every so often, the Conservative prime minister sounds intriguingly . . .
conservative.

In his now-famous speech declaring the failure of multiculturalism, he stood up
for "a much more active, muscular liberalism" that "believes in certain values
and actively promotes them. Freedom of speech.

Freedom of worship. Democracy. The rule of law. Equal rights regardless of race,
sex or sexuality." When faced with gargantuan defi cits, Cameron actually
reduced spending.

This has led to predictable short-term pain, but it's the crucial fi rst
injection (yet to be administered by Dr. Obama) in returning Britain to fi scal
health. In so doing, Cameron, like any good healthcare provider, has raised
related lifestyle issues. He hopes to return Britain to healthy habits.

Cameron's big idea, the "Big Society," means a devolution of power from the
capital to local governments, more competition for public services and
encouragement for more volunteerism and giving. The national purse can't shower
funding on every local problem, but Cameron frames this as an opportunity for
the citizens to take over for time-serving, unaccountable bureaucrats. More than
250 communities have applied to set up their own alternative schools to be paid
for by the state but run by the locals. Welfare contracts are being offered to
private fi rms and charities.

"If there are facilities that the state can't afford to keep open, shouldn't we
try to encourage communities who want to come forward and help them?" Cameron
asked this week. It's a sentence that terrifi es the bureaucracy - what if
people fi gure out that they don't need armies of civil servants with massive
benefi ts and pensions?

Local governments responded exactly the way you'd expect: They announced that
cuts in their grants had forced them to reduce hours at libraries and take away
bus passes from the elderly.

They were walking directly into Cameron's trap. Cuts make reporters curious.

Where might the money be going?

It turns out that local councils are run by reverse Robin Hoods who are robbing
Granny to pay the Sheriff of Nottingham.

About half of Britain's Town Hall chieftains, the Daily Mail reported, make more
money than Cameron. At least 134 of the 400 local chief executives in England
and Wales make more than $240,000. The boss of the Birmingham city council, who
makes $320,000 a year, presides over a government octopus that includes more
than $3 million a year for 28 "equality and diversity" offi cers. Birmingham
even employs two "climate change offi cers." Why not an ambassador to Mars?
Birmingham plays as large a role in interplanetary diplomacy as it does in
climate change. The chief of the London borough of Wandsworth retired last year
on nearly $500,000 in pay. Laidoff bureaucrats are getting severance packages
that a study rated as four to fi ve times as generous as those in the private
sector.

And who sets the pay of functionaries? The functionaries.

Think there are some American examples of this? Ask Bell, Calif. Heck, ask
Nassau.

Cameron's Big Society is heir to President George H.W. Bush's vision of "a
thousand points of light," or dynamic individuals and small groups replacing
sclerotic bureaucracies. Unlike Bush, though, Cameron looks as if he may
actually follow through.

With the exception of the Thatcher period, the history of post-1945 Britain has
been a story of a once-fi ercely individualistic people sinking comfortably into
the soft, welcoming quagmire of collectivism. Gradually the citizens grow tired
and timid, which in turn makes them even more eager for public services as they
worry about drifting all the way to the bottom. British couples who earn as
little as $55,000 a year are walloped with a 40% income tax, and Cameron raised
the national sales tax from 17.5% to 20%. This in a land where gasoline is over
$7 a gallon, most of that tax.

All of which sounds shocking to American ears. But Cameron took power in an
exceptionally dire moment and seems eager to gently reacquaint Britain with
individualism. He said this week that his countrymen need to "take more
responsibility" and "act more responsibly." Our own political leaders might fi
nd that Americans are open to such unexpected candor. Honesty may not be the
usual way of doing business in Washington, but it might be useful when all else
fails.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday

RED LIGHT FOR ECO-TAXI BID

BYLINE: RICH CALDER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 306 words


Mayor Bloomberg's master plan to make every yellow taxi go green has come to a
screeching halt.

The US Supreme Court ended a four-year legal battle yesterday by refusing to
hear the city's appeal of two lower-court decisions that struck down the mayor's
mandate forcing cab operators to buy fuel-efficient hybrids.

The courts had sided with the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which
represents hundreds of taxi-fleet owners, by ruling that it's up to federal
agencies - not local officials - to regulate fuel-economy and emissions
standards.

"We are disappointed that the US Supreme Court decided not to clarify a law that
has very large nationwide environmental implications," said city Corporation
Counsel Michael Cardozo.

Speaking at a news conference yesterday, Bloomberg said that he plans to lobby
Congress to change the law, and noted that a dozen local governments had joined
in the city's appeal.

"The cities are those that are addressing real-world problems, like climate
change and energy policy," he said. "The federal government seems unable to
address those issues."

About one-third, or 4,400, of the city's 13,237 taxis are gas-electric hybrids,
and many of the hybrids are driven by hacks who own their vehicles rather than
lease them from fleets.

Most city taxis are gas-guzzling Ford Crown Victorias, but those will be gone by
2014. Taxi officials are holding a contest to select a new model to replace all
of the city's cabs.

And under the court rulings, even that "taxi of tomorrow" doesn't have to be
fuel-efficient.

Michael Woloz, a spokesman for the MTBT, called the victory "bittersweet."

He said the industry supports fuel efficiency, but the city policy would have
made it "impossible" for fleets to find cars that could endure wear and tear.

In the long run, he said, that compromises safety.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROADBLOCK: The Supreme Court dashed the city's appeal to require
cabbies to use hybrids like this Toyota. [William Farrington]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 17, 2011 Monday

AN UGLY PIX-TURE - AX AND WORK CLIMATE SAP MORALE AT TV STATION

BYLINE: JOSH KOSMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 569 words


Aggressive cost-cutting moves at WPIX-TV - together with continued allegations
of a harsh and unfriendly work environment - are taking their toll on morale at
the Tribune-owned station, The Post has learned.

The latest move under News Director Bill Carey's watch that unsettled staff came
in the last several days, when the station shuttered the sports department,
eliminated the sports director position and reassigned Lolita Lopez, the sports
director, sources tell The Post.

With the move, WPIX becomes the first Big Apple TV station not to have a sports
department, sources said.

It is unclear if the station plans to fold sports into the news coverage and
have news anchors report the scores or if it plans to outsource sports coverage.

In additional cuts, the station's human resources, research and community
affairs departments have been eliminated.

Four present WPIX employees told The Post that besides the cost-cutting, they
felt they were working in a deteriorating work environment. One of them said,
"There's no line that can't be crossed."

At the same time, Channel 11 - broadcast home of the New York Mets - wants to
change union rules to do away with a dedicated camera person during on-location
news shoots and force WPIX reporters to do it alone, a union source added.

If successful, WPIX would be the first major New York station, besides non-union
NY1, to do so, sources said.

Channel 11 is no stranger to such allegations of turmoil. Last June, Karen
Scott, a former news director at WPIX, reportedly hit the station with a $4.5
million lawsuit claiming such news legends as Kaity Tong and Sal Marchiano
suffered from age discrimination.

Later in the summer, employees were let go or demoted after participating in a
report on WPIX's alleged difficult work environment.

Then-WPIX General Manager Betty Ellen Berlamino, who was investigating such
charges, delivered her report to the head office of the bankrupt Tribune company
in Chicago, according to a source. As part of her report, she spoke extensively
to Jim Watkins, then the weeknight news anchor, who confirmed that fellow
reporters had confided in him about their experiences.

"He [Watkins] was questioned and was honest [about the work climate]," said a
source with direct knowledge of the situation.

Berlamino was soon let go, and Watkins demoted, sources said.

WPIX's former HR director, Jean Maye, told one individual who participated in
the report that the person's employment at the company would not be threatened.

Also, this past fall, Emmy Award-winning reporter Peter Thorne tried to resign
but wasn't freed from his contract after he saw a particular story air on the
WPIX 10 p.m. newscast - the same story Thorne pitched to Carey that morning, and
that Carey rejected, sources said.

Carey, a former general manager at WFTS/Channel 28 in Tampa Bay, was hired in
November 2009 with a mandate for change - and to press for higher ratings. He
demoted Tong and Watkins.

On the ratings front, he did appear to score a hit with the 10 o'clock news.
Last October, Carey named Jodi Applegate as sole anchor and, over the past seven
months, WPIX's ratings in that slot have risen to 1.1 from about 0.8.

WPIX spokeswoman Jessica Bellucci declined to comment.

---

Station breaks

Tribune-owned WPIX-TV is being hit by allegations that a combination of
cost-cutting and harsh management decisions are damaging morale.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: News anchor Jim Watkins on the 6 p.m. PIX newscast yesterday. [Post
photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 20, 2011 Sunday

FRACK, BABY, FRACK!

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 428 words


In three months, a statewide ban on all natural gas drilling comes to an end.

But will Gov. Cuomo allow developers to begin tapping the rich Marcellus Shale -
and thus not only help allay New York's energy woes but also boost the upstate
region's ailing economy?

Then-Gov. David Paterson issued the moratorium last December after vetoing a
bill that would have extended an existing ban on hydraulic fracturing, aka
hydrofracking, in which water and chemicals are injected into rock formations to
release natural gas.

Hard-core lefties and environmental groups say the process - which is banned
only in New York - contaminates groundwater.

But those claims are refuted by the offi cial state geologist, who calls them
"exaggerated" and says he's found no evidence of such contamination in three
years of study.

"This could really help us fi ght climate change," said Dr. Langhorne "Taury"
Smith, who works for the State Museum, in an interview with an upstate
newspaper. "This is a huge gift, this shale."

On the other hand, the controversy over the shale, he said, has been a gold mine
for environmental groups - which have raised funds by alarming folks about the
alleged dangers of hydrofracking.

The legislative ban, which was passed after lobbying by the Working Families
Party and MoveOn, would've not only prohibited the horizontal drilling method,
but also the vertical one, which has been used for decades without opposition.

It also had the strong support of Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver.

No surprise there - as The Post fi rst reported in January, Silver's law fi rm,
Weitz & Luxenberg, holds regular "forums" in gasdrilling states, searching for
clients interested in suing natural-gas developers.

During last fall's campaign, Cuomo was noncommittal on whether he'd lift the
ban, saying that hydrofracking "could provide a badly needed boost to the
economy" - but only if it were proven "environmentally sensitive and safe."

But then he named Joe Martens to head the Department of Environmental
Conservation - and Martens, former head of the Open Space Institute, not only
opposes hydrofracking but also questions whether DEC has the "capacity to ensure
that everything involved in the drilling process goes according to plan."

New York is not so rich in new energy sources that it can afford to let the
Marcellus Shale, which stretches across upstate's Southern Tier, remain
untapped. And the region can ill afford to bypass any opportunity to add some
5,000 new jobs.

Cuomo should lift the ban - if not now, then certainly when it expires in July.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday

What to make of tax hiker Cuomo

BYLINE: michael goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 306 words


Bob Dylan's famous line that "you don't need a weatherman to know which way the
wind blows" tells New Yorkers all they need to know about Gov. Cuomo's embrace
of a tax hike he campaigned against. In a flash, Cuomo jumped off the
smaller-government bandwagon and joined the "income equality" movement for
higher taxes and spending.

The tax hits New Yorkers earning over $2 million a year and gives the average
family a cut of only $4 a week. But the real meaning will depend on how much
Cuomo changes his approach in the next three years. Already the sudden shift is
creating doubts about his commitment to fixing Albany.

"The jury is out on him" a player close to Mayor Bloomberg said. He called the
tax change "an odd turn of events" and added, "Now we don't know what to make of
the guy."

Cuomo's decision to balance the budget mostly through the $2 billion tax hike
instead of spending cuts could mean he has given up on creating a climate that
will lead to private-job growth.

City taxpayers will lose the most if Cuomo decides his political career is best
served by a permanent left turn on fiscal issues. Bloomberg wants Cuomo to
establish a new pension tier for government workers that would save the city
about $30 billion over 30 years, with $90 billion more saved around the state.

Last summer, the governor did propose a later retirement age for new employees,
higher worker contributions and the end of overtime that pads payouts. But
unions say they will oppose pension changes.

Now, with the tax hike lowering the pressure for cuts, City Hall isn't sure
whether Cuomo will even fight for his own plan. Nobody knows which Cuomo will
emerge in January.

"The good reputation he was developing is his to lose," said one fiscal
conservative. "A lot of people are on the alert over this."

As well they should be.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday

THIS IS HELL'S KITCHEN? ONCE A SLUMMY ENCLAVE KNOWN FOR BUMS AND GANGS, THIS
MIDTOWN 'HOOD IS NOW A FOODIE'S DREAM DESTINATION

BYLINE: CARLA SPARTOS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1619 words


ON a recent Saturday evening, a small army of servers outfitted in charcoal
vests and apple-green ties ferried little plates of amuse-bouche to an elegant,
smartly dressed clientele.

The scene inside the muted, flower-lined dining room could have easily unfolded
in some tony Upper East Side bistro.

But no, this was Hell's Kitchen - in a former parking garage, no less.

"When I told my friends that I was opening up a restaurant, they looked at me
like, 'You're from Le Bernardin! What are you doing in Hell's Kitchen?'" says
Sally Chironis, co-owner of the new French-American restaurant La Silhouette,
which opened in January on an unassuming stretch of West 53rd Street. "I tell
everybody I changed the name. It's no longer Hell's Kitchen. It's Heaven's
Kitchen," Chironis says of the neighborhood, which corrals 34th to 59th streets
west of Eighth Avenue.

The Hell's Kitchen dining scene has long been home to a global array of
affordable eats, showbizzy hangouts and the odd culinary standout (i.e., David
Pasternack's brilliant Esca). But with fine-dining vets like Chironis - who
spent a decade as general manager at Le Bernardin - and promising young culinary
talent suddenly staking out the neighborhood, you'll now find plenty of gourmet
flair, too.

"I definitely see [Hell's Kitchen] growing and becoming one of those
neighborhoods you have to tick off on your list if you're a foodie," says Mandy
Oser, whose West 52nd Street wine bar Ardesia is one of the newer bright spots.

While some arrivals promise celebrity-chef flash (see Steve Cuozzo's review of
Todd English's Ember Room: Page 41), the best newcomers emphasize fresh
interpretations and quality ingredients.

And the area's western edge is no longer a no man's land, what with stylish new
hotels, residences and businesses such as Ogilvy & Mather, Prada and Kenneth
Cole fanning the flames toward 11th Avenue.

"The whole neighborhood is changing. There's a younger crowd who likes finer
things. They used to go [farther east] or downtown - now they don't have to,"
says Eric Hara, the former Oak Room chef who just opened two new restaurants on
Ninth Avenue.

More high-profile venues are on the way: In June, the forthcoming Yotel hotel at
570 10th Ave. will debut a fourth-floor restaurant called DohYo, with the
largest outdoor space in the city. And an outpost of London's Cantonese hot spot
Hakkasan will fling open its doors at 311 W. 43rd St. in November.

Meanwhile, the promise of a new 7 train terminal at 34th Street and 11th Avenue
is luring prospectors farther south: David Waltuck, the former chef-owner of
Chanterelle, is reportedly consulting on a restaurant project at 505 W. 37th St.

"There's this vibrancy; it feels like a true New York neighborhood. You have the
mix of the old and the new," says Oser. For many, that diversity is part of the
neighborhood's allure. "I actually like that there are crazy people and there
are wealthy people, middle-class people and immigrants. The restaurant-bar scene
here reflects that," says Brian Keyser, proprietor of Casellula wine bar and the
recently opened Elsewhere.

"You've got [dive bar] Rudy's and the Ember Room - what could be more
different?"

**   Sophisticated Bites and Bottles Ardesia, 510 W. 52nd St., between 10th and
11th avenues.; 212-247-9191

By day, Mandy Oser works as director of strategic partnerships for Le
Bernardin's celebrated chef Eric Ripert. By night, she helms this neighborhood
wine bar with sleek good looks and a loyal local following. Here you'll find a
solid selection of fresh, elegant pours, with gourmet nibbles to match.

THE SETTING: Modern, airy bar seating with a plush little lounge off to the
side. On May 21, the bar will kick off the summer season with a party on its
front patio, with its cool breezes from the Hudson River down the block. Expect
open pouring of 2010 Wolffer rosé and a selection of hors d'oeuvres ($30,
excludes tax and gratuity; to reserve, e-mail info@ardesia-ny.com).

THE MENU: You can easily cobble a meal together from a variety of small plates,
including delicious charcuterie made in-house (three kinds for $14), addictive
NY-style pretzels ($6) and crostini topped with silky chicken liver mousse ($7).
Pair them with a choice of some 30 wines by the glass - a well-edited mix of
new- and old-world styles.

TRY THIS: Monday through Friday from 5 to 7 p.m., take $2 off any wine or beer
by the glass. On April 16, Ardesia will host its first wine tasting, a casual
afternoon affair led by Oser in the lounge ($30, includes tax and gratuity; to
reserve, e-mail info@ardesia-ny.com).

**   A Warm Welcome From Four-Star Vets La Silhouette, 362 W. 53rd St., between
Eighth and Ninth avenues; 212-581-2400

Expect a friendly greeting from restaurateurs Sally Chironis and Tito Rahman,
who opened this chic French-American restaurant in a former parking garage in
January. Chironis, who spent a decade as general manager of the four-star Le
Bernardin, is a convivial host with a passion for fine food and hospitality.

THE SETTING: A tiny bar gives way to a minimalist bilevel space with pops of
color - request a booth in the sunken main dining room. An outdoor patio and
small secondfloor terrace will open in warm weather.

THE MENU: Chef David Malbequi, formerly of BLT Market and Daniel, deftly
prepares French-accented fare such as a raw crudo of daurade with celery root
purée, hearts of palm and grapefruit kumquat dressing ($16) and mustard-crusted
lamb loin with stuffed artichoke, farro, tomato confit and olive jus ($34). The
French and American wine list offers a plentiful selection of midpriced options.
There is also weekend brunch service and lunch will debut in the coming weeks.

TRY THIS: From 5 to 6:30 p.m. daily, La Silhouette offers a $38 three-course
prix-fixe dinner menu.

**   Hip Korean Hangout With Pedigree Danji, 346 W. 52nd St., between Eighth and
Ninth avenues; 212-586-2880

Named after the clay jars that Koreans use to store foods like kimchi, this tiny
newcomer exudes the youthful energy of a downtown hot spot. Service is friendly
and spot-on - as you might expect from a crackerjack crew led by chef-owner
Hooni Kim, a native Upper East Sider whose prior culinary gigs include sous-chef
at Masa and chef de partie at Daniel.

THE SETTING: A relaxed vibe and flattering lighting make this the perfect date
spot - while limited bar and communal seating attracts the after-work set.
Reservations are only accepted for large parties.

THE MENU: Traditional Korean flavors and quality ingredients are the hallmark of
small plates, divided into "modern" and "traditional" offerings. Be sure to try
the spicy bulgogi filet mignon sliders on perfect little buns ($14 for two).
There's also a creative cocktail list and a wine and beer menu that includes the
popular makgeolli - unfiltered rice beer that pairs well with many dishes ($8).

TRY THIS: Weekday lunch has just launched, with a dup-bop ("over rice") set menu
that includes soup of the day and two side dishes ($12 to $14).

**  Local Eats, World-Class Views Print Restaurant, Ink48 Hotel, 653 11th Ave.,
between 47th and 48th streets; 212-757-2224

Any apprehension you feel walking amid the tumbleweeds of 11th Avenue instantly
melts upon entering this pretty hideaway from restaurateur Adam Block - the
wheeler-dealer who helped create today's globetrotting celebrity chef. But
there's more substance than flash on the table, thanks to the seasonal New
American cooking of husband-andwife team Charles Rodriguez and Heather Carlucci
Rodriguez, who met while working with Bill Telepan at Judson Grill.

THE SETTING: Lots of wood and copper lend a burnished glow to the spacious
dining room. Be sure to grab drinks pre- or post-meal in the rooftop Press
Lounge, which features jaw-dropping views of the Hudson River and Midtown
skyline year-round.

THE MENU: The restaurant is so serious about its farm-to-table philosophy, it
employs a full-time forager to procure the freshest ingredients. Though the menu
is constantly changing, expect lots of lush salads, grass-fed meats and brightly
composed dishes. Brunch is available for those looking to escape the Ninth
Avenue crowds.

TRY THIS: A $39 three-course pre-theater prix fixe menu is available Monday
through Saturday from 5:30 to 7 p.m.

**  A Breezy Hamptons Touch Pier 9, 802 Ninth Ave., between 53rd and 54th
streets; 212-262-1299

Eric Hara, formerly the executive chef of the Oak Room and David Burke's
Fishtail, has transformed the old Aguadulce space into an American seafood
restaurant right next door to 9, his new comfort-food eatery. One of the latest
spots to hit the hood, Pier 9 still has some service kinks to work out. Assured
one evening, it was amateurish the next (e.g., an unbidden declaration that
"Tonight, we have no specials," intrusive wine pouring while an untouched
cocktail languished on the table till check time, etc.).

THE SETTING: The large room is casual yet elegant, with an ample bar-lounge and
more formal white tablecloth dining in back. We recommend the cheerier seats up
front, where you can kick back with a quartino of crisp muscadet ($10) and a
platter of oysters (six for $17) from the raw bar. Sidewalk seating and a small
courtyard will open when weather allows.

THE MENU: Occasionally veering toward gimmickry, the menu does fish-shack
classics and simply prepared seafood best - from tender grilled octopus ($12) to
a lovely whole branzino ($28). A lobster macaroni-and-cheese appetizer served as
six rich bites didn't skimp on the succulent meat ($12).

TRY THIS: A $35, 1½-pound lobster dinner with soup and salad is offered on
Sundays and all-you-can-eat mussels for $20 on Mondays. $5 draught beers are
available both evenings.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hell's Kitchen has come a long way, with luxe newcomers like Print
Restaurant offering high-class grub in the once grubby area. (N.Y. Post: Tamara
Beckwith) Ardent Ardesia supporters are growing in number. (Caitlin THorne
Hersey) Hooni Kim chose Hell's Kitchen as the site of his first Korean
restaurant. (Elion Paz) La Silhouette owners (from left) Tito Rahman and Sally
Chrionis and chef David Malbequi. (Jonathan Baskin) Pier 9's tasty seafood will
make you selfish with your shellfish. (Zandy Mangold) You'll be in 11th heaven
at Print's rooftop bar. (Zandy Mangold) MAP. Courtney Cowart, a maitre d' at
Press Lounge, shows off the heavenly view at the 11th Avenue rooftop bar. (Zandy
Mangold)  Hell's Kitchen has come a long way, with luxe newcomers like Print
Restaurant offering high-class grub in the once grubby area. (N.Y. Post: Tamara
Beckwith) Ardent Ardesia supporters are growing in number. (Caitlin THorne
Hersey) Hooni Kim chose Hell's Kitchen as the site of his first Korean
restaurant. (Elion Paz) La Silhouette owners (from left) Tito Rahman and Sally
Chrionis and chef David Malbequi. (Jonathan Baskin) Pier 9's tasty seafood will
make you selfish with your shellfish. (Zandy Mangold) You'll be in 11th heaven
at Print's rooftop bar. (Zandy Mangold) MAP.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 7, 2011 Tuesday

BEEF & LOBSTER SOURCE - SAC STAFF POOH-POOHED EXPERT WINNIE

BYLINE: KAJA WHITEHOUSE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 450 words


She was nicknamed "Poohster" after Winnie the Pooh, but former expert networking
consultant Winnie Jiau, on trial in Manhattan federal court for insider trading,
was far from warm and fuzzy, according to testimony yesterday from former SAC
Capital trader Noah Freeman.

Jiau, who's been jailed since her arrest in December, was slippery to get a hold
of, was disliked by Freeman's secretary and she didn't seem to appreciate the
gifts Freeman gave her, the 35-year-old Harvard graduate told the jury.

She was "very, very difficult to work with," Freeman, who has pleaded guilty and
is cooperating the prosecutors, said from the stand yesterday at the trial of
Jiau, the former Primary Global Research consultant.

Freeman's secretary's distaste for the Taiwan native was made clear in a 2007
e-mail to Freeman, alerting him that Jiau had failed to pick up 12 Maine
lobsters Freeman had sent her for Thanksgiving. The lobsters died.

"Typical Winnie to leave 12 lobsters to die at FedEx. She has no heart," the
secretary e-mailed Freeman about the gift, according to the Associated Press.

Still, Freeman continued to deal with Jiau and lavish her with gifts because she
provided him with "absolutely perfect" tips on stocks such as Nvidia Corp. and
Marvell Technology Group, Freeman told the jury.

Freeman said he paid Winnie up to $5,000 a month for her tips and lavished her
with other odd gifts -- including a $300 gift certificate to the Cheesecake
Factory and three iPhones.

Prosecutors say Jiau, who worked for Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing and was
deemed a flight risk, leaked confidential tips to traders in exchange for gifts
and more than $200,000 in fees through her role as a consultant for Mountain
View, Calif., expert networking firm Primary Global.

She is the first person associated with an expert networking firm, which has
been a focus of Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara's widespread insider trading
probe, to face trial.

Freeman said Jiau started giving him tips in 2006 when he was working for Boston
hedge-fund firm Sonar Capital Management. He then shared the tips with Donald
Longueuil, another former SAC fund manager, who has also pleaded guilty.

With Post Wires

----

Pooh done it?

Former SAC Capital trader Noah Freeman told a federal court jury yesterday that
Winnie Jiau (pictured), on trial for insider trading, provided "perfect
information."

According to Freeman:

* Jiau was nicknamed "Poohster" after Winnie the Pooh, even though she was
"very, very difficult" to work with

* Got Jiau a $300 gift certificate to the Cheesecake Factory and 12 lobsters

* Freeman's secretary said Jiau "has no heart" because she let the lobsters die
at FedEx

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Winnie Jiau.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 3, 2011 Monday

'Brutal' fire at Christie GOP rivals already sniping at NJ gov

BYLINE: Josh Margolin , S.A. Miller and Bob Fredericks

SECTION: ; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


He's feeling the heat.

Gov. Chris Christie's rivals opened fire yesterday as he continued mulling a run
for the White House - and the usually jocular Republican heavyweight was showing
clear signs of strain.

"It's brutal," one close adviser said of Christie's mood in reaction to the
harsh criticism aimed at him yesterday.

Christie made a presidential-like appearance reviewing the state's National
Guard troops.

He ignored reporters' shouted questions about whether he would run, and sources
in his camp insisted no decision would be made until today at the earliest.

But his GOP critics weren't wasting any time and tore into his record on
national television.

Republican hopeful Herman Cain called him "too liberal" for the party's base - a
preview of the main talking point his GOP rivals will try to utilize against
him.

"He's going to turn off a lot of conservatives," Cain said on "Fox News Sunday."

Cain charged that Christie's stances on gun control, global warming and
immigration don't match up with primary voters' views.

"I believe that a lot of conservatives, once they know his positions on those
things, . . . they're not going to be able to support him," said Cain, the first
Republican to take a shot at the governor.

Arizona Sen. John McCain, the 2008 Republican nominee, said Christie was similar
to the "flavor of the month."

"The swimming pool looks a lot better until you jump right in. The water may not
be quite as warm as you think," McCain said on CBS's "Face the Nation."

Still, McCain said he was a "great admirer" and the blunt-spoken governor would
be "a very viable candidate."

In public, Christie was all smiles during a formal "Pass in Review" event with
the troops in Sea Girt.

A chorus of Howitzers fired off a 19-gun salute traditionally reserved for a
head of state as a huge American flag flew overhead.

"These are certainly challenging times," he said during brief, off-the-cuff
remarks to the troops.

jmargolin@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUARDED MOMENT: New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie checks out the troops
yesterday at the Sea Girt National Guard Training Center, where he received a
19-gun salute.Brigitte Stelzer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Dems are O so afraid they'll win

BYLINE: fredric u. dicker and

SECTION: ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 370 words


Top Democrats have privately told GOP leaders that they want David Weprin
defeated in tomorrow's special congressional election for the Anthony Weiner
seat in order to send "a wake-up call to President Obama," a national Republican
strategist contends.

Strategist John McLaughlin, a key figure in businessman Bob Turner's hotly
fought and closely watched battle with Queens Assemblyman Weprin, said he's been
startled at how many prominent Democrats say they want the Republicans to win
the contest in the heavily Democratic Queens-Brooklyn district to put pressure
on the White House.

"It's really something. We have a lot of Democrats coming to us saying, 'We hope
Turner wins because if Obama doesn't change his policies, we're afraid we're
going to lose in 2012,' '' McLaughlin told The Post.

"They're supporting us as a way to send a wake-up call to President Obama and
their party so that there are huge implications nationally from this election,''
McLaughlin continued.

Former Mayor Ed Koch and Assemblyman Dov Hikind of Brooklyn, both Democrats,
have publicly backed Republican Turner because of unhappiness with Obama's
policies toward Israel.

But many other Democrats have far broader concerns as they privately express the
fear that the Obama administration's record of high unemployment, nonexistent
job growth and an uncertain business climate could lead to massive GOP victories
in next year's national and state elections.

Nervous city Democrats, meanwhile, have already begun pointing fingers at Rep.
Joseph Crowley, the Queens Democratic chairman, as the one most responsible
should Weprin, son of former Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, lose.

"Crowley wanted a candidate who wouldn't threaten to run against any of the
other neighboring Congress members if, as everyone expects, the seat is
abolished next year in congressional redistricting,'' said a prominent
Democratic activist.

"And he wanted to do something nice for the Weprin family, so he came up with a
terrible, terrible candidate, and we may pay the price on Tuesday,'' the
activist continued.

A stunning Siena College poll Friday showed Turner pulling ahead of Weprin, 50
percent to 44 percent.

fredric.dicker@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

GREATEST DISH IN THE WORLD

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 690 words


AI FIORI

(three stars)  ***

Setai Fifth Avenue Hotel, 400 Fifth Ave.; 212-613-8660.

THE butter-poached Nova Scotia lobster at Ai Fiori looked cute: knuckles of meat
red and round, snuggled up to baby carrots, turnips, rutabaga and a stray little
piece of loose crustacean.

I remembered butter-poached lobster at Per Se, and wondered: Can "Italian" chef
Michael White top the dish that Thomas Keller made famous, inspiring innumerable
copycats around the world?

One bite, and I forgot Keller. Critics like to crank up their metaphorical
machinery and learned jargon in a vain effort to convey the untranslatable
pleasures of the palate.

Ai Fiori's lobster is a dish to shut us all up. It's fine to know that it's
poached in buerre blanc, or to say its cohesiveness lies in the unexpected
mineral affinity between lobster and root vegetables.

All the words fall short. For those of us who enjoyed it more than once, White's
astice was just the greatest dish in the world.

White's at the zenith of his creative powers at "Riviera"-inspired Ai Fiori.
Some might howl that it's neither Italian nor French, but a mishmash for
tourists clueless about his Italianesque style. They'd have a point with Dover
sole, a $49 snore.

But for my money, Ai Fiori's best dishes top the ones at his celebrated Marea.
Expect to spend a bundle of your own: dinner with entrees $31-$49 can easily top
$150 a head. (The lobster is $37.)

The warm waitstaff knows its stuff. Roving sommelier Emilie Garvey guides you
smoothly through the rich wine list assembled by beverage director Hristo
Zisovski. Meet them now, before White's frequent travel and corporate strain
take their toll.

Ai Fiori sprawls on the second floor of the new Setai Fifth Avenue Hotel, up an
elliptical white staircase. Black-oak flooring, precious linen, tolerable art
and gauzy curtains over tall windows can't make a party out of a space as "world
capital"-institutional as it is comfortable.

Blue and green accents aspire to a "Mediterranean" look. There's no stuffiness,
but no sizzle, either. Avoid the room's Siberian south leg that stretches
forever; like many new eateries, Ai Fiori is just too damn big.

The menu, though, is much smaller than at White's previous places. Of a mere
four pasta choices, lengths of twisted, squid-ink trofie nero were tossed in
pitch-perfect shellfish ragout to which White lent his signature breadcrumb
crackle. Cotechino and tiny escargots had the run of toothsome risotto; parsley
purée bore a strong whiff of spring.

Executive chef Chris Jaeckle runs the kitchen with a sure hand. It sent out
"mare e monte," a sea-and-land dialogue "which we hope to become our signature."
Count on it. Identically sized circles of ocean scallops, black truffles and
celery root alternate in a marrow bone, topped with thyme and marrow and
finished with truffle vin: craftsmanship worthy of the greatest.

Glistening rouget crowned aromatic fish stew little resembling the rough
bouillabaisse of the south of France. The filets concealed a sea of black and
green olives and were sprinkled with crushed rosemary fleur del sel that
permeated every morsel.

The refined-rustic impulse popped up again in an ordinary-looking but luscious
veal chop. It came with a cabbage leaf enfolding luscious veal sweetbreads and
apple as finely diced as if they'd gone through a paper shredder.

Yet, some fish entrees, good enough, seemed to have taxied down from Marea.
Chicken was dry. Foie gras torchon wanted more thrills than a few spiced figs.

Robert Truitt's desserts give nothing away to the savories. A brief spike in
one's blood sugar seemed a small price for "tartaletta" of anise-tinted dark
chocolate ringed by grapefruit and hazelnut gelato.

The pleasure might not last forever.

White was "in Hong Kong scouting Asian markets," the waiter told us. His
corporate partner, Altamarea Group, just parted with savvy former partner Chris
Cannon and seems bent on global conquest.

But forget all that. In a venue feeling less like Anywhere, Earth, Ai Fiori
might deserve more stars than three. Pretend it's the Riviera, and let Mr. White
show you the stars.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chef Michael White's butter-poached Nova Scotia lobster is the dish. It
leaves a diner absolutely speechless. (Allison Joyce)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday

ALPHA- BITE CITY - THE ONCE GRITTY FAR EAST VILLAGE GETS REVITALIZED AS NEW
RESTAURANTS AND BARS SCORE AS AND BS

BYLINE: STEFANIE COHEN AND BRIAN NIEMIETZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 1093 words


1. AFFAIRE BISTRO & LOUNGE 50 Avenue B, between Third and Fourth streets  *
Opened: Jan. 2011 Owner Andrew Krauss, who is half-French, says he "wanted to go
back to his roots of French comfort food" when he opened Affaire. "I wondered
why French food always had to be either so stuffy or just plain bistro food. I
wanted to be more playful and approachable." The menu offers classics such as
beouf bourguignon ($21.95), but also French tapas such as duck meatballs and
Buffalo wing-style frogs' legs ($7.95). "They're better than chicken wings if
you ask me," he says. Signature cocktail: the French Poodle: Malibu Rum and gold
tequila, blue curacao and a splash of pineapple ($12)

2. GOAT TOWN 511 E. Fifth St., between Avenues A and B   *    Opened: Dec. 2010
Owner Nicholas Morgenstern is "bringing a little bit of Brooklyn to Manhattan"
with his new seasonal American fare restaurant, he says. (Funnily enough,
though, the name Goat Town comes from the word "Gotham.") Folks go crazy for the
oysters, but music lovers will appreciate the vinyl-only tunes. "The bartenders
play a whole record, not just a song. It gives the whole space texture," says
Morgenstern. Signature cocktail: the Goat Town, with Cardamaro, Carpano Antica,
lemon, raw sugar and a red wine float, $9 (left)

3. PERCY'S TAVERN 210 Avenue A, at 13th Street   *    Opened: Nov. 2010 Owner
Larry Watson moved to the East Village from Ireland in 1985 and got a job as a
building super on 11th Street, but says he's always wanted to own a bar where he
could showcase local artists. "The East Village is a mecca for artists," says
Watson, who named his bar after William Percy French, Watson's favorite "poet,
songwriter, artist and s - -t stirrer." Irish and gypsy bands, opera singers and
rock 'n' rollers all play there. Signature dishes: shepherd's pie ($14); fish
'n' chips ($14); Irish breakfast ($12)

9. BEDLAM  40 Avenue C, between Third and Fourth Streets   Owners Ben Maisani,
Pablo Raimondi and general manager Sam Chiera wheat-pasted pages of old
dictionaries onto the walls to add texture, while a family of taxidermic beasts
provides theatrical value. The elegant club offers a rotating crew of deejays
who play everything from Top 40 to rockabilly to disco and hip-hop for a crowd
that ranges from local folk to the Olsen twins and John Stamos (though not on
the same night, laughs Maisani. "It wasn't like a 'Full House' reunion.")
Signature cocktail: the Bedlam Cup with Pimm's, elderfl ower liqueur and a
splash of framboise ($11)

5. REVISION LOUNGE 219 Avenue B, between 13th and 14th streets  *   Opened: Feb.
2011 Longtime East Village bar owner Johnny B. (The Back Room, The Musical Box)
opened his latest to honor recycling. Everything in the space is made from
something else: bar stools from old skis, lamps from old instruments, sofas from
claw-footed bathtubs and coffi ns, bicycle-chain chandeliers and, the pièce de
resistance, a deejay booth made from the front end of a 1975 Lincoln
Continental, headlights on. "I was always an antique guy, and I was always into
recycling," says Johnny. Stop by to check out the cool décor, and hear the
history of the old East Village. (Do Delia's and Save the Robots ring a bell?
No? Talk to Johnny.) Signature cocktail: the Murder Inc. with pear vodka,
lillet, simple sugar, fresh lemon juice and Prosecco ($12)

4. EDI & THE WOLF 102 Avenue C, at Seventh Street  *  Opened: Dec. 2010 Chef
owners Eduard "Edi" Frauneder and Wolfgang "the Wolf" Ban of Seasonal in Midtown
have opened an Avenue C outpost for their Austrian fare. The warm, light-fi lled
restaurant is meant to evoke the "Heuriger," a casual Austrian wine tavern fi
lled with antiques and strange bric-a-brac - one chandelier is made from bullet
casings, another from a heavy old rope. A central harvest table fl anked by
banquettes makes the place seem like a home, albeit with a classically-trained
chef on hand. Frauneder says he wanted to show how approachable Austrian food
can be with traditional dishes such as the schnitzel ($19), "the workhorse of
Austrian cuisine."

10. OCTAVIA'S PORCH 40 Avenue B, between Third and Fourth streets  *  Opened:
Dec. 2010 Half-Jewish, half-Italian chef Nikki Cascone wanted to explore what
she calls "global Jewish" cuisine. "Jewish food goes beyond the New York deli,"
she says. "Jewish cooking is the fi rst fusion cuisine because Jews were always
exiled. People don't realize that there are Jewish pockets all over the world."
Signature dish: Matzo ball soup (left), which one Upper West Side woman sends
her driver to pick up weekly (small, $6, large, $10)

6. WHITE NOISE 225 Avenue B, between 13th and 14th streets  *  Opened: Aug. 2010
White Noise is bringing the freak back to the East Village. The bar's co-owner,
Luke Brian Sosnowski, says "New York needed an unpretentious rock bar with a mix
of a lot of people." That mix tends to include folks wearing masks and leather,
and even people who look like they stepped out of a J.Crew ad. The décor is
"luxe rock," except for the "Weirdo Room," which consists of a chair, a strobe
light and a TV. Oh, and the stripper poles get a bit of use.

7. CIENFUEGOS/EL COBRE/ AMOR Y AMARGO 95 Avenue A, between Sixth and Seventh
streets  *  Opened: Jan. 2011 This venture from the East Village craft cocktail
kings behind Death and Co. feels like little Havana.    Three different
Cuban-inspired venues fi ll out the space: El Cobre is a classic cocktail bar
offering swizzles, daiquiris and fi zzes. Upstairs, Cienfuegos offers rum punch
in single servings ($13) and bowls for sharing (from $30-$108). Next door, the
tiny Amor y Amargo is a general store that sells specialty bitters and
bitterbased drinks such as negronis ($12) and chef Luis Gonzalez's tapas tasting
menu (from $6-$10), featuring torta española and bean salad with tuna.

8. EL CAMION CANTINA 194 Avenue A, at 12th Street  *  Opened: Jan. 2011 Owner
David Duran began his food-service career as a delivery boy for Arriba Arriba,
on the Upper West Side, in 1987. He worked his way from busboy to waiter to cook
to general manager - and along the way met his wife, a fellow waiter and former
Rockette. Now he's realized his dream of having his own place. But he still
delivers twice a week. "That's how it goes when you're the owner!" he says. He
says no one can beat his fajitas ($14-$18), or his house margarita, made from
Patrón Silver and fresh-squeezed lime juice ($11.50). By using Patrón, he says,
he prevents his customers from waking up with an awful hangover - ensuring they
return.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: With taxidermy on the walls, Bedlam is Victorian meets curiosity shop.
(Astrid Stawiarz(2))  The Spice Truck Killer, a blend of rums, pineapple and
lime juices, is indeed lethal! (Tamara Beckwith/NYPost Eilon Paz) Owner David
Duran serves a smooth margarita. (Eilon Paz(2)) With taxidermy on the walls,
Bedlam is Victorian meets curiosity shop. (Astrid Stawiarz(2))  The Spice Truck
Killer, a blend of rums, pineapple and lime juices, is indeed lethal! (Tamara
Beckwith/NYPost Eilon Paz)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 13, 2011 Friday

TYCO'S TIME IS NEAR - GROUP BID MULLED

BYLINE: JOSH KOSMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 454 words


Schneider Electric is speaking to private-equity firms about partnering on a $30
billion-plus bid for Tyco International, The Post has learned.

The talks are still at a relatively early stage, and France-based Schneider has
not yet chosen the firms with which it would partner and, if they reached a deal
with Tyco, split the conglomerate's assets, two sources close to the situation
said.

There is also the possibility several PE firms will partner and make their own
offer for Tyco, a source said.

"[CEO] Ed Breen has made it pretty clear Tyco is for sale and he wouldn't object
to a bid," the source said.

Schneider, which has extensive US operations, last month announced it was not
"currently in discussions with Tyco International regarding a potential
strategic transaction between the two companies," reacting to a Wall Street
Journal story that said it had tabled a preliminary offer.

Tyco, whose management is based in Princeton, NJ, said in an April 28 earnings
call "it would not talk about market rumors" but added "it was open to options
that boost long-term value."

Schneider would want to buy Tyco's fire and security system divisions, while it
would be relieved if a PE firm took the valve division, analyst Brian Langenberg
said.

When Walmart puts up a building, they want to buy both security services and
fire safety equipment from the same manufacturer, he said, and that fits with
Schneider's infrastructure focus.

Yet Schneider would have little interest in Tyco's flow control business that
mostly makes high-end valves for oil pipelines and municipal water systems.

A private-equity firm would likely pay about eight times the flow control
division's EBITDA, or $4.5 billion, he said.

Schneider would likely have little interest, he added, in Tyco's 49 percent
stake in its electrical and metal products business that it still holds after
selling the rest of it last year for $713 million to PE firm Clayton, Dubilier &
Rice.

Tyco is in a cyclical downturn, making this a good time to buy and reap the
benefits when revenue and earnings rebound along with the economy, Langenberg
said.

If Tyco begins a formal auction, Langenberg believes Siemens, which is rolling
out a global cities platform, and United Technologies, whose head of business
development used to run UTX's fire and security business, could take a look.

"I don't think Tyco would go for less than $65 a share," he said.

Tyco yesterday closed down 19 cents to $49.50.

A Schneider spokesman declined to comment.

Tyco is perhaps best known for its former chief executive, Dennis Kozlowski, now
64, who was imprisoned after being convicted of looting the company. He is
serving an 8-1/3 to 25-year prison term in New York.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 22, 2011 Sunday

WHAT THE HELL?!? DOOMSAYER GRIPES: 'NOT MY MISTAKE'

BYLINE: HEATHER HADDON and DOUGLAS MONTERO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 646 words


That's a Wrapture.

When the world did not end at precisely 6 p.m. yesterday, Doomsday prophet
Robert Fitzpatrick's fragile grasp on reality crumbled.

"I don't understand why nothing is happening," said Fitzpatrick, flipping
through his Bible for clues to why Rapture failed to show up on time.

"It's not a mistake. I did what I had to do. I did what the Bible said," he
said, looking increasingly disheveled and confused as he stood in Times Square
before mocking crowds.

A kooky Christian cult predicted that corpses would line the streets and deadly
earthquakes would swallow up sinners beginning at 11:59 p.m. Jerusalem time on
May 21, 2011.

Fitzpatrick, 60, a retired MTA engineer who became the city's self-appointed
siren of the Apocalypse, spent $140,000 of his life savings on 3,219 bus, subway
and commuter-rail ads trumpeting the coming "global earthquake" and urging
sinners to repent to Jesus.

Fitzpatrick is a follower of Harold Camping, 89, an Oakland, Calif., evangelist
who promised that on Judgment Day the righteous would be sucked up to heaven
while sinners -  even children -  were to rot among fires, earthquakes and
tsunamis engulfing the Earth. People would slowly die off until Oct. 21, 2011,
when God completely KO'd the earth and all of its inhabitants.

Even cynical city dwellers got into the spirit of Doomsday, with New Yorkers
hawking T-shirts, holding Judgment Day parties and Mayor Bloomberg deadpanning
that he'd suspend alternate-side parking if the Earth crumbled.

Fitzpatrick's self-published tome on his predictions, "The Doomsday Code,"
earned $1,400 in royalties, he said. But his publicity stunt wasn't about
getting checks. On Judgment Day, after all, money wouldn't matter.

Yesterday, the doomsayer ate a simple breakfast of toast and righteous "Ezekiel
4:9 Sprouted Grain Cereal" at home and boned up on the word of the Lord with his
blue Bible. He tossed a few peanuts to squirrels in his back yard, though all
the animals were supposed to die later that day in a "fireball."

"I expect this to be my last meal," he said solemnly after a light lunch of
chicken tenders and spinach.

The gloomy Gus visited his sickly mother in a Staten Island nursing home one
last time and prayed to reunite with her when they went knock, knock, knockin'
on heaven's door.

After 6 p.m. came and went, Fitzpatrick blamed himself for the wrong date with
Doomsday, as "God is never wrong." He schlepped on the R train back to the
Staten Island Ferry and pondered his next step.

"I didn't water my plants, I didn't do my dishes before I left. I didn't expect
to go back home," Fitzpatrick conceded.  Additional reporting by Aaron Feis and
Annais Morales

COMEDIANS' 'LAST' CALL

"So . . . Jesus has to work just one day in 2,000 years and he doesn't show up.
This is why the Chinese are beating us." - "Family Guy" creator Seth MacFarlane

"If by Apocalypse they meant sunny and warm with a high of 73 degrees, then they
were right, THIS IS THE END!!!" - Actor Jim Carrey

"If you can't think of a Rapture joke, don't worry. It's not the end of the
world." - Actor Adam Sandler

"APOCO-UPDATE: It's 5/21 in New Zealand, and millions are being Raptured -
oddly, just sheep." - Former "Daily Show" writer Rob Kutner

"The Rapture will have no effect on the day-to-day operations and long term
plans of the Mets." - Twitter's @FakeFredWilpon

"I have to admit I'm always sort of secretly rooting for the Rapture. I felt
like a Red Sox fan. Next year." - Comedian Mike Birbiglia

"Hmm. This flame-retardant Rapture suit I bought off the guy at Pico and La
Cienaga looks an awful lot like long-johns." - Talk-show host Conan O'Brien

"Weird, heaven looks exactly like my house." - Twitter's @JellymuffinXOXO

"Went to Walmart Rapture Sale. Picked up an umbrella, some sandals, and a card
from the new Hallmark Repent Series." - Author Albert Brooks

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APOCALYPSE NO! Amid guffaws, Doomsday "prophet" Robert Fitzpatrick
(center), who spent $140,000 on Rapture get-the-word-out ads, counts down the
seconds to the realization that it isn't over till it's over -  and it's NOT
over! (Angel Chevrestt)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

Turkish delight goes downtown Pera opening SoHo outpost New digs at Broome and
Thompson

BYLINE: and

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 721 words


PERA, the popular Mediterranean-Turkish brasserie at 303 Madison Ave. at East
41st Street, is colonizing a forgotten SoHo corner.

In one of the year's more interesting restaurant deals, the Pera team will
launch a second Manhattan eatery at 54 Thompson St., where they've signed a
lease for about 5,500 square feet of indoor and outdoor space. Construction is
underway and owner Burak Karacam says he plans to open by late November.

Karacam said Pera Soho, at the corner of Thompson and Broome streets, will seat
200 in warm weather, when diners may eat in an alfresco courtyard next to the
building - which has an unusual history.

Once a slaughterhouse, the seven-story structure saw various uses but never was
a restaurant. A hedge fund bought it around 1999 to use for offices and a
"recreational facility" for its staff, Karacam said. The courtyard served as a
basketball court. In 2005, the address changed hands to a real estate
partnership.

To get all the necessary governmental and neighborhood blessings in an area
famously averse to new eating establishments - and to outdoor dining in
particular - "We went to the [city] with the landlord to make sure all was
kosher," Karacam said.

"We went to Community Board 2 maybe five times and we were in touch with the
SoHo Alliance and the Thompson Street block association," he said.

The courtyard has a 9-foot tall, opaque steel fence around it - which will
remain when the restaurant opens.

The new Pera will have a menu similar to the vividly flavored original but will
not be identical. It will be overseen by the same kitchen team, including chefs
Nathan Crouser and Metin Calisir.

In our annals of oddities, this one ranks near the top of the list.

Yesterday's New York Times carried an advertisement for a foreclosure auction of
the Courtyard by Marriott Hotel at 410 E. 92nd St.

The sale was being run by Jones Lang LaSalle's hotel unit, which touted "a rare
opportunity for an investor to acquire" a recently-built, 226-room hotel "in one
of the most highly sought real estate investment markets in the world."

The only problem? The ad said the auction was scheduled to be held at the
Manhattan state court building at 60 Centre St. at 2 p.m. on Aug. 24, 2011,
which was three weeks ago.

Huh?

In fact, the auction was not held on that date.

It was forestalled by a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by some of the hotel's
owners - who are at odds with each other as well as with GECC, holder of the
mortgage, which has been reported as $75 million.

Bloomberg Business Week reported earlier this month that a Bankruptcy Court
hearing had been set for yesterday to sort things out at the Upper East Side
hotel.

The outcome of the hearing wasn't known by press time.

What happens now?

And why the out-of-date ad? Nobody involved in the situation got back to us.

In just five months, the occupancy rate at 411 Lafayette St. has jumped from 50
percent to 100 percent, thanks to three new leases at Himmel + Meringoff's
109,500 square-foot boutique office address.

The new tenants are: New York University, which expanded its administrative
offices by 33,000 square feet; HQ Global Workplaces, which signed up for 16,000
square feet; and, Scandinavian retailer Dienst + Dotter, which is opening its
first Manhattan store in 3,500 square feet of ground-floor space.

Dienst + Dotter specializes in antiques, paintings and rare objects from the
17th Century to the mid-20th Century.

As expected, the Landmarks Preservation Commission voted yesterday to designate
the Borough Hall Skyscraper District in downtown Brooklyn, over some landlords'
objections. The designation covers 21 buildings, including the Muncipal
Building.

Luxor Capital Group signed an early renewal on 31,285 square feet at
Brookfield's 1114 Sixth Ave., the Grace Building. The new lease takes effect in
June 2013.

CB Richard Ellis's James Ackerson, Craig Reicher and Mary Ann Tighe represented
Luxor, which sources said was eager to lock in a rent at current market rates.

But what does that mean? No one involved in the process would cite even the
asking rent, and online databases only say it's "negotiable."

But brokerage sources said Brookfield has been aiming for $95 a square foot and
up for the small amount of space available on high floors.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PERA - Madison Ave. locale.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 2, 2011 Sunday

POLITICS ON THE BRAIN?

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 812 words


The data are in. The science has spoken. The proof is conclusive: Conservatives
are cowards.

No, really. We learned this fact from Prof. Geraint Rees of the University
College London, who says that after studying the brain scans of two politicians
and 90 students, he stands confi dent in declaring that in conservative minds
the brain's amygdala, which is associated with anxiety and emotion, tends to be
larger, whereas the anterior cingulate, which is associated with courage and
optimism, tends to be smaller.

So conservatives are - bwockbwockbwock! - chicken. Wussies.Namby pambies and
nervous Nellies, every one of us.

Well said, Prof. Rees! I'm not going to look at the details of this defi nitive
study - there aren't any, because it hasn't been published yet - which was
commissioned by the actor Colin Firth, who was serving as the guest host of a
radio program. I'm not going to ask whether 92 people is an adequate sample size
(90 students and postdocs in London? How many were conservative by American
standards?Six?) or how you account for the fact that people's political views
change, sometimes from one election cycle to the next. (When I was a student and
ardent Democrat, was my amygdala slimmer? Did America's centrist voters
reconstruct their brains in the last couple of years?)

I'm just relieved to fi nally have a real, honest, scientifi c answer to
something that's been nagging at me.

Rees has the answer to why, in my Army career, I kept running into so many
conceptual performance artists from San Francisco and Chelsea. Seldom did I do a
push-up or clean my M16 without fi nding myself amid heated debate from the offi
cer class about whether Walter Mondale or Eugene McCarthy was the most inspiring
American political leader of our era. And those drill sergeants! You know what
gave them that indomitable sense of authority? Their Boston accents.

John Wayne? The military can't stand the guy. Leave him for the liberals, those
avatars of "courage and optimism." This week's headline - "Conservatives Are
Scaredy Cats, Science Says" - sounded similar to those generated earlier this
fall when a UCSD scientist discovered what he believed was a "liberal gene."
Linking it to popularity in adolescence, he extrapolated what he admitted was a
hypothesis that liberals were pre-disposed to open-mindedness.

The scientifi c equation of liberalism and tolerance seemed to fi t a little too
neatly with pre-existing views of liberals held by liberals.Ask Ward Connerly or
David Horowitz about the openness of their reception when they tried to present
alternative views at liberal college campuses.

Anyway, don't liberals have fears too? Consider the meta-implications of this
recent headline in the New York Times: "Climate Fears Turn to Doubts Among
Britons." Translation: Britons are getting less scared - how terrifying!

Yet fear need not be irrational.That's why evolution hasn't stomped the fear out
of our brains.Almost everyone fears getting fi red, and that's a good thing: We
do our jobs better than if, say, we had tenure in a teachers union and could
only be fi red for having a garage full of stacked human bodies.(And even then,
only after due process with a series of warning letters, review panels and
appeals.)

Mainstream conservatives tend to fear things that have happened or are actually
happening: Islamist terror strikes, increasing government regulation, the
effects of massive illegal immigration. Mainstream liberals fear theoretical
things that are always just about to happen, e.g., catastrophic results from
global warming, widespread anti-Muslim bias and the Christian right's
slow-developing scheme to replace the Constitution with the Bible.

Prof. Rees' views - sorry, scientifi c results! - dovetail with those of his
fellow professor Barack Obama, who memorably informed us in October, "The reason
that our politics seems so tough right now, and facts and science and argument
does not seem to be winning the day all the time, is because we're hardwired not
to always think clearly when we're scared."

Fear leads to shoddy thinking. Conservatives are scared, hence stupid. This is
the polite way of telling those who disagree with you that they are bonkers, and
calling someone bonkers is a shortcut to dodging the facts, the science and the
argument. Who argues with a nutjob?

Prof. Obama's shellacking at the polls this fall was largely due to a sense that
he was governing too far from the left, that his administration was hostile to
business and slowing down the recovery, that the defi cit was too big and that
he wanted to raise taxes.

The day after the election, Obama grudgingly hinted that he was prepared to
reverse course on all of these matters. So either these points aren't outside
the realm of rationality or Obama, too, has gone nuts with fear. If the latter:
Did his amygdala just burst?

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 3, 2011 Monday

FLAB FIGHT PHASE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 594 words


Finally, the pounds-packing-on period - aka Thanksgiving to New Year's - is
past, and it's time to assess and repair the damage.

If getting fit is among your New Year's resolutions, Shape magazine is long on
inspiration, with several cool workout routines, including the always-necessary
piece on abs training. We also liked the butt workout by "Dancing With the
Stars" hostess, Brooke Burke, and the article on skin care by winter sports pros
dished up good tips of how to protect against wind damage and winter sun. We
also laughed at the advice on how to live better by acting more like a guy.
Burgers and beer, here we come!

At Fitness, if you believe its cover story, you can "Drop Two Sizes In Just 4
Weeks." It must be true; it's a promise told each year. For true believers,
there's even a story on how to dump your diet and still lose weight. Fitness
also goes a step further than its imitators, offering a free music download to
help pass the boredom of your workouts.

Fitness and fashion play second fiddle at Self, the mag for the mature woman,
who, say, turns 40, loses her boyfriend of five years and her job causing her to
rethink her life and make for a happy ending. (This feature actually appears in
the January issue.)

Women's Health doesn't exactly earn its title, or does so only insofar as it
speaks to the twentysomething self-improvement set. The feature on egg donors
does raises some important issues, though, by bringing up the idea of single
women in their 20s storing their eggs in case they do not meet their life
partners until much later. Oh, and Plano, Texas, is the best place to meet a
man: It has 1.39 men to every woman.

In the latest instance of the media coming clean about its complicity in the
botched war in Iraq, a New Yorker reporter admits that, in retrospect, he had
"little awareness of the media dynamics" surrounding the April 2003 toppling of
a massive statue of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad. We applaud this confession: that
there was foolish hype around the toppled statue, manufactured by the US
Marines, may seem obvious in retrospect. But since the war, the media's broad
reluctance to admit its failures in giving a balanced view of the events has
only compounded the damage. We also liked the feature on the growing craze for
psychoanalysis among China's upper class.

On the subject of foolish media hype, Time columnist Joe Klein complains that
the mainstream media's obsession with trivialities such as the "Sarah Palin
circus" is making it more difficult to deal with real threats like climate
change, a hobbled education system and the financial meltdown. Hear, hear. But
wasn't his own magazine that, for no apparent reason, put Sarah Palin on its
cover a few weeks ago and wondered aloud whether she'll run for president next
year? We're hoping Klein's column is a signal that Time has made a New Year's
resolution, but we're not placing any bets.

Like a self-help book advertised on late-night TV, Newsweek's cover story
promises "The Truth About How to Boost Your Brain's Performance." After reading
the article, we'd submit that reading Newsweek isn't among the prescriptions: in
addition to exercise and meditation, the mag advises readers to play video
games. This sort of fluff is regrettable because it obscures a few good pieces
elsewhere, including an analysis of President Obama's war record, which
concludes that he's "a lot more like [President] Bush than you think."

---

On the Newsstand

Self: 2 stars

Women's Health: 2

Fitness: 2 1/2

Shape: 3

The New Yorker: 2

Time: 1

Newsweek: 1 1/2

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday

THE RETURN OF O THE UNITER

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 593 words


AS I watched President Obama speak at the Tucson memorial, I had a vaguely
familiar sensa   tion. When he declared it  was time to stop laying "the blame
for all that ails the world at the feet of those who think differently than we
do," I had my eureka moment.

Welcome back, buddy. Where have you been?

The man who promised to unite the country has been missing for most of the last
two years. The impostor in the White House was too often a rancid partisan,
demonizing all who dared oppose his vast expansion of government.

He labeled critics "enemies," bankers, doctors and insurance companies were
greedy "fat cats," and only last month he called Republicans "hostage takers"
for not agreeing to his tax hikes on upper-income families.

It was an us-against-them campaign that never ended -  until Wednesday night.
Then, in the midst of unspeakable tragedy and unsettling rancor, Obama became
the uniter Americans thought they were electing in 2008.

Maybe it was the horror of the shooting. Maybe it was the shellacking in
November and a fear his presidency was in jeopardy.

Whatever it was, Obama rose to the occasion in magnificent fashion. He threaded
the needle of heading off the blame game, while paying emotional tribute to the
dead and wounded and lauding the heroes who saved lives.

Like many, I worried he would exploit the massacre for political gain, or excuse
his supporters who had.

He did neither. He directly rejected the liberal smear that conservatives had
created a climate of hate that led to the shooting.

"Let us remember that it is not because a simple lack of civility caused this
tragedy -  it did not," he said in one of many memorable passages.

In another: "None of us can know with any certainty what thoughts lurked in the
inner recesses of a violent man's mind."

Had he stopped there, it would have been sufficient. But Obama managed also to
infuse the mourning with a sense of possibility by focusing on 9-year-old
Christina Taylor Green, the youngest victim.

Noting she was born on 9/11 and her spunky delight in jumping in puddles, the
president seemed to fight back tears as he concluded. "If there are rain puddles
in heaven, Christina is jumping in them today. And here on Earth, we place our
hands over our hearts and commit ourselves as Americans to forging a country
that is forever worthy of her gentle, happy spirit."

The words will appear overly sentimental in history books, but in real time,
they marked a grown-up moment for a president who often seems unready for the
Oval Office. The question now is whether Tucson was an exception, or the
emergence of a chastened, maturing man ready to embrace the limits of his office
as well as its awesome responsibilities.

The midterm results narrow his running room, with GOP control of the House a
welcome check on Democratic power. Yet for millions of voters, the
disappointment in Obama was about his rigid partisanship as well as his
policies.

He squandered the opportunity to change the tone in Washington, and instead
became a big part of the problem. His consistent adherence to ideas far outside
the mainstream redivided the country.

While his critics are no shrinking violets, the fact remains that the presidency
comes with a unique burden. The office stands alone in its power and potential
to unite the country, and form a consensus around core principles.

Obama, for one night, fulfilled that potential. If he can maintain that spirit
for two years, America will be more united and better prepared to meet the
enormous challenges ahead.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WELCOME TO THE RAT RACE:First come reports of hotel bedbugs, then a
blizzard shuts down the city and now YouTube captures a rat crawling up a subway
rider. Helluva town, all right, though definitely not what Sinatra had in mind
with "New York, New York."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday

SOLDIER FIELD IS GRASS BACKWARD

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 438 words


Grand events deserve grand stages, but there are no illusions as to the quality
of the playing surface the NFC Championship Game will be played upon this Sunday
in Chicago.

"It's rough," Packers receiver Greg Jennings said. "It's probably one of the
worst - probably the worst in the league."

Those sure sound like fighting words as the longtime rival Bears and Packers get
set for battle for the right to represent the conference in Super Bowl XLV.
After all, defending the home turf is not just lip-service and no one enjoys
hearing their building trashed, especially by someone from Green Bay, of all
places.

Except that the Bears agree.

Quarterback Jay Cutler calls it the worst field in the NFL. Linebacker Brian
Urlacher admits, sadly, "The footing at Soldier Field has been horrible."

No, this is not the game field that was laid out back in 1924 and Soldier Field
has undergone virtually a complete renovation, but there's an arm-wrestle with
nature that cannot be defeated:

You try growing grass in Chicago in January.

While an old-fashioned title game featuring mud and dirt and grass stains sounds
appealing and jumps right out of the high-definition flat-screen TV, it has an
effect on virtually every player asked to slog through the mire. The fluffy
snowflakes that fell during last week's 35-24 Bears victory over the Seahawks
sure looked pretty, but the moisture didn't help the field one bit.

"I really don't think it's a big deal, frankly," Packers coach Mike McCarthy
said. "Both teams are going to play on the field."

This type of football could bear little resemblance to the exquisite brand the
Packers put on display last Saturday night inside the climate-controlled Georgia
Dome in Atlanta. Aaron Rodgers played pitch-and-catch with Jennings and his
other receivers as if it was a 7-on-7 drill in training camp, and after every
pinpoint pass was caught, the Packers had overwhelmed the Falcons, 48-21.

From ball in a mall, now it's ball in the muck.

"We all have to adjust," said Jennings, Rodgers' favorite target this season
with 76 receptions and 12 touchdowns. "Playing outside, playing inside is
totally different. When you're down there off that lake and that wind gets to
working like it typically does, it can change the way the ball is coming in
flight.

"Aaron throws a phenomenal ball already. But at the same time when you're
playing in those environments with those weather conditions you have to focus in
and the ball might dip on you a little bit. If you can overcome that aspect of
it, the field, the weather, the elements, it's a mental game. And that's how
we're going to win this game."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 24, 2011 Monday

STRICTLY BUSINESS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 835 words


With talk of a recovery more and more in the air, it's time to get down to the
business of business.

Aware that geniuses rarely stay in corporate cubicles, Inc. believes that our
high jobless rate could be a good omen for clever, wannabe entrepreneurs. The
magazine's target readers are mostly out on their own, or plan to be. Its
inspirational cover package, "Inside the Minds of Great Entrepreneurs," tells
why it's normal for them to go for broke, regardless of any economic climate.
One article aims to stimulate original thinking by showing how some solo
business folks developed real-life versions of Hollywood fantasies, such as
James Bond's underwater car and Batman's grappling hook.

Fortune is using its bright spotlight in hopes of chasing off the darkness of
being unemployed. Its cover is all about jobs, with a prediction of a likely
hiring boom for many. Its annual wrap-up, "100 Best Companies To Work For,"
assures us that they'll all be hiring, and lists their perks, pay and benefits
such as Goldman Sachs' 54,000-square-foot gym and sky lobby with a glass-tower
reading room. Indeed, hiring is under way at the favored firms, Fortune reports
in one of the cover package articles, "Over 150,000 Jobs Ready to Be Filled."
The issue also offers a good profile on Jack Dorsey, creator of Twitter, and his
mission to make accepting a credit card as easy as sending a tweet.

Fast Company's cover story of two hip-looking Chinese techies that announces
Beijing has its own answers to Facebook, YouTube and Twitter doesn't offer
anything new or surprising. Inside, though, play along with the clever thought
experiment on how to explain the Internet to a 19th-century English street
urchin. Now, that's funny! Also funny are the cartoon bears that cuss out
foul-mouthed comedian George Carlin. Fast Company fills us in on where the bears
can be found: at Xtranormal, which allows users to make their own animated
videos online.

As its clumsily constructed post-merger newsstand name suggests, there's a lot
going on within the pages of Bloomberg Businessweek. And that's not necessarily
a good thing for the business-focused weekly. To be blunt, there's just too much
going on and while some readers may appreciate the content overload, they're
bound to be dismayed by the eyestrain-inducing font sizes. That said, the
magazine offers a few pieces worth a gander. That includes Susan Berfield's
article on cheap chic fashion house Forever 21's rise. The article depicts a $3
billion West Coast clothing empire that has enjoyed a rapid ascent amid
accusations of shoddy labor practices and a policy of shilling inexpensive
trendy designer knockoffs.

Leave it to the out-of-sync New Yorker to ask, in bold letters atop its flap
cover: "Should football be banned?" We're not saying you've got to be a
flag-burning, tree-hugging communist to ask this question, and we don't mind
that this sensationalist headline is way overblown compared with what's actually
being discussed. We're just wondering, given the timing of Gang Green's dramatic
post-season run, how could this publication more aptly demonstrate that it's
hopelessly out of step with the spirit of the city in late January?

New York's essay on "The Remaking of the President" doesn't do much to advance
the chatter about what's wrong with the Obama administration. Nevertheless, we
get the succinct diagnosis that Obama "lost his storyteller's touch . . . his
apparent capacity to lift the country up and calm it down at the same time."
Fair enough, although we're not sure how cheered we were to read that Obama has
only recently recognized this problem. Elsewhere, we had to wince reading the
saga of Travis, the menacing Connecticut chimpanzee, "from coddled infant to
wine-swilling face mangler."

In contrast, Time takes a sleep-inducing approach to news of the week,
emphasizing that Tunisia has "nervous neighbors" as "the Arab world ponders the
lessons of its first successful popular uprising." Inside, it's similarly
sleepy: Geithner in China, concussions in kids' sports and Natalie Portman in
the movies. We must admit, however, that we couldn't help but read the piece on
the "Tiger Mom Manifesto," which pictures Yale Law Professor Amy Chua drilling
her two daughters in music lessons at her Connecticut home.

Whether it was an orderly process or not, Newsweek's flopped redesign has been
pretty much tossed aside. Gone is the appetizer of arid updates on wars and
plagues and riots in countries most Americans prefer not to hear of. Gone are
the columnists, packed side-by-side into a gray, dozen-page section of opinion,
with George F. Will sucking away all the oxygen. What we get is a grab bag: a
six-way interview with top Oscar prospects; a breakout story on the upheavals at
Apple and Google. This is a grab bag that we liked for a change.

---

On the Newsstand

Inc.: 2 1/2 stars

Fortune: 2 1/2

Fast Company: 2

Bloomberg Businessweek: 1 1/2

The New Yorker: 2

New York: 2

Time: 1 1/2

Newsweek: 2

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

NEW YORK'S BUDGET A SHAM - GOV ON 'DEFICIT' DECEIT

BYLINE: Andrew Cuomo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 980 words


AS ATTORNEY General, I uncovered schemes by lenders to exploit students, plots
by insurance companies to defraud patients and attempts by Wall Street to
deceive homebuyers.

In the past 30 days, as I have prepared the state's budget, I was shocked to
learn that the state's budget process is a sham that mirrors the deceptive
practices I fought to change in the private sector.

The budget process is a metaphor of Albany dysfunction: special interests
dominate the process with little transparency; programs continue with no
accountability and the taxpayers get the exorbitant bills. The greatest
challenge - and opportunity - in this year's difficult budget is to expose this
chronic problem and reform it once and for all.

Here's how it works. This year it is widely accepted and often reported that the
state has a $10 billion "deficit" (I myself have often repeated this number).
What does that mean? It is the difference between state revenues and the state's
growth in spending in next year's budget.

The next question is: who is responsible for setting the growth in the state's
budget? The answer is shockingly, no one. It is dictated by hundreds of rates
and formulas that are marbleized throughout New York State laws that govern
different programs - formulas that have been built into the law over decades,
without regard to fiscal realities, performance or accountability.

The formulas operate year after year, generating liabilities that when totaled
define the state's budget growth. The one thing the rates do well is increase
year after year. These formulas (predominantly in education and Medicaid
funding) are often inserted into the law by pressure from well-connected special
interests and lobbyists.

When a governor takes office, in many ways the die has already been cast.
Unbelievably, this year these rates and formulas in total call for a 13 percent
increase in Medicaid and a 13 percent increase in education funding next year.

A 13 percent increase, in this economic climate, is wholly unrealistic.

Wouldn't you like your salary or savings account to be based on a formula that
gave you a 13 percent increase even though inflation was under 2 percent? The
world doesn't work that way - except in Albany.

Besides dictating numbers, this process frames the dialogue around the budget
and biases the political discourse.

First, the rate of increase is rarely discussed. The 13 percent increase this
year is close to a state secret. I spoke with numerous experienced Albany hands
who had no idea the programs increased 13 percent.

In Albany speak, "deficit" means the amount needed to fund the 13 percent
increase (as opposed to a normal rate of increase). For example, if one assumed
these programs would increase at the rate of inflation (instead of 13 percent)
the $10 billion deficit is really a $1 billion deficit.

A "cut" is then defined as anything less than a 13 percent increase. By forcing
the debate to start with such a large hike, the final budget ends up spending
much more than the year before - even after the Governor attempts "cuts."

For example, what is called a 7 percent cut in spending is actually a 6 percent
increase over the prior year. The expression used to explain this budget process
is that the rates are in "permanent law," and thus, cannot be changed.

"Permanent law" is a term to suggest differentiation from the state's annual
budget bills which are "temporary" as they only exist for one year.

This "permanent law" is really the way the "permanent government" of lobbyists,
special interests and political friends manipulates the entire system and
misleads the public in the process.

This is the system that has brought New York to the brink, and it is why we are
the highest "spending-and-taxing" state in the nation with programs that fail to
perform for the people.

This all must end.

We need fundamental reform in the budget system that allows us to recalibrate
spending this year to a sustainable level and replace "the special interest
protection program" of automatic, unrealistic increases.

There is no such thing as "permanent" laws and they must all be reviewed and
replaced or modified when necessary.

The state budget should increase based on objective, fair criteria such as the
rate of inflation, enrollment, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) or personal income
growth. Programs should be reviewed for effectiveness and terminated if they are
not working well.

Reimbursement rates should be negotiated to get the best bargain. Performance
should be measured. Albany must give up its insistence on pleasing the special
interests rather than serving the people.

This is the real budget battle that I will wage this year. We must balance this
year's budget but we must also reform the process so that the cycle finally
stops.

This year's budget is not merely about the numbers. It's about our values and
our future.

---

'The budget process is a metaphor of Albany dysfunction.' - Gov. Cuomo  (m)

'This is the system that has brought New York to the brink ... This all must
end.'  - Gov. Cuomo  (s, lcf)

Albany's new math

The deficit: $10B deficit projected by State Budget Office for 2011-2012 fiscal
year.

Spending increases: $8B is Medicaid and school aid spending mandated by state
law.

Inflation: $1-2B represents real increased costs and inflation over the current
year.

Medicaid: For the current 2010-11 fiscal year, Medicaid spending in New York
state hit $53.79 billion, including $14.37 billion in state funding. The state
share is expected to rise dramatically due to reduced federal funding and cost
increases pushing state's share to hit $26 billion in five years.

School aid: State aid to local school districts this year was about $20 billion,
but is slated for large cuts to close the deficit for the upcoming fiscal year.

Source: Gov. Cuomo's New York Medicaid Redesign Team

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Teacher with student in class. -IT'S A COOKED BOOK! Gov. Cuomo, here
at his Capitol office yesterday, says he has found deep flaws in the budget
process.  [AP] -Teacher with student in class.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 22, 2011 Tuesday

LADY IS A CHAMP - ROCKS MADISON SQUARE GAGARDEN

BYLINE: DAN AQUILANTE

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 323 words


SHORT of blowing herself up on stage, it keeps getting harder for Lady Gaga to
top herself.

Last night at Madison Square Garden, in front of packed house that included Sir
Paul McCartney, the reigning Queen of Outrageous wore revealing frocks, sprouted
wings, was soaked in fake blood and dressed as a naughty nun. Yeah, it was just
another day at the office for Gaga.

The big arrive-in-an-egg moment, as in her Grammy entrance, never arrived at the
first of two MSG gigs being taped for a single May 7 broadcast on HBO. At this
show on Gaga's never-ending "Monster Ball" tour, much was familiar from last
year's four-concert stint at MSG.

Still, despite knowing what was coming, fans weren't disappointed.

Gaga made the show feel fresh with massive energy and an array of costumes -
some new, as well as her old risqué favorites: lingerie, body suits, dresses
with angular cuts, and provocative gauzy numbers where fashion and attitude
collided.

In all, there were 15 costume changes over the course of the two-hour gig, which
helped Gaga create an anything-goes climate - erotic and exotic.

If there were moments where Gaga looked more ridiculous than revolutionary, they
weren't noticed by the sold-out crowd, which cheered louder the more outlandish
her fashions became.

The staging had a circus-meets-Rocky-Horror quality. The Monster Ball is still a
loosely theatrical event, where Lady Gaga vamps her way through her familiar
songbook to the notion of getting back home to New York City so she can attend
the ball.

The real difference between this and last year's shows was how tightly crafted
the dance numbers were. Gaga's singing was also on, but her between-song banter
was crude, profanity laced and rambling.

There were moments when she was soloing at the piano, like during her new ballad
"You and I," when it seemed she might have been just as engaging without the
tonnage of razzle-dazzle and racks of sexy duds.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Good night, naughty nurse! Lady Gaga is bare-ly there at MSG last
night.  [Kevin Mazur/WireImage]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

GORE MAKES MOVE TO RANDOM HOUSE'S MEACHAM

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 765 words


NOW former Vice President Al Gore is dumping his publishers, Rodale and Penguin,
and jumping to Random House for his next book, a yet to be titled tome due
sometime next year.

Andrew Wylie at the Wylie Agency served as the agent for Gore. He will be the
first author to work with Jon Meacham, the former Newsweek editor-in-chief who
landed as an executive editor at the publishing house after leaving the magazine
prior to its sale by the Washington Post Co. to electronics mogul Sidney Harman.

Gore, who won the Nobel Prize for his work on climate change, published his
first book, "An Inconvenient Truth," to accompany his documentary of the same
title.

At the time, having a companion book to a heavy, thought-provoking movie was
considered something of a gamble. But it ended up as a best-seller, as did his
follow-up for Penguin, "The Assault on Reason," which sold about 350,000 copies.

Gore also did a smaller book for Rodale, "Our Choice," which landed on
bestseller lists.

Meacham believes Gore's next book has the potential to be an even bigger
blockbuster.

"This will have a wider reach. He's already a writer with a big following and
this will give him a bigger canvas," Meacham said.

Kushner's beat

Observer Media Group owner Jared Kushner has just launched Betabeat.com,
covering what he sees as a booming New York City tech scene.

The tech addition is seen as the first of several new vertical sites to be
launched by the owner of the salmon-colored weekly, The New York Observer.

It's also the first significant Web rollout since Kushner bounced Kyle Pope as
the editor-in-chief of the newspaper and replaced him with the founding editor
of Gawker, Elizabeth Spiers.

At the time, sources said that one source of tension between Pope and Kushner
was the owner's desire to push more Web-based products into the market and
downplay the print version and long-form journalistic pieces that had helped put
the Observer on the map.

Kushner insisted that line of reasoning is off base. "We're not downplaying the
print edition," he insisted. "We're trying to give a much better mix of shorter
stories up front and longer features in the middle [of the Observer].

And while turnover and ousters were fairly routine in Pope's tenure of less than
a year, Kushner insisted that he will be adding staffers in the weeks ahead,
saying, "We have offers out to several people."

Kushner said next up is a redesign of the Observer's Web site. After that, he
said he is studying three or four possible new vertical sites to round out the
Observer Media portfolio.

It's not the first time Kushner has outlined an ambitious Web strategy. He
originally envisioned using politicker.com as the footprint for a national
rollout of political Web sites tied to the 2008 presidential election.

But that plan was largely scrapped in the ensuing recession of 2008, and 17
sites shut down suddenly in late 2008. Now, only Politickernj.com lives on as a
high-priced subscription-supported Web site. And he also predicted yet again
that the 50,000-circulation Observer - which was losing about $2 million a year
when he took it over from founder Arthur Carter four years ago - is on the brink
of turning an annual profit.

Net designs

Jimmy Finkelstein, owner of The Hill and an investor, along with Guggenheim
Partners, in the $70 million purchase of Adweek, Billboard and The Hollywood
Reporter in 2009, seems to be quietly expanding his media holdings.

He recently has acquired Web site "I Want Media" from founder Patrick Phillips.

The deal is being made by Finkelstein as an individual and is separate from his
ownership of The Hill or his investment in Prometheus, the holding company for
Adweek and sister mags, according  to Phillips, who is an adjunct  professor at
New York University.

"Jimmy Finkelstein and I have talked about a business relationship on and off
for a few years. He has even sat in on my undergraduate digital journalism
course at NYU," said Phillips.

"It's not the first overture over the years," he added. "I have participated in
many talks of acquisitions and partnerships for I Want Media over the years."

None of them came to fruition until now. "I think this deal makes good sense for
both of us," said Phillips, who started I Want Media as a one-man Web site in
2000.

Phillips said he will continue to run the site for Finkelstein, who seems to be
expanding his Web holdings. He earlier backed former Fairchild CEO Michael Coady
in the launch of the fashionetc.com Web site that hired Charla Lawhon, the
former group editor of In Style, to be its editor.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

THE EXTRA GREEN MILE - DOWNTOWN COUPLE TAKES ECO-FRIENDLY TO NEXT LEVEL; EARTH
CONTROL

BYLINE: MAX GROSS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 905 words


WHEN Jesse and Amanda Glickenhaus were first settling into their apartment at
the Visionaire in Battery Park City, Amanda laid down the law for her husband:
"You can find a composter without worms." Jesse, who teaches NYU students about
climate change, had used real worms in his compost when he was a student at
Dartmouth, and he wanted to try the same thing in the new apartment.

His father put it more succinctly: "You can compost with worms - or you can have
a wife."

So, Jesse bought a worm-free NatureMill composter, which he installed in the
kitchen, and married Amanda last year.

Not too bad a compromise. Especially when you consider that the Glickenhauses
have not only bought an apartment in one of the most eco-friendly buildings in
the city, but also decided to go the extra green mile.

The three-bedroom, 1,700-square-foot condo (which cost around $1,850 per square
foot) is a living, breathing temple to earth-conscious living and design.

The Glickenhauses decided to outfi t the apartment with green furniture and
materials, but realized the task would be quite daunting.

"It would be a full-time job," Jesse says.

So, they reached out to Robin Wilson of Robin Wilson Home (robinwilsonhome.com),
an interior designer who helped the Glickenhauses create a place where they
could "entertain their friends in a comfy environment - not a museum," she
explains.

Wilson scoured Ligne Roset, Holly Hunt, Maurice Villency and Room and Board to
find green treasure. At ABC Home, she came across ottomans made out of canvas
recycled from fair trade coffee bags. She found leather chairs for the living
room that were tanned not with chemicals, but with vegetable oil. Even the
coasters and picture frames are made out of recycled magazines.

"I think Amanda had a perception that everything would be made out of hemp,"
Jesse says. "Or bamboo."

"My view was it can be green," Amanda says, "but it has to be nice, too." It's
impossible to argue that their apartment isn't nice. Aside from jaw-dropping
views of the Statue of Liberty and Hudson River from their floor-to-ceiling
windows 27 stories up, the apartment is tasteful in an unshowy, minimalist way.

Along the walls are framed underwater photos, which Jesse took when he was in
Palau and are back-lit with LED lighting. "It's a way to throw a lot of light
into the living room with very little electricity," he says.

And while the furniture is carefully screened for its carbonneutral bona fi des,
the chairs and couches are still comfortable and stylish.

"It's probably 10 to 15 percent more expensive," Jesse says. "No more than 15
percent. It's a little bit like comparing apples to oranges; the question is,
are you buying at IKEA, or are you buying nice stuff? If you're looking at the
nice stuff, it's no more than 5 percent more expensive." (However, Jesse adds,
IKEA does some very ecofriendly stuff.) And, Wilson adds, since starting the
project in 2009, eco-friendly products have only gotten cheaper and easier to
find.

The Visionaire is itself a great monument to green living. When a reporter with
severe dog allergies enters the Glickenhaus apartment, he is immediately greeted
by their blond mutt, Molly, who erupts in a mighty shake, shedding hair on the
floor. (The floors are made from Forest Stewardship Councilcertified wood, of
course.) But the air at the Visionaire is doublefi ltered, and two hours later,
the reporter has not sneezed or coughed once. (Molly was not feeling well during
NYP Home's tour, and later threw up. Jesse immediately seized Green Home
Cleaners products to wipe away the mess.)

The building has what a buyer has come to expect from an LEED-certifi ed
building (the Visionaire's rating is platinum). It means bamboo wood for the
kitchen cabinets (bamboo grows quickly and is easily replaceable), recycled
glass tiles in the bathroom and Energy Star appliances.

("The only thing bad is the dishwasher - it's so quiet I don't know when it's
done," Jesse says. "I go, 'I guess it's done.' ") The building's roof collects
rainwater to use in its plumbing, and a good chunk of its electricity (35
percent) comes from renewable energy sources. Plus, half the building's
materials came from within a 500-mile radius, further reducing its carbon
footprint.

Back in the Glickenhaus household, the decorating continues. Over the next
couple of weeks, they're getting plants, pillows and a hand-woven carpet from
India made out of nontoxic vegetable dyes.

"This is not done yet," Amanda says about the process.

Given all that the Glickenhauses added to their pad, one wonders, is this the
greenest apartment in the city?

Wilson has seen many ecofriendly apartments. The most she'll concede is, "They
were an informed consumer.

They still had questions, and they very much did their own research."

So, get ready to start thinking creatively about your compost.

----

* SOFA Reese L from Room & Board, $3,800

* WINDOW Low-E double glass that keeps out UV rays

* PAINT Low V.O.C. from Benjamin Moore

* FLOOR Rift-cut oak made out of FSC-certified wood

* CHAIRS Tanned with vegetable oil from Holly Hunt, $3,800

* TABLE Reclaimed steel from ABC Home, $3,000

* TILES Made out of recycled glass

* CABINETS Made of bamboo, which grows back quickly

* COMPOST NatureMill PlusXE from WilliamsSonoma, $299

* FRAME Made out of recycled magazines from Two's Company, $25 to $45

* OTTOMAN Recycled coffee bags from ABC Home, $3,000

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jesse and Amanda Glickenhaus; apartment. [Photos by ZANDY MANGOLD]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday

MELTING THE ICE - SUCCESS TURNED THE GANGSTA INTO A COP. BUT REGRETS? HE HAS
NONE

BYLINE: SUSANNAH CAHALAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1613 words


ICE

A Memoir of Gangster Life and Redemption - from South Central to Hollywood by
Ice-T and Douglas Century (Ballantine Books)

Some criminals hit rock bottom before they clean up their act. Ice-T hit the
top.

Early in his recording career, as he was beginning to make a name for himself in
the Los Angeles rap scene, Ice-T was still "hustling" to maintain his super-fl y
image. He had a Porsche, but didn't feel like paying $500 for a part to fi x the
roof of his cherry-red convertible.

So he did what he knew best. He located a stolen Porsche and ratcheted into its
canvas tarp. Suddenly, he heard screams coming from the apartment above. For a
split-second, he thought he was busted.

"Ice-T! Ice-T!" a group of 10 or so kids with paper and pens yelled. "Yo, sign
this, Ice!"

It took that moment for Ice-T to realize, "I can't do this anymore. I'm too
famous to steal."

That's just one of the many times in Ice-T's memoir when the private Tracy
Marrow and the public Ice-T clash. He's a rapper who made his image off of being
"West Coast" even though he spent his adolescence in a New Jersey suburb; got
rich off a song called "Cop Killer," but plays a detective on TV; calls himself
a pimp but actually claims to be a very loving, monogamous husband (albeit to a
human Barbie Doll). His most gangster behavior to date? He was arrested last
year outside of the Lincoln Tunnel for driving with a suspended license - the
charges were dropped.

Along the way, Ice-T has become, like so many rap pioneers, something he used to
mock. His contemporary, former NWA member Ice Cube, went from "F - - - the
Police" to "Are We There Yet?" Dr. Dre now shills for Dr Pepper.

Ice-T and his ilk may be OG (Original Gangster), but now they're OG (old guys).

Ice, Ice baby

Born in Newark in 1958, Marrow and his parents relocated to the upscale, mostly
white suburb of Summit, NJ.    Although Ice-T says he didn't experience overt
racism in the town, he says he did see the ugly side of suburbia, although he
was "light-skinned" enough to "pass" like his mother, whom he believes was
Creole. "I was still considered 'white enough,' " he says, "or maybe they were
just confused about what exactly I was."

From third grade on, his life would change tragically. Over the course of four
years, he would lose his mother and father - both to sudden and unexpected heart
attacks - leaving him orphaned and without any immediate family. He didn't cry
when his parents died.

"I just wasn't built like that," he writes. "Wasn't wired like that. I didn't
have an ounce of self-pity in my bones."

Without a place to live in New Jersey, Ice-T was shipped off to South Central to
live with his alcoholic aunt.

Cold as Ice

Once there, he attended Crenshaw High, which the media had dubbed "Fort
Crenshaw" because of the ongoing gang wars between the Bloods and the Crips.
Although the suburbbred Ice wasn't necessarily ready for the rough life, he
quickly caught on and became by proxy a member of the Crips, which ran the
school.

"That's why I always claim West Coast. I didn't kick up any dust back East. I
was a late-bloomer in this criminal game," he says.

It was at Crenshaw where he got his name. Because he was a big fan of reformed
pimp and author Iceberg Slim, the Crips in South Central would often say to
Tracy, "Yo, kick some more that s - - - by Ice, T." And the image was born.

Ice began to get involved with petty crimes, stealing car stereos, selling bags
of weed, but never drank, smoked or did drugs. It wasn't the stealing that
appealed to him, it was the brotherly love, something he had not experienced
since his parents had passed. "Yes, the fi rst I really heard love expressed was
with the Crips. Not only heard the word 'love' but saw it fi rsthand. Saw it
manifested. Saw that if you f - - - with one of us, you f - - - with all of us.
That's very enticing."

After graduation, he joined the Army, half for the money and half to get away
from the crime-infested streets.

The "OG"

After four years in the service, however, Ice-T returned to a life of crime,
this time with larger-scale, orchestrated robberies, mostly of high-end jewelry
and clothing stores. The team would hit places up-anddown the Pacifi c Northwest
coast, Utah, and Arizona - one time when robbing a mall, he almost got gunned
down by a security guard whom he had mistakenly believed was unarmed. But he
never enjoyed it. "I hated stealing so much that I did it with a passion," he
writes. " 'Cause I hate the fact that I'm robbing. I'm not just taking a little;
I'm taking everything you got."

(Not that he apologizes for that time in his life. Though the subtitle in the
book mentions "redemption," Ice-T doesn't regret his life of crime, saying it
made him who he is. That is, rich).

It was around this time, during the height of his criminal career, that he first
heard The Sugarhill Gang's 1979 hit "Rapper's Delight." It gave meaning and
importance to the "Crip Rhymes" (with lyrics like, "So we fell to the ground
aiming for his head. One more shot, n - - - - was dead") that he had written
during his high school days.

One day, when he was getting his hair done at the Good Fred Beauty Salon, he was
rapping to the girls, "I'm the hula dula, the whorehouse ruler" when a man
approached him.

"Yo, player," Willy Strong from Saturn Records said. "You want to make a
record?"

His first record, "Cold Wind-Madness," as Ice-"T," was quickly pressed and
became an overnight hit at the local clubs in 1983. Shortly after his Porsche
fiasco, he decided it was time to pick music over crime.

But that didn't mean he couldn't talk about his former life in his new music.
With the seminal song "6 in the Morning," about fleeing from the cops, Ice-T
created the gangsta rap genre and became a symbol of West Coast player life. "I
didn't call it 'gangsta' or 'hardcore.' To me it was the life I was living. If
anyone asked me at the time, I'd call it 'reality rap,' " he writes.

"Cop Killer"

Later, Ice-T decided to switch gears and surprise his audiences with a new genre
of music, "rap rock," with his group Body Count, inspired in part by his
(surprisingly) favorite bands, Black Sabbath and the Talking Heads (specifically
the song "Psycho Killer"). He earned his most notoriety with the song "Cop
Killer" (lyrics include: "I'm 'bout to bust some shots off/I'm 'bout to dust
some cops off.") He didn't think much about it after he recorded it. A year
after the song was released, he got a call from his friend.

"Yo! Check the TV! The president is on the news, talking about 'Cop Killer'!" It
wasn't the President, but Vice President Dan Quayle "looking pissed."

"At first it seemed stupid to me.    Petty and ridiculous," he writes. "First
off, it wasn't a novel concept. There'd already been a group out called Millions
of Dead Cops. There's been a movie out called 'Cop Killer,' a book called 'Cop
Killer.' "

But the political and social climate was rife with anger over police brutality -
and cops had enough. Bowing under pressure, Time Warner and Ice-T agreed to
re-release the album sans "Cop Killer" and the label let Ice-T out of his
contract.

He insists that it was meant as a protest song and even backpedals, distancing
his own beliefs from that of the song. "It was a scenario. It wasn't my personal
view. I wasn't calling on cops to be killed. The character was saying, 'F - - -
police brutality.' "

Nevertheless, the resulting infamy opened another door for a man straight out of
South Central: Hollywood.

"Law & Order"

Before "Cop Killer," Ice-T had been cast as a cop in the 1991 movie "New Jack
City." He didn't seek the role out, he writes, it was handed to him at a club by
the director. He had reservations: "I'd been a criminal. I'd been representing
the criminal life in my music. How could I flip the script now?"

But as he started acting more, he grew to enjoy it. Over the next few years, he
would guest star on a number of shows before he was cast as Detective Odafin
"Fin" Tutuola on "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit."

But just before he was relocated to New York City to join the cast, he got a
literal blast from the past. An old friend from the South Central years visited
him and, surprise, oversaw an armed robbery at his Hollywood office, stealing
his Rolex Presidential, gold medallion and his $70,000 ring. His old friends
offered to "take care" of the friend, but Ice-T refused. He was now above that.
Now the target of robberies, playing a cop on TV, and living the high life - he
is still sensitive about people who call him a hypocrite.

"Listen, when you're in the life of crime, it's true, you feel like you're in a
fraternity. There are people out there that really love to break the law," he
writes. "But I never was that kind of cat. I didn't hate the police. As a matter
of fact, I think if you're a real crook, you better have respect for the cops.
Otherwise you're gonna get caught." While playing a cop on screen, he also met
his future wife, Playboy model Coco, a Valley Girl. When he first met her, he
was unimpressed. "I started putting her into the white-girl zone, thinking she
was superskinny with fake titties." But when he saw her hourglass figure - a
caricature of a woman at 39-23-40 - he was smitten, taking her on as a "Sharon
Osbourne"type mate. He had originally only agreed to do four episodes of "Law &
Order" but stayed on for 11 years and counting. He had originally not wanted to
get married, but has been so for 10 years.

The gangster life has changed. "I got news for you, dog. The system is a
monster. Sooner or later you're going to have to learn how to work it," he
writes. "Even if you're a gangster, there is still a system."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Today, Ice-T plays a cop on "Law & Order" (here with Mariska Hargitay)
and is 10 years married to wife Coco. (Getty Images) Ice-T in 1992, when he
released "Cop Killer." (Neal Preston/Corbis)  Today, Ice-T plays a cop on "Law &
Order" (here with Mariska Hargitay) and is 10 years married to wife Coco. (Getty
Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday

SHIRLEY SHE'LL CONFESS

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 816 words


SHIRLEY MacLaine's everywhere. Turn on TV, she's there. Put on radio. She's
there. Open a magazine. She's there. She's like crabgrass.

"Because I'm selling my new book  'I'm Over All That - And Other Confessions.' "

Ask like what confessions, it's: "Who knows? I can't remember what I wrote. Read
the thing yourself. Listen, I love writing. I don't use computers. I can't see
the damn screen. I do longhand and make changes in a school composition book. I
write anywhere. My car, the back porch. This took only six weeks because I knew
what I wanted to say.

"I work four pages or four hours a day. If I can't finish four pages, then I
keep going four hours. It's like a dancer. Once in trim, you just go out and do
it.

"I live in Santa Fe with 12 dogs. I do all the work myself with no assistant or
secretary. My last secretary ran away with some guy. Housekeeper's once a week.
I cook, clean, weed the vegetable garden. My house has solar energy. It's a
self-sustaining lifestyle. And every f - - ker has my cell number."

I know Shirley 4,000 years. So how's she celebrating her birthday next week?

"Family's not around. Warren Beatty, my brother's in LA. My daughter's in
Connecticut. My closest family is Terry the terrier. She's 11, and I take her
everywhere. I buy her a seat on the plane. On my ranch I do four seminars a year
on past life, which people are interested in. It takes five days to get the
right relaxation and communication. I'll do that on my birthday."

Does she miss the old days?

"Hell, yes." Then: "Pancakes and eggs." Then: "I'm having breakfast." Then: "I'm
getting used to longevity. Age means you're expected to be funny and eccentric,
so it's easier. And I've kept all my old wardrobe and costumes in storage. The
difficulty is I now need everything three sizes larger, so I'm planning to hold
an auction.

"I may get an apartment here. I miss New York. I live in an isolated paradise.
It's extreme living. But I'd like to spend more time here. Meanwhile I stay with
friends."

Is she rich?

"Yes."

SPEAKING of what's been around awhile, there's Lincoln. We got us the Lincoln
penny, Lincoln Memorial, Lincoln Tunnel, Lincoln Highway, Lincoln town car,
Lincoln, Neb., my friend's dachshund Lincoln, Brooklyn's Lincoln Tech and
Lincoln High school, etc.

Comes now "The Conspirator," Robert Redford's star-filled movie.

Kevin Kline: "Lincoln doesn't say a word in this true story behind the
assassination. It's about the conspiracy to kill also the vice president and my
secretary of war character. Southern sympathizer Mary Surratt, whose son was
involved, owned a boarding house. Her friend was John Wilkes Booth.
Interestingly, in line with today's terrorist trials, my character demands a
military tribunal, not a civil trial. It's 'Get it over with. Get these people
hanged.' It pictures the end of the Civil War's reactions, climate, tension,
panic and the South rising again."

This student of American history in high school said more, but then I was into
his wife Phoebe Cates' hanging citrine and gold earrings from her shop Blue
Tree. I mean, Abe's not around anymore. The earrings are.

James McAvoy: "My guy's a loyalist Union soldier. A defense lawyer, but he's
disgusted." So, considering McAvoy's lilting brogue, how's he play a Yank?

"With an American accent. I learned watching TV and from American friends. Ten
weeks location in the South helped. Occasionally I slip, and out comes my
Scottish pronunciation. Redford made me stay concentrated in my American accent,
talking all the time, on and off camera, so I got used to it and wouldn't make
mistakes. It was exciting because I studied Lincoln in school. Even in Scotland,
we knew about him.

"And we had our premiere at the Ford Theatre. It was strange looking straight up
to that balcony where he was shot." Alongside me a handsome lady whose daughter
Robin Wright's in the movie said: "I'm Linda Wright. My husband and I live in
Shreveport, La. We came up for this and were with her in Savannah and Charleston
during filming. My Robin's the kind who did dishes. Never cared about having her
picture taken. Such a good girl growing up."

OUR mayor gave a book party at his home for the partially employed Katie Couric
. . . Spielberg's movie about Lincoln Center's "War Horse" play, opening this
week, comes out come summer . . . Two Broadway stars are co-starring together
these last nine months. Bobby Cannavale from "The Motherf**ker With the Hat" and
Sutton Foster from "Anything Goes" are rooming with one another but, for some
reason, want this kept quiet . . . Kelly Osbourne has bunions. Also flat feet.
She won't get them surgically corrected.

THIS guy's at Chinese takeout awaiting his order. His friend calls with, "Where
are you?" He said: "It's 6 p.m., I live alone, I'm a New Yorker and I'm Jewish.
Where do you think I am?"

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

THE RISE - AND THE FALL - OF THE WORLD'S WICKED & VILE SYMBOL OF TERROR

BYLINE: ANDY SOLTIS and DAREH GREGORIAN

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1156 words


He was pure evil.

Osama bin Laden died as the world's most-wanted man, a remorseless mass murderer
who'd made it his mission in life to bring death and destruction to the United
States.

"We declared jihad against the US government because the US government is
unjust, criminal and tyrannical," bin Laden said after the 9/11 attacks, urging
Muslims to rise up and join a global battle between "the camp of the faithful
and the camp of the infidels"

He had long seen slaughter as a perfectly appropriate tool - one he wielded with
abandon over the past 20 years in Somalia, Kenya, Afghanistan and Iraq.

"There are two types of terror, good and bad," he rationalized of his bloodlust.
"What we are practicing is good terror."

His "good terror" led to the deaths of almost 3,000 people in New York,
Pennsylvania and Washington, DC, on Sept. 11, 2001, an atrocity he gloated about
in videotaped messages.

"Here is America struck by God Almighty in one of its vital organs," he said.

Despite failing health, an international dragnet and a $25 million bounty on his
head, bin Laden eluded capture for a decade.

Photos of him, in Arab headdress or in camouflage fatigues with a Kalashnikov
rifle at his side, circulated around the world.

But pressure from the US manhunt left him a marginalized figurehead who would
release occasional taped diatribes on a range of topics, from the war in Iraq to
US politics, the subprime mortgage crisis and even climate change.

When he made the FBI's most-wanted list in 1998, the 6-foot-6 bin Laden was
identified with eight aliases, including "the Prince" and "the Director."

Much of his background is still shrouded in mystery. The first CIA report said
he was born in 1955, but it was later determined that he was born in 1957.

He was either the 17th - or 25 - of Saudi billionaire Mohammad Awad bin Laden's
52 - or 54 - children, and grew up in the Red Sea port of Jiddah, Saudi Arabia.

When he was 10, his father died in a helicopter accident - apparently due to an
error by his American pilot. Much of what happened in his teenage years is in
dispute.

One version says he was quiet, studious and devout, with a white Chrysler as the
only sign of his wealth. Another said he was womanizer and drinker, who
frequented casinos and bars when he visited Lebanon in the early 1970s.

At 22, he left Saudi Arabia for Afghanistan to help the mujahedeen guerrillas
fight back invading Soviet troops.

He saw himself as a guiding spirit in a holy war.

"In this jihad, the biggest benefit was the myth of the superpower was
destroyed, not only in my mind but in the minds of all Muslims," he said.

After the Soviets withdrew in 1989, bin Laden returned to his day job in his
father's construction firm - but continued with his calling.

He had been creating a network of radical allies since 1979, but beginning with
his return to Jiddah, he actively recruited Afghan war vets looking for the next
jihad.

Some eventually went on to Chechnya, Kosovo and the Philippines and became
charter members of "The Base" - or, as it was known in Arabic, al Qaeda.

He was outraged when Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990 - and more so when Saudi
officials, fearing they were next, invited American troops to protect them under
Operation Desert Shield.

Saudi authorities had rejected bin Laden's offer to lead a Muslim army into
Kuwait, and became so alarmed by his connections to anti-government elements,
they expelled him in 1991.

He called for a jihad against the United States, despite the fact that it had
spent billions of dollars bankrolling the Afghan resistance in which he had
fought.

Bin Laden found a new home with exiled Egyptian radicals in Sudan, taking much
of his fortune with him. The Saudi government froze the rest of his assets.

Most of his huge family disowned him and he seemed to be another virtually
unknown exile - until he claimed responsibility for trying to blow up US
soldiers in Yemen in 1992.

The following year, al Qaeda registered its first major successes. In February,
six Muslim militants with links to bin Laden orchestrated the bombing of the
World Trade Center. The building did not collapse, as the plotters hoped.

Bin Laden was the prime suspect in bombings of US servicemen in Saudi Arabia in
1995 and 1996, as well as attacks on US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998
that killed 224.

In October 2000, al Qaeda suicide bombers rammed the USS Cole warship in Yemen,
killing 17 sailors.

Bin Laden made a chilling "Mein Kampf"-like introduction when he appeared in an
interview on CNN in March 1997.

He presented himself as a new Saladin, who would lead the world's 1 billion-plus
Muslims against the infidels.

The United States "wants to occupy our countries, steal our resources, impose on
us agents to rule us based not on what God has revealed," he said.

A year later, he issued a second fatwah, saying all Americans, including
civilians, should be killed.

Graduates of the Afghan camps tried to emulate him - but failed.

One of them, an Algerian named Ahmed Ressam, said his explosives training helped
him prepare a bomb that was to go off at the LA airport during millennium
observances at the end of 1999. But the plot was aborted.

Bin Laden was believed to be spending $50,000 a day on al Qaeda, and his fortune
was evaporating. Yet his greatest crime, the Sept. 11 attacks, cost less than
$20,000, according to estimates.

The World Trade Center was still burning when US officials identified bin Laden
as the most likely suspect.

"There is only one group that has ever indicated that it has this kind of
ability, and that's Osama bin Laden's," former NATO commander Wesley Clark said
hours after the attacks.

Within weeks, US forces and their Afghan allies had routed bin Laden's Taliban
protectors and were closing in on him.

On Nov. 15, 2001, he got into his Corolla before it merged into a huge convoy of
cars, trucks and armored vehicles that left Jalalabad for the caves of Tora
Bora, 30 miles away.

One of the last times he was seen was Nov. 26, when he appeared there to rally
the troops. "Hold your positions firm and be ready for martyrdom," he said, then
walked off into the foothill forests - and vanished.

Although he suffered kidney disease, an enlarged heart and other ailments, bin
Laden is believed to have fled by foot into Pakistan, with a few loyalists.

Since then, there had only been rumors about him - that he had died of disease,
had been killed by an earthquake or was trapped in a Pakistani hideout - and
occasional, defiant videos.

As it turned out, he'd been hiding in a mansion north of Islamabad for an
undetermined amount of time before being gunned down by US forces yesterday.

One of his estimated 23 children was with him and slain as well. He had four
wives.

"His demise should be welcomed by all who believe in peace and human dignity,"
President Obama said.          With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACE OFEVIL:OsamaBin Laden, whofunded mass mur-der with his family's
fortune, smirks while in hiding after his most heinous act - 9/11. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

BORDER BLUSTER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 301 words


Does President Obama want to fix America's broken immigration system - or just
score political points?

Judging from his trip to Texas Tuesday, it's hard to see any serious interest
from him in reform.

And that's a shame. Because, as he himself notes, the status quo is a disaster.

Fixing immigration "is not just the right thing to do," Obama said. "It's smart
for our economy."

He's right.

Immigrants, as New Yorkers well know, built this nation and made it great.

But lax border control and a permanent shadow population present all kinds of
social and national-security woes.

So, yes, urgent action is needed.

Alas, Obama seems less concerned about that than about . . . Republicans.

"We have gone above and beyond" the border-control measures sought by the GOP,
he huffed. But some Republicans are "trying to move the goal posts."

They'll soon want a moat and maybe alligators in the moat, he chided. "They'll
never be satisfied."

Don't blame me, in other words - gridlock is the other political party's fault.

Of course, that's patently false. More important: Does he truly think
finger-pointing is the best path to consensus in this already highly charged
debate?

Let's face it: As even The New York Times admitted, "politics were central" to
Obama's Texas trip.

He has no plans to introduce legislation or change federal policies. That would
unduly antagonize some of Big Labor - a core Democratic constituency.

Yet he frets that many Hispanic Americans, an increasingly powerful political
bloc, will hold him responsible in 2012 for not keeping his vows of reform.

Sorry: Hispanics, like everyone else, know that passing the buck and smearing
Republicans won't cure America's immigration ills; it'll just poison the
political climate further.

America already has too much of that.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday

YANDEX JUMPS 55% IN DEBUT

BYLINE: Garett Sloane

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 304 words


Russia minted its first Internet billionaire yesterday.

Yandex, the online search leader of Russia, hit the public markets yesterday,
and its shares jumped 55 percent, showing continued investor interest in the
tech sector.

Yandex was the first Russian Internet company to go public in the US, listing on
the Nasdaq, where its shares went public at $25 and then rose through the day to
a lofty close at $38.84 yesterday.

The company raised $1.3 billion in the largest tech IPO haul since Google raised
$1.67 billion in August 2004. The stock bump left CEO Arkady Volozh with a stake
worth more than $1.5 billion.

Analysts were expecting a big opening push for Yandex after last week's
impressive launch of LinkedIn, whose shares rose 109 percent on its first day.

The difference in performance showed that investors, while hot for Internet
companies, were still being discerning, said Stephanie Chang, an analyst with
IPO research firm Renaissance Capital.

"It shows investors are being selective despite a lot of talk about the Internet
bubble," she said.

LinkedIn edged out Yandex in the excitement factor, because it was the first US
social network to go public, ahead of other hotly anticipated tech companies
such as Facebook and Groupon.

Investors were also concerned with the political climate in Russia where any
change in Internet rules could impact Yandex, she said.

Ryan Jacob, who runs Jacob Internet Fund, a veteran of trading in Chinese tech
stocks, said that political fears were overblown, and that Yandex could navigate
its mother country.

A big reason for the differences in LinkedIn and Yandex's opening could be
accounted for in the number of shares offered. Yandex floated 52 million while
LinkedIn only sold 8 million.

"The share price has been a function of supply and demand," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VOLOZH.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

MIKE GETS SCHOOLED IN FAILURE

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1175 words


AFTER reading my reports from New York teachers who say they are forced to raise
grades and pass failing students, a friend has questions. He writes: "If nine
years of mayoral control, all sorts of experimentation and extra billions spent
on incentives and other approaches leave the school system no better off, isn't
it right to assume that the students - for whatever mix of reasons - are
incapable of performing to reasonable standards in a mass education setting? And
if that's the case, what are the implications?"

That is the heart of the matter. Notwithstanding union obstruction, state laws
or other obstacles, the Bloomberg years have been a fair test of what can be
achieved in a school system flush with cash, political control and
determination.

The first mayor to achieve control after the Board of Education was abolished,
Bloomberg set out to become "the education mayor." He pledged it would define
his mayoralty, much as crime reduction defined Rudy Giuliani's.

It hasn't worked out that way. The mayor's clumsy handling of the replacement of
Joel Klein merely crystallized growing public disenchantment, captured in a
recent Quinnipiac poll. By a whopping 64-25 percent, voters don't like Bloomy's
management of the schools. Among parents, only 20 percent approve, while 78
percent disapprove.

Overall, by 57 to 23 percent, New Yorkers say his takeover of the schools has
been a failure.

Public opinion can be fickle, but it's hard to argue with such a lopsided
finding, especially when it is driven by parents. There is wide disappointment
and a sense of fatigue with endless churning, especially as the budget squeeze
forces educrats to do with slightly less money.

But the elephant in the room is student achievement. While there have been some
gains, as a whole, it remains mediocre. Only about half of students in grades 3
through 8 read or do math at grade level.

That's simply not good enough, and the numbers will drop further if state
officials raise standards again, as they promised.

Yet broad statistics from 1,700 schools conceal as much as they reveal. There
are pockets of true excellence, with schools like Stuyvesant and Bronx Science
among the best in the nation. With Asians making up about 70 percent of their
students, these schools are glorious proof the American dream lives.

Many neighborhood schools are fine, if not spectacular. Most teachers and
principals are dedicated professionals, and parents of middle-class means and
values provide the key link between home and classroom.

Then there's the bottom, a tier that one official candidly said makes up as many
as a third of all schools. The children are overwhelmingly black and Hispanic,
most are from homes headed by single mothers, and the disorder in their lives
often overwhelms the benefits of education.

These children are failing in fact, if not in official reports.

Indeed, startling accusations from high-school teachers that principals demand
they pass as many as 80 percent of all students, regardless of grades and
attendance, get to the heart of concealed failure. It is social promotion
without end, a system that routinely passes along 95 percent of students,
regardless of merit. It is a sham with lifelong consequences. These kids are
unprepared to succeed in the world because they never had to confront their
failure.

My friend argues for a return to vocational and commercial education for those
with no academic interest or ability. "Teach them how to read, add and subtract
and write a letter in English," he says. "They'll learn because the rest of the
time they'll be learning something useful and interesting."

"But that's getting ahead of the story," he adds. The first step is for city
leaders "to recognize that they can't do what they're trying to do now. The
students can't or won't learn what they're being taught and the parents don't
help."

I agree. The mayor and Chancellor Dennis Walcott need to take a timeout, one
where they face the ugly facts about student achievement.

But I doubt they will. My fear is they are so invested in their claims of
success that they cannot admit the truth of failure.

BIDEN, THE O-VERSTATER

The book on "ShX%$ Joe Biden Says" is mostly full of harmless nonsense and
gibberish. But in using the death of Osama bin Laden as a fund-raising tool last
week, the veep crossed the line of good sense. And he did it with a level of
exaggeration that was wild even by his standards.

Speaking to paying Democrats in New Hampshire, Biden called President Obama's
decision to approve the Navy SEAL raid into Pakistan "the boldest undertaking
any president has taken in any event in modern history."

That's a true statement - if you are completely ignorant of modern history.
Start with FDR's boldness in ordering the invasion of Normandy. Or Harry
Truman's courage in dropping the A-bomb on Japan. Or JFK's steely confrontation
with the Soviets in the Cuban missile crisis.

Or Richard Nixon going to China or Ronald Reagan confronting communism and
winning the Cold War.

The pattern is the point: Every president is called upon to make difficult
decisions where the risks are high and there is no guarantee of success. Lives
and legacies hang in the balance. That's the job.

Even hapless Jimmy Carter showed boldness in trying to rescue the Iranian
hostages. That he failed doesn't make his decision any less bold.

But Biden wasn't just making his point in a vacuum. He was laying out the
argument for Obama's re-election, and claimed the bin Laden mission proved
voters "have a crystal-clear picture of how strong and decisive this president
is . . . The American people will no longer confuse being contemplative with
being a coward."

Oh, put a sock in it. Bin Laden was killed in a raid Obama approved, and for
that America is deeply grateful.

End of story.

WEINER IS SURE ACTING GUILTY

Partisanship is the last refuge of a scoundrel, and Rep. Anthony Weiner is
guilty. The New York Democrat is suggesting that political enemies are behind
the strange case of a bulging crotch photo sent from his Twitter account to a
Seattle woman.

Weiner first said he was hacked, then called it a "prank" and a "distraction"
before trotting out political bogeymen.

"Look, you've got the Republicans who are playing games with the debt limit,
you've got a Supreme Court justice who's refusing to recuse himself despite
conflicts of interest, you have a health-care act that is under siege," he said
in a TV interview.

Now he's stopped talking - that's news right there - and hired a lawyer, though
he hasn't filed a police report.

Hmmm. Because I'm an optimist, I'm prepared to believe the worst.

BRAZIL NUTS

Mayor Moneybags, having solved all of New York's problems, is off in Rio,
lecturing on climate change. I assume he traveled on his carbon-spewing private
jet, the standard ride for a Gulfstream Liberal.

NEW JACK(POT) CITY

A plan for casinos in Chicago includes putting slot machines at the airports.
This seems redundant. Just going to Chicago is gambling enough.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayor Mike Bloomberg in a classroom. [Paul Martinka]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 1, 2011 Friday

LONG LOCKOUT LOOMS; OWNERS, UNION FAR APART ON NEW CBA FOR NBA

BYLINE: MARC BERMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 732 words


The Great Lockout of 2011 began at midnight last night with no indication it
will end this summer and with a meeting not expected to take place for two
weeks.

The Players Association and team owners met for three hours in Manhattan
yesterday -  their eighth gathering this month -  but didn't come close on
agreeing on a new collective bargaining agreement. Knicks owner James Dolan was
one of the small group of owners who attended the meeting.

A somber commissioner David Stern ordered a lockout for midnight, postponing
July 1 free agency indefinitely and endangering the 2011-12 season.

Union executive director Billy Hunter Jr. said he requested more financial
documentation from the NBA to examine and the sides agreed to reconvene in about
two weeks.

That was the only sign this lockout could end sooner than the 1998 debacle that
resulted in a 50-game season and didn't end until Jan. 6. It took a month before
the sides reconvened when the 1998 lockout began July 1.

A glum-looking Stern said the two sides are no closer today than they were on
July 1, 1998.

"I don't think we're closer and that worries me we're not closer," he said. "We
have a huge philosophical divide. We're pretty far apart. It's great we
understand it's nothing personal. But the lack of lack animosity doesn't get us
any closer in respect to the underlying philosophical divide."

The divide is large. The owners want to get rid of the current soft cap set at
around $58 million and implement a "flex" salary cap proposal, but the players
consider it a hard cap, which they oppose. The owners also want to reduce the
players' guarantee of 57 percent of basketball revenue and turned down the
union's offer to drop it to 54.3 percent.

Hunter, said perhaps the start of a lockout will change the urgency to reach a
new agreement.

"I've been expecting this lockout for 2-3 years," Hunter said. "So, it's here.
I'm glad it's happened, now we can really begin to negotiate."

Teams are prohibited from contacting their players or agents, and the players
are locked out of their workplace.

"Arenas, practice facilities will be closed to our players," Stern said. "There
will be collateral damage as we go through the summer. I'm not scared. I'm more
resigned to the potential damage it causes to the league.

"We're looking forward to scheduling additional meetings; and find a more
imaginative way to close the gap," Stern added. "A lockout has very large impact
on a lot of people. There's a whole raft of people who make a living from our
industry. We had no choice but to end the negotiation."

The players union gave one last proposal yesterday that Stern derided. Stern
said in the climate of his owners losing money, the players asked for the
average salary per player to go from $5 million per player to 6.5 million in the
fifth year and $7 million in the sixth year.

Hunter said the union and owners have to attack the next negotiation in a
different light, focusing less on salaries than a broader scope. Hunter said it
won't follow the NFL's lead in decertifying the union in order to sue the NBA on
anti-trust laws.

"I just don't think it's necessary," Hunter said. "There's a lot of issues we
have not discussed."

Hunter said the meeting was "very cordial. . . . it was like we were singing
kumbaya at the end." He added that the "economic issues are still the elephant
in the room.

"We were all shaking hands," Hunter said. "See you in a couple of weeks and have
a good July 4th weekend."

STICKING POINTS

Here are some of the major issues that are causing labor unrest in the NBA:

What the owners want: A "flex" cap set at $62 million over a 10-year deal.

What the players want: The players say a "flex" cap is a hard cap and want a
soft cap. The previous soft cap was set at around $58 million.

What the owners want: At least a 50-50 split in revenue sharing.

What the players want: A five-year deal with a split similar to the 57-43 one
that they have now. The union made one offer to cut it to 54.3 percent, which
the owners turned down.

What the owners want: No guaranteed contracts.

What the players want: Guaranteed contracts like the one they had under the
previous CBA. Under that deal, players have been able to re-sign with their own
teams for six seasons when they're free, or to sign with another team for five
seasons when they hit the open market.   Sources: Foxsports.com; AP

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO CONSENSUS: NBA commissioner David Stern said there is a huge
"philosophical divide" between the owners and the Players Association. (Reuters)
(Metro) NO CONSENSUS: NBA commissioner David Stern said there is a huge
"philosophical divide" between the owners and the Players Association. (Getty
Images) (s,l) NO CONSENSUS: NBA commissioner David Stern said there is a huge
"philosophical divide" between the owners and the Players Association. (Reuters)
(Metro)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 10, 2011 Sunday

HARRY, IT'S BEEN WANDERFUL! POTTER SERIES CAST A WORLDWIDE SPELL THAT RIVALED
GREATEST FANTASY EPICS

BYLINE: SARA STEWART

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1828 words


THE early reports are in: This is Daniel Radcliffe's finest hour. "You feel
everything he's gone through in all these 10 years - in the story, seven years -
you see it on his face, the burden Harry's had to bear," says screenwriter Steve
Kloves. "It's pretty powerful.

"I think it's Dan's best picture."

The release of "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" is one milestone
among many in the boywizard saga: The hotly anticipated release of each book,
celebrated like a global holiday. The arrival of the first movie, with attendant
questions over how well the actors would fit the characters (hard as it is, now,
to separate one from the other). The cliffhanger ending of "Half-Blood Prince,"
with its shocking murder. The opening of the penultimate film, adapted from the
first half of the last gargantuan book.

And now, this is really it: "Deathly Hallows: Part 2" wraps it all up with a
big, bloody battle, Harry's final showdown with Voldemort. This Friday is
destined to be a major - and, quite likely, tearful - event, a farewell heard
'round the world for one of the most widely known and loved series of our age.

"It was so meticulously laid out by Jo Rowling that you can't help but marvel at
her imagination," says director Chris Columbus, who helmed the first two films,
"and her ability to have transformed the series into this Dickensian saga."

Dickensian? As in, one of the greatest bodies of work in the English language?
As in, a century from now Harry Potter will be the subject of academic
dissertations and BBC dramas, on top of ongoing collegiate Quidditch leagues and
wizard-rock tribute bands?

Kloves, who adapted all seven of the books for the big screen, attended the
London premiere last Thursday, and says the massive fan turnout at the event -
where Emma Watson wept openly and thanked Kloves for writing her role of
Hermione so well - was a refl ection of the colossal impact the books have had
in England, both the home of the author and the setting of the stories.

"The atmosphere in London is brilliant," he says. "You get up there onstage, and
you're like, this is because of one woman and a book she published. And Jo
really is the biggest star there! That's kind of remarkable."

Sure, you may be saying, but - all this drama is over a bunch of children's
books?

Hardly. J. K. Rowling's series may have started out that way, but in light of
its global domination, both in the publishing world and at the box offi ce, it
can't be written off as mere kiddie fare. Stories that are this universally
known, across nearly all demographics, reside in another genre altogether: the
classics.

"'Harry Potter' ranks alongside 'Star Wars,' 'Lord of the Rings,' and 'The
Wizard of Oz' amongst some of the greatest fairy tales of the 21st century,"
says Henry Jenkins, professor of Communication, Journalism and Cinematic Arts at
the University of Southern California. "It seems likely to be a series which
will be read by future generations, much as these other works have withstood the
test of time."

Kloves says Rowling's series arrived at exactly the right point in time. "I
think we're living in an age of irony," he says. "What Jo did with the books is
explore concepts like honor and courage and friendship and loyalty in very
earnest ways, but without being saccharine. And I think there was this appetite
for that."

Already, the books are the subject of university courses, exploring everything
from faith (Yale's "Christian Theology and Harry Potter") to physics ("The
Science of Harry Potter" at Maryland's Frostburg State University) to medieval
studies (Georgetown's "Knights of Old and Harry Potter").

Karin Westman, a professor at Kansas State University who teaches a class on
Rowling's literary infl uences, says the author never set out to write childish
literature.

"Her favorite author of all time is Jane Austen. She does mention some
children's authors, like E. Nesbit and C.S. Lewis, but she draws as much from
adult literature as children's," says Westman.

Rowling's books contain universal themes and couch them in a reality we feel
connected to, she adds.

"She's interested in the big questions, about what's good and evil, and how do
we live in a world that has both - that's where Rowling intersects with earlier
literature. Where you feel most connected is [not fantasy elements] but the
moments of reality, like Harry's emotional experience, or the political
corruption at the Ministry of Magic."

Author Lev Grossman - whose best selling 2010 fantasy novel "The Magicians" has
been referred to by "Game of Thrones" author George R.R. Martin as being "to
Harry Potter as a shot of Irish whiskey is to a glass of weak tea" - says
Rowling's place in the big leagues is incontrovertible.

"She's set herself up as a link in the chain that connects writers like J.R.R.
Tolkien and C.S. Lewis to writers like [science fiction author] Ursula Le Guin.
I feel like her place is secure in that tradition," says Grossman.

The story of Harry's journey, from his humble beginnings with the Dursley family
to being the savior of the world, is an age-old classic, Grossman says - one
identifi able in other indelible modern-day tales, like "Star Wars" and "Lord of
the Rings."

"If you sit down and start tracking parallels between 'Harry Potter' and 'Star
Wars,'" he says, "you'll never stop. They're all versions of the [scholar]
Joseph Campbell monomyth story: A young person is summoned from a realm they
never knew existed, and endowed with powers connected to their parents, who they
never knew they had, and fulfills a great destiny."

Added to that, says Danielle Tumminio, author of "God and Harry Potter at Yale:
Teaching Faith and Fantasy Fiction in an Ivy League Classroom," is that "the
struggles the characters have, like how to lead a meaningful life, and how to
make sense of the loss of a parent - they're very real for people. Rowling does
a masterful job of crafting characters that have lively psychological inner
lives."

When translating Rowling's sweeping themes to film, Kloves hewed closely to her
approach. "What we tried to do in the movies is not to be corny, but to take it
seriously - that being loyal, and standing up for things you believe in,
actually matter in the world," he says.

Columbus, as the series' first director, tried to ignore the growing phenomenon.
"I had to basically put on blinders and avoid what people were saying about who
we were casting and what the look of Hogwarts would be," he says. "Had I thought
about the importance of those decisions, I probably would never have left my
apartment."

It was Columbus who made the fateful decision to cast Radcliffe, Watson and
Rupert Grint, who grew up as Harry, Hermione and Ron. He also started the ball
rolling on the collection of A-list British talent featured in the eight films:
Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick
Davis, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard Griffiths, the
late Richard Harris, John Hurt, Jason Isaacs, Bill Nighy, Gary Oldman, Miranda
Richardson, Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Timothy Spall, Imelda
Staunton, David Thewlis and Emma Thompson, to name a few.

"It was almost like forming a band," says Columbus. "Once you had certain
people, other people wanted to hop on board."

That said, "at the beginning, I was practically begging some of these people.
Richard Harris was initially slightly ambivalent," Columbus says. "Alan Rickman
felt he didn't want to be typecast. I think he was one of the great cinematic
villains of all time in 'Die Hard.' That's why I wanted to cast him!"

Coltrane, who plays Hogwarts groundskeeper Hagrid, told Entertainment Weekly
none of the actors took the job lightly: "Nobody thought, 'Oh, it's just a kids'
film.' Everyone treated it as seriously as Ibsen."

On set, it seems there was not a dry eye in the house amongst the cast when the
last film wrapped.

"We knew the day was coming for so long, but it was surprisingly moving for all
of us," says producer David Barron. "Everybody put so much of themselves into
these movies, and on this one we all shared the added goal of making it a
fitting finale to the series."

But the effects of Harry Potter have now spread far beyond the books and movies.
After Rowling proved readers young and old would gladly shell out for books with
thousand-plus page counts, the entire young-adult market changed.

"Rowling transformed the publishing landscape," says Kansas State's Westman.
"'Harry Potter' didn't start with large marketing, it started in a grassroots
way, with kids and parents buying the books. The midnight release parties only
started with book four. Then publishers adopted those for other series. The size
of the books, and the interest and the fan energy around the books like
'Twilight,' was a consequence of the earlier success of 'Harry Potter.'"

Fan communities existed long before Rowling's series, but here they took off in
an unprecedented way. Sites like MuggleNet and The Leaky Cauldron led the way
for the creation of huge Potter communities, devoted to not only discussing the
films and books, and writing their own fanfi ction extrapolations of the plot
(some more G-rated than others), but actually expanding into cultural movements.

"Social activism has resulted," says Westman, "particularly the creation of the
Harry Potter Alliance. Andrew Slack and Paul DeGeorge [lead singer of the rock
band Harry and the Potters] take the themes of Rowling's series - concerns about
prejudice and the need to make the world a better place -and move them into the
real world."

31-year-old Slack, a Brandeis graduate and former standup comedian, co-heads the
organization, which reaches over a million people in an outreach program
targeting issues like poverty, genocide, climate change, global literacy
(they've donated over 88,000 books worldwide) and emergency aid. Recently, the
organization funded five cargo planes to Haiti, each named after a Potter
character. "We see ourselves as the Dumbledore's Army for our world," Slack
says, referring to the novels' underground resistance movement of Hogwarts
students.

"Why do we have to just talk about Harry?" says Slack, who views the Potter
Alliance as the starting point for a broader activist movement inspired by
Rowling's books. "Why can't we be like Harry?"

400 number of students who can be seated in the Great Hall at Hogwarts

$40,000  amount for which a fifirst trade-edition of "Harry Potter and the
Philosopher's Stone" sold at a Christie's auction in October 2010.

400 number of students who can be seated in the Great Hall at Hogwarts

450M copies of Harry Potter books sold worldwide

$6,369,976,303 total worldwide gross of all seven Harry Potter movies to date

13-15 average Hogwarts wand length, in inches

$200 dues per year for college teams on the International Quidditch Association

58% of British schools which now have Hogwartsesque "houses"

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Harry Potter and cast of new movie.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

CUOMO'S UNFINISHED JOBS AGENDA

BYLINE: Cox

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 707 words


ON Tuesday, Gov. Cuomo announced a key part of his plan for his second six
months in office: a $10 million ad campaign aimed at "business leaders across
the world."

Sorry: That's not delivering on the governor's extensive unfinished agenda. With
Cuomo's end-of-session focus on marriage, major issues crucial to New York's
fiscal and economic recovery wound up receiving at best cursory treatment.

As Cuomo himself noted in demurring last week to vice-presidential speculation,
"We're literally hemorrhaging people from our borders right now."

Once you factor in our higher cost of living, New York families are among
America's poorest. As the state with the heaviest tax burden and the least
economic freedom, New York ranks at the top in the export of jobs and productive
citizens.

Yes, the governor won widespread praise for his first budget and legislative
successes. But in his campaign, he pledged a fiscally responsible, job-creating
government - and key changes are yet to come.

Local government-mandate relief, reform of government pensions and benefits,
job-creating tax reform and education reform are only some of the politically
difficult matters requiring Albany's attention.

Driven by state and federal mandates, which can eat up 85 percent or more of a
county budget, New York property taxes are double the national average.

Yes, the governor joined Senate Republicans in passing one of the country's
strongest property-tax caps. But relief from state mandates addresses the major
cause of high local property taxes.

The Medicaid mandate is by far the most onerous. Letting counties structure
their own Medicaid programs or capping counties' Medicaid obligations would
unite funding and program responsibilities - reducing costs and improving
services for the nation's most expensive Medicaid program.

Cuomo said last week that public-pension reform will be his top goal for next
year. Given the unions' power, meaningful reforms will be difficult to enact. To
set an example and end the connection between longevity in office and pension
benefits, a first step could be adopting defined-contribution plans (in line
with private-sector pensions) for future elected and appointed officials.

Also vital is to selectively and intelligently reduce taxes affecting businesses
and job creation - so that New York can stop being America's No. 1 exporter of
jobs and people. The days of assuming that America's most productive people will
come here, despite our tax and regulatory schemes, ended long ago.

Then there's school reform - which is not just an economic imperative, but also
a matter of social justice. New York spends top dollar on K-through-12
education, but gets mediocre results. That's especially true in our inner
cities, where access to a good education has become the civil-rights issue of
our time.

Key reforms include fostering more effective charter schools, merit pay for
teachers, more aid to parochial schools and the elimination of stultifying laws
such as "Last in first out" for teacher layoffs. Can Cuomo end Assembly
Democrats' resistance on these fronts?

Some of New York's decay is purely physical - with the decrepit Tappan Zee
Bridge as the poster child. Albany needs to promote public-private partnerships
to repair and modernize our aging infrastructure - and breathe life into the
stagnant construction industry.

New York is falling behind competitive states in the Midwest, where GOP
governors and legislatures have used their political capital to improve the
fiscal and business climate and attract jobs. These states not only erased large
budget deficits without raising taxes, but also often went the rest of the way -
reforming government-worker pensions and benefits (and even the related
labor-negotiation laws), cutting taxes for business investment and enacting
far-reaching school reforms.

Albany faces a daunting political agenda of leftover matters. As the chief
executive officer of this blue state, Cuomo must focus on New York's
government-driven economic problems and use all his vaunted political skills and
carefully preserved political capital just to keep New York competitive and stop
the hemorrhaging of jobs and citizens.

Ed Cox is New York state GOP chairman.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

RICH ARE DE-LUXE High-end retailers in fear of a winter of discontent

BYLINE: James Covert

SECTION: ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 514 words


There's a chilling wind blowing across the red-hot luxury category.

Upper-crust shoppers, which who have spent lavishly in recent quarters on
everything and anything luxury - from Louis Vuitton handbags to Burberry trench
coats - may be finally coming to the end of the budgets.

With a credit crisis in Europe and the US stock market gyrating after the
nation's debt downgrade, swanky retailers are bracing for the danger that their
well-heeled clientele could clamp down on spending this fall.

To soothe such worries, Saks Inc., parent of one of the larger luxury retailers,
Saks Fifth Avenue, yesterday took the rare step of disclosing this month's
business trends as it reported quarterly results, noting that demand in recent
weeks for pricey shoes and designer dresses has met expectations.

Nevertheless, "severe market corrections or prolonged downturns have
historically negatively affected us," Saks CEO Steve Sadove warned investors.

The comments echoed an uncertain outlook from New York luxury group Ralph
Lauren, whose president Roger Farah said last week he was "concerned about
macroeconomic uncertainty" as the holidays approach.

Wealthy shoppers lately have been building momentum, fueling an 11.6 percent
gain last month in US luxury sales excluding jewelry, according to an estimate
by MasterCard SpendingPulse. That was up from luxury gains of 4.7 percent and
8.2 percent in May and June, respectively, handily outpacing the rest of the
retail sector.

As of this week, well-heeled consumers still haven't been rattled by the stock
market, and the luxury industry's expectation for an 8- to 10-percent holiday
increase appears to be on track, adds Sherif Mityas, a partner in the retail
practice at A.T. Kearney.

"They may be taking pause, but I'm not sure people in the affluent segment have
gotten their minds around the idea that we're headed for a double-dip
recession," Mityas said.

He noted, however, that "if we truly experience a double-dip recession, then the
luxury sector will be the first to feel the pain - when retail goes down luxury
goes down even worse."

Saks thrilled shoppers - and angered many fashion brands - when it slashed its
prices as much as 70 percent after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008.

"The wound is still fresh from 2008," said Andrew Sacks of AgencySacks, a
research firm focused on luxury consumers. "It's an easy thing for people to
remember, and it's not that long since we started to reverse course - I can't
imagine people not being concerned."

Saks' jittery outlook helped drive its shares down 4.6 percent yesterday, much
steeper than the 0.7 percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial average.

In addition, Tiffany fell 3.7 percent, Coach dropped 4.5 percent and Ralph
Lauren Corp. was down 2.2 percent.

----

Slipping

Saks' disappointing forecast yesterday sent luxe stocks stumbling like a model
from super-high heels - signalling the sector's bull run may be losing steam.

YESTERDAY'S FALL

Saks Fifth Ave: -4.6%

Coach bag: -4.5%

Polo RL: -2.2%

Tiffany flower ring: -3.7%

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Model.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            September 2, 2011 Friday

EQUAL TIME

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 1067 words


LOCAL CLASH IS TV TRASH

GOT that out of the way early. Monday's Giants-Jets telecast on Ch. 4 - an
on-thecheap production farmed out by the Giants - will be the worst NFL telecast
of the season, because they don't come any worse.

From bad/no audio, missed plays, see-nothing replays, goofy graphics and the
mindless focus on Tweets from twits, Ch. 11's "Yule Log" would have made for a
better watch.

And I threw a dart in the wrong direction the other day, blaming NBC for the
"Hewlett Packard Hit of the Game" at a time when tackle football is mercifully
trying to replace hits with tackling. That, too, was the work of the Giants'
preseason TV team.

*** Even the more astute football broadcasters misstate or misunderstand the
varying nature of the replay rule. Monday, the Jets, up 14-3, had the ball, 8:10
left in the fourth, when Giants coach Tom Coughlin challenged a fumble and
recovery that gave the Jets a first down. He lost the challenge.

"Coughlin, who is very good on challenges," Bob Papa said on Ch. 4, "is 0-for-2
tonight."

But this was one of those late-game, nothing-to-lose, crap-shoot challenges. The
replay rule, after all, can turn good calls into bad ones. And many replay
challenges lack conviction.

Yet, because the NFL and its obedient media have determined that there is no
stat unworthy of significance, coaches' records on replay challenges are spoken
as telltale, evidence of a coach's smarts. It's all too silly. And it's not
going to change.

*** Just in case John Sterling, Suzyn Waldman and Michael Kay were confused,
those things seen just behind the backstop in Fenway the last few nights are
called people.

*** Carl Banks' "Nissan Keys to the [Giants-Jets] Game" included "CBs - don't
give up big plays." I think he was talking about the Giants' corners, but what
difference does it make?

*** Joe West, young man: Imagine, DVD-ing Yankees-Red Sox games now means
programming a four-hour window, 4 1/2 to be safe.

BOOMER & CARTON SHOW MSG'S 'UGLY' SIDE

SOME folks know better, right from the start. Others need to learn the hard way.
Still others, given a painful opportunity to learn the hard way, still don't get
it.

The Boomer Esiason and Craig Carton show, simulcast on WFAN and MSG Network from
a studio specifically built for their MSG presence, lately has pitched a "Babes
and Baseball" promotion. Sixty-six (for 660 WFAN) women will accompany Esiason
and Carton to a Mets' game.

To be eligible, as Carton and Esiason have made clear, the applicants should be
"hot," the "hotter" the better. No "ugly chicks." "Ugly chicks" need not apply.

No "ugly chicks." Got it?

It's typical of the kind of promotions and content presented by this WFAN/MSG
"sports-talk" program and on the show's website.

Now we take you back, all the way to 2007, when Madison Square Garden, led by a
defiant James Dolan and primary defendant Isiah Thomas, lost a sexual harassment
suit filed by ex-MSG exec Anucha Browne Sanders. A jury awarded her $11.6
million.

Remember? It was a big story, very big.

Browne Sanders' legal team successfully argued that a climate of sexual
discrimination, objectification and harassment existed within MSG.

MSG, naturally, denied it; MSG neither allows nor condones such conduct. No,
sir.

And now Dolan's MSG Network is the eager partner in a show that regularly and
proudly objectifies women - does so for profit and promotion. But not every
woman is targeted in this "Babes and Baseball" sell. Remember, "ugly chicks" are
ineligible.

*** Tough to call Cablevision to complain about cable and Internet outages when
your Cablevision phone is down, too.

*** As a salute to Michael Jackson on his birthday, guess what clip ESPN chose
to show to music from his "Thriller" album? Video from the Little League World
Series, of 12-yearold boys playing ball.

*** Keith Hernandez, a front-and-center MLBPA team rep with the Mets, last week
crossed a picket line of striking dishwashers to dine at the Boat House in
Central Park.

STOP & STARE - NOT EVERY HR POSE GETS SAME CRITIQUE

THE audience insult factor within Yankees TV and radio broadcasts remains tough
to endure.

Last Friday on YES, Ken Singleton, during a replay, took a shot at the Orioles'
Robert Andino for jogging through what Andino thought would be a home run,
finishing with a double instead of what Singleton said should have been a
triple. As noted in this space on Sunday morning, a good on Singleton.

That night, just two days later, Yankee Nick Swisher walked out of the batter's
box while watching a home run. During that replay, Singleton performed a 180:
"Swisher watching ... And why shouldn't he? That's No. 20 on the season!"

Why shouldn't he? He explained why two days earlier. Besides, any reasonably
intelligent baseball fan knows that home plate-posing is a rotten habit. So why
would Singleton go to such lengths to insult us? Why not, if unwilling to
criticize a Yankee, just say nothing?

That's what kills me about Singleton. He can be so good - Tuesday he pointed out
how catcher Francisco Cervelli removed his glove and patted the dirt to cool his
hand after a CC Sabathia fastball - that we're left to wonder why he would run
hard in any other direction.

As for Michael Kay, he is extremely sensitive to criticism yet consistently
invites ridicule. From his bold but brainless declarations - "This series is
over!" after the Yankees beat Texas in Game 1 of last year's ALCS - to doing a
sudden and unexplained reverse on his crusade to speed the pace of games, to
parroting every statistic in the house - "He's five for his last 19" - no matter
how meaningless.

Kay's sense of forced, almost desperate self-promotion is so transparent that
although he has been a Yankees broadcaster since 1992, it took him nearly 20
years to come up with, "Put it on the left side," which he recently began to
chirp after Yankees wins. But why even bother?

And Kay's sense of baseball on TV is the same as his sense of hosting
sports-talk radio. He thinks he is hosting a sports-talk radio show. Every
picture's worth a thousand words.

Of course, as those who have lost power due to Irene have been reminded, there
are no options to Yankees TV. Yankees radio with John Sterling at the wheel
should have b e e n c o v e r e d by the Geneva Convention.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIDICULE RIDDLE: Nick Swisher took some extra time to gaze at his home
run Sunday, looking a lot like he did after a July 30 homer (left), but he
wasn't ridiculed by Ken Singleton the way Baltimore's Robert Andino was just two
days earlier. (Jason Szenes)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday

BLAIR GAV PH.D. AID TO KHADAFY KID

BYLINE: Susannah Cahalan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 106 words


Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair offered advice to Moammar Khadafy's son
Saif after receiving a copy of his 429-page Ph.D. thesis for the London School
of Economics.

Blair wrote a letter in 2007 thanking Khadafy for sending him the "interesting"
thesis, and suggested he and other leaders "fight as hard on global poverty and
climate change as we do on security and terror," The Sunday Times of London
reported.

The thesis - with the windy title "The Role of Civil Society in the
Democratization of Global Governance Institutions" - has since been reported to
have been plagiarized and ghostwritten by Libyan academics.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 16, 2011 Friday

A pink slip for Condé's longtime Brides editor

BYLINE: KEITH J. KELLY

SECTION: ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 785 words


CONDÉ Nast CEO Charles Townsend and President Bob Sauerberg called a rare joint
meeting yesterday morning of editors, publishers and other top executives.
Usually the only time they gather under one roof is for the Christmas party.

The chiefs spoke of branding and digital initiatives and said the company was
doing well in an uncertain ad climate - but did little to address the rumors
swirling inside about a good old-fashioned shakeup of the kind that made
Chairman S.I. Newhouse, Jr. infamous in the days of yore.

Women's Wear Daily also stirred the Condé pot with speculation about Brides
magazine. By late afternoon, The Post confirmed that Editor-in-Chief Millie
Martini Bratten was out after 25 years at the top, replaced by Anne Fulenwider,
the executive editor of Marie Claire.

But none of that was addressed at the all-hands meeting. The biggest upset came
when Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour, Glamour Editor-in-Chief Cindi Leive and
about a half dozen other editors bolted for the exits before the presentation
ended in a mad dash to make the Ralph Lauren show downtown as Fashion Week
grinds on.

Figures released by Media Industry Newsletter pegged Condé Nast as the publisher
with the biggest first-half among the major publishing houses.

But as is usually the case with the Condé Nasties, there were dark currents just
below the surface ready to suck some unlucky souls to their figurative doom.

One insider reported seeing an ashen-faced Bratten exiting human resources on
the 17th floor of the Condé Nast Tower, apparently after being told that her
tenure at Brides had come to an end.

Condé Nast had yet to confirm the news by press time.

A spokeswoman for Hearst's Marie Claire said only, "Anne Fulenwider will be
leaving Marie Claire magazine. We wish her well in her new job and we'll be
naming a replacement shortly."

That might not be as easy as it looks since the No. 3 editor at Marie Claire,
Abigail Pesta, had left to join Tina Brown's Newsweek Daily Beast only days
earlier.

That would seem to clear the way for deputy editor Lea Goldman to move up a few
notches.

Meanwhile, sources inside Condé are buzzing that Bratten's ouster is not the end
of it. One source said that Self Publisher Laura McEwen has been butting heads
with Editor-in-Chief Lucy Danziger and it was seen as one potential spot for a
publisher change. Self's ad pages through September were down 2.2 percent to
711.6, even though it had a stronger September issue than last year.

But McEwen might not be the only one moved. Sources say that Lucky Publisher
Michelle Myers also might be on the way out. Ad pages at Lucky were down 5.48
percent through September, and Brandon Holley, the editor-in-chief, is said to
have been looking for a publisher with a better command of the digital
marketplace.

Brides Publisher Carolyn Kremins, who had been agitating for more digital
expertise from a chief editor, is also said to be moving. "She's definitely
staying in the building," said one source, who was nevertheless unsure where
Kremins would land.

Kremins, Myers, and McEwen did not return calls seeking comment.

Finke suit

After Deadline.com Editor Nikki Finke ranted at Janice Min and The Hollywood
Reporter for a variety of perceived sins, the spat has finally ended up in a
lawsuit. Somehow the accusations of THR stealing scoops and employees don't seem
to match the pre-filing thunderbolts tossed by Finke.

Penske Media, the parent company of Deadline.com, said in its complaint that the
THR Web site was "so incompetent and careless in its theft, that it actually
copies the original source code labels exactly as they existed on TVLine and did
not even attempt to rename them."

Finke said that THR owner Prometheus Media had attempted to lure her away with
offers of a $450,000 base salary plus a $1 million Malibu home, as well as a
percentage of cable TV revenue that THR was expecting.

But the gist of the suit, aside from the details, is the claim of copyright
infringement based on the source codes. For that, Penske said it is seeking $5
million in damages.

"Today was the first we heard about any allegation regarding the code for the
"carousel" feature on our Web site, which was coded for us by a third-party
vendor," said a spokeswoman for THR. "We take the allegation seriously and have,
as of today, removed the carousel feature while we look into the matter. Unlike
with its meritless allegations of stolen stories, Deadline.com did not give us
the standard courtesy of advance notice or opportunity to investigate the coding
issue before it sued and sought publicity.

"We look forward to defending ourselves in court."

kkelly@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Arnie's squad

BYLINE:

SECTION: ; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 79 words


ARNOLD Schwarzenegger (above) hit the gym yesterday morning with one trainer and
two bodyguards at the Reebok Sports Club before delivering a message on climate
change at the UN. Perhaps fearful of an attack by the First Wives Club for his
philandering ways, the California ex-gov was surrounded by security at the
celebrity-favorite gym on Columbus Avenue. Our spy, who spotted Arnie on the
bike in slip-on Vans sneakers sans socks, described the Governator as "orange."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARNOLD Schwarzenegger.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday

Bam's UN Stump Speech

BYLINE:

SECTION: ; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 470 words


Assembled world leaders and UN delegates can be forgiven their surprise when
they found themselves sitting through a preview of President Obama's acceptance
speech at next summer's Democratic national convention.

Because that's pretty much what the president delivered in yesterday's
much-awaited address to the General Assembly - yet another political oration.

He bashed his predecessor, George W. Bush, for involving America in "two wars"
and for allowing Osama bin Laden to remain at large.

He then boasted about his accomplishments on the terror-fighting front while
hailing the "new direction" he's set that signals "the tide of war is receding."

Though in hailing the results of the Arab Spring revolts, Obama glossed over his
hesitating "leading from behind" nonstrategy.

And he made sure to mention all of the must-cite liberal issues: climate change,
poverty and gay rights.

So don't be surprised if clips from the speech show up in Obama's campaign
commercials.

Naturally, the newsworthy part of the speech had to do with the Middle East -
where Obama tried to straddle the difficult line of being equally supportive of
both Israelis and Palestinians.

Not to mention having to deal with the failure of his bold prediction to the
same body last year that "when we come back here next year, we can have an
agreement that will lead to . . . an independent, sovereign Palestine, living in
peace with Israel."

To be sure, the president was much more effusive than previously in evoking the
ongoing threat Israel faces.

"Israel is surrounded by neighbors that have waged repeated war against it," he
said, noting that "throughout the region, other children are taught to hate
[Israel]" and that "much larger nations threaten to wipe it off the map."

All this in the context of urging the Palestinians - albeit not directly - to
abandon their quest for UN recognition of an independent state absent direct
talks.

Little wonder, then, that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was quick to
praise the president's speech as a "badge of honor."

That certainly won't hurt Obama with pro-Israel voters - which, after last
week's Queens congressional election, may explain the president's rhetorical
embrace of Israel.

But he also had this to say about the conflict: "The deadlock will only be
broken when each side learns to stand in each other's shoes."

Let us translate:

l The Palestinians have to learn that the Israelis are tired of explosions in
their cities. So far, so good.

l And the Israelis have to accept that the Palestinians won't abide Jews in the
Middle East. Not live ones, anyway.

As moral-equivalence arguments go, this is not especially persuasive.

But the speech in its entirety may just get Obama past Election Day, 2012.

Or such is his hope, anyway.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 26, 2011 Monday

CAREER COACH GO TO GREG

BYLINE: Gregory Giangrande

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 403 words


My husband's boss is abusive to all the employees in the office. He demeans them
in front of others, curses, throws things and generally has temper tantrums. The
last man in my husband's job had a heart attack and died, and I'm concerned that
my husband may be next. But in today's economic climate, he's reluctant to
complain to anyone within the company. What are his options for getting this man
under control?

Abusive, inappropriate, unprofessional people shouldn't be hired anywhere in any
position - and most certainly not in a management position. There's a big
difference between tough and demanding bosses - even those who occasionally fly
off the handle - and tyrants who rule by fear and intimidation, often to mask
their lack of talent.

Too often such behavior is enabled by colleagues trying to figure out how to
please them or not "set them off." Worse is when these people are rewarded with
promotions, further reinforcing that such behavior is acceptable. The truth is
that people who behave this way routinely can't be pleased. And your husband
can't control this man - the only way to control managers like that is to fire
them.

While I certainly understand your husband's reluctance to complain for fear of
putting his job at risk, if he does nothing, then nothing will ever change. This
boss' behavior is at the very least abhorrent and at worst unlawful. And from
what you describe, this boss is an equal-opportunity abuser, so going to HR
confidentially will likely allow your husband to remain anonymous. Or if he
could gather a group that would make a collective complaint, it would give his
grievances more weight. Either way, ifthe boss is creating a hostile work
environment, then your husband is protected legally from any retaliation for
making the complaint.

The bottom line is we can't enable tyrants like these to survive and thrive.
Take action. Complain. If nothing is done to remedy the situation, then he
should ask for a transfer. If he's not transferred, then he should look for
another job. If the behavior is unlawfully creating a hostile work environment
and he gives his employers notice and a chance to remedy the situation and they
don't, he has every right to pursue legal action. Good luck.

Gregory Giangrande is chief human resources officer for Dow Jones. Send career
questions to gotogreg@nypost.com And follow Greg on Twitter: @greggiangrande.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

This windbag passes lots o' gas

BYLINE: andrea peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 134 words


Pity the 1 percent.

In addition to his palatial Park Avenue pad, junk documentarian and anti-Wall
Streeter Michael Moore owns a Michigan megamansion that puts him firmly among
the richest 1 percent of Americans. Poor Michael!

The guilt this guy must feel as he's forced to contribute far more than his
share of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere, just by heating and cooling the
place. Moore has got to commiserate with ozone bozo Al Gore, who has to heat and
cool his extreme Nashville estate (which burned 20 times the national average of
electricity and natural gas before a red-faced Gore plunked on solar panels) and
a bigger spread near Oprah's in posh Montecito, Calif.

Don't hate Moore and Gore because they're stinking rich polluters. It isn't easy
being the world's biggest hypocrites.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

This windbag passes lots o' gas

BYLINE: andrea peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 134 words


Pity the 1 percent.

In addition to his palatial Park Avenue pad, junk documentarian and anti-Wall
Streeter Michael Moore owns a Michigan megamansion that puts him firmly among
the richest 1 percent of Americans. Poor Michael!

The guilt this guy must feel as he's forced to contribute far more than his
share of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere, just by heating and cooling the
place. Moore has got to commiserate with ozone bozo Al Gore, who has to heat and
cool his extreme Nashville estate (which burned 20 times the national average of
electricity and natural gas before a red-faced Gore plunked on solar panels) and
a bigger spread near Oprah's in posh Montecito, Calif.

Don't hate Moore and Gore because they're stinking rich polluters. It isn't easy
being the world's biggest hypocrites.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 53 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

GOP paper scrap Newt rips Iowa Mitt endorse

BYLINE: S.A. Miller

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 524 words


WASHINGTON - GOP presidential front-runner Newt Gingrich yesterday turned a
prized newspaper endorsement for rival Mitt Romney into a "liberal" liability.

Gingrich said he was "delighted" that Romney was endorsed by the Des Moines
Register, Iowa's largest and most influential newspaper, just two weeks before
that state's first-in-the-country caucus.

"The Manchester (NH) Union Leader, which is a reliably conservative newspaper,
endorsed me. The Des Moines Register, which is a solidly liberal newspaper, did
not endorse me," he said on CBS's "Face the Nation."

"I think that indicates who the conservative in this race is," said Gingrich,
who is leading in polls but faces a tough fight in Iowa and the early primary
states.

The endorsement dig played to Iowa conservatives, whom Gingrich needs to help
him overcome Romney's massive war chest and campaign organization.

In its glowing endorsement of the former Massachusetts governor, the newspaper
said Romney has the "sobriety, wisdom and judgment" to lead as president of the
United States.

"Rebuilding the economy is the nation's top priority, and Romney makes the best
case among the Republicans that he could do that," said the newspaper, which has
a reputation for having a left-leaning editorial board.

Romney, meanwhile, intensified his assault on Gingrich for being "unreliable and
zany," hammering the former House speaker for opposing a GOP plan to reform
Medicare and for supporting the Democrats' climate-change bill.

He even mocked some of Gingrich's past out-of-this-world proposals.

"I wouldn't think you'd call mirrors in space to light highways at night
particularly practical or a lunar colony a practical idea," Romney said on "Fox
News Sunday."

It was Romney's first appearance on a Sunday talk show in a year, another sign
that he is pulling out all the stops in trying to overtake Gingrich.

Romney defended the escalation of attacks.

"We're different, and a campaign is about pointing out differences," he said.

He added that he wouldn't be surprised by a long, grueling primary fight that
could last until the Republican convention in August in Tampa, Fla.

"I hope we don't have that, but my guess is that that's certainly a
possibility," he said.

"So we are prepared. If we go on for months and months, we will have the
resources to carry a campaign to each of the states that will decide who gets
delegates and who becomes the nominee."

Gingrich also defended his $1.6 million consulting fee from mortgage giant
Freddie Mac, which rivals have used to label him a "Washington insider."

Most of the money didn't go into his pocket, and all he did was provide
"consulting advice" - not lobbying, he said.

"It went to a consulting firm which had offices in three cities," Gingrich said.

"The share I got was relatively small."

---

"The Manchester [NH] Union Leader, which is a reliably conservative newspaper,
endorsed me. The Des Moines Register, which is a solidly liberal newspaper, did
not endorse me." - Newt Gingrich on CBS's "Face the Nation," after Iowa's
biggest paper endorsed Mitt Romney

smiller@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Newt Gingrich. [Getty Images]-Mitt Romney.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
