
                               1 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 7, 2015 Monday

The world has cooled (to Al's eco-hysterics)

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words


I'm WORRIED about Al Gore.

The Bozo of Ozone went off his rocker (or off his meds?) while delivering a 2011
speech in Aspen, Colo.

The Gulfstream-jet-hopping, mansion-dwelling, greenhouse-gas-guzzling hypocrite
and self-appointed savior of not-really-endangered polar bears cursed and
sputtered at the thought of unnamed corporate villains who dare deny the gospel
of global warming.

"They pay pseudoscientists to pretend to be scientists to put out the message,
'This climate thing, it's nonsense. Man-made CO2 doesn't trap heat,' " Gore
began. " 'It may be volcanoes.' Bulls- -t!"

Groggy audience members started waking up.

" 'It may be sunspots.' Bulls- -t!"

" 'It's not getting warmer.' " All together now - "Bulls- -t."

One might think Gore was out of his flipping gourd.

I thought he was magnificent. Cracked - but more entertaining than a zombie
apocalypse.

But it was a terrifyingly wimpy Gore, now 67, who joined scene-making leftist
celebrities (Sean Penn) and world leaders at the UN climate summit outside
Paris, now entering its second week.

In an interview last month with The Associated Press, the former doomsayer used
terms such as, "I'm optimistic," and, "We're going to win this" - at least 16
times in 35 minutes. What gives, Albert?

Then I read the cutting words of Dana Fisher, director of the Program for
Society and the Environment at the University of Maryland. She said Gore's role
in solving planetary cooking "is limited at this point. There was a moment in
time when he was pushing a wave of attention."

She added, "I never thought of him as a central person in the climate movement."
Ouch.

It gets worse.

Gore's fame whoredom has hurt the anti-global-warming movement, one expert told
the AP. "Climate-change science is demonized because of Al Gore," said Erik
Conway, a NASA historian who co-wrote the book "Merchants of Doubt."

"If John McCain had become the titular leader of the climate-change movement
instead of Al Gore, we might have a different world."

It all makes sense to me now.

Gore wasn't cracking up four years ago. He was issuing an epic cry for help.
Once a world-class weather wizard, Gore has been melting, melting, Wicked
Witch-like, for years to the point at which he couldn't get arrested if he
marched in the streets stark naked.

How did this happen?

After losing the 2000 presidential election to George W. Bush, Gore reinvented
himself as a climate messiah. He narrated the 2006 Oscar-winning documentary "An
Inconvenient Truth," a bit of scary science fiction featuring rapidly rising
seas, rampant tropical diseases and drowning polar bears. He shared the 2007
Nobel Peace Prize with warmists of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change. But the panelists' vision of balmy winters in Alaska is far less
imminent than Gore's hysterical shtick.

As it turns out, polar bears are doing just fine. They're frolicking on an
unbroken North Pole ice cap that, despite Gore's 2008 prediction that the ice
would disappear in five years, has rebounded since 2012 to a size not seen since
the late 1970s.

Even more threatening for Gore is that he's been replaced as the world's leading
warming pooh-bah - by Pope Francis. A recent poll shows "The Francis Effect" has
resulted in the conversion of an increasing number of Americans into
climate-change foes.

One can believe, as I do, that the pope's demand that wealthy nations reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions would hurt the poor, whose lives have been greatly
improved by industrial innovations. But no one can rightly accuse the pope of
being an attention hound.

For Al Gore, it's always been about "Me! Me! Me!"

I haven't read much about Gore in Paris since the 24-hour Webcast he was hosting
at the Eiffel Tower on Nov. 13 was halted after less than five hours due to the
terror attacks. Duran Duran had already played. Elton John, Bon Jovi and
Pharrell Williams hadn't yet made their scheduled appearances.

He popped up Saturday to pose for pictures with delegates, nearly 200 of whom
agreed to a draft plan for curbing carbon emissions.

I don't know if human-caused climate change exists. Neither does Al Gore,
President Obama, UN warmists or Duran Duran.

Gore has lost his mojo and his reason for being. I worry about a man so
self-involved that he sees Earth as a sick planet revolving around the guy he
calls "Me!"

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Al Gore. [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 19, 2015 Saturday

Paris Climate-Change Folly

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 227 words


The Issue: Whether the recent 196-nation agreement in Paris to address climate
change will prove effective.

Good for you, President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry - you finally
got your international agreement on climate change ("Sorry, Enviro-loons, Coal
Is Still King," PostOpinion, George Will, Dec. 17).

True leadership, if there ever was a gold standard.

The only problem is that it's not really enforceable and with the birth of ISIS,
spawned by you and Hillary, we might all be blown up before your tireless
efforts are realized. We all remember your "60 Minutes" interview, when you
dissed Vladimir Putin and called real leadership the willingness to take on
climate change.

So let's recap: Will Iran start a nuclear war as a result of your and Kerry's
Iranian agreement (not a treaty) or will ISIS's 7th century religious fanatics
drop a dirty bomb on US soil? R. Fontana Westbrook, Conn.

To have this climate-change meeting now, with all of the violence and terrorism
going on in the world, is bewildering to me. To actually be talking about future
meteorological events, that may or may not happen in the near and far future, is
also bewildering to me.

How can these foreign leaders actually believe that what they do now will affect
the future outcome of the world by signing a piece of paper?  Mike Pedano South
Farmingdale

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Cooky Climate Claims

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 227 words


The Issue: President Obama's plans to cut the United States' carbon emissions
and other green objectives.

President Obama promised an "all-of-the-above" energy strategy, yet he never
stops pandering to his super-rich, radically green benefactors ("Climate of
Denial," Editorial, April 2).

He wants to rev up EPA regulations so as to circumvent congressional doubts
about the obsession he shares with that propaganda-meister for climate-change
science, Al Gore.

It is ironic that Mr. Big Government has taken credit for the remarkable
private-sector energy boom. That's like a windmill taking credit for the wind.
James Hyland  Beechhurst

If it is true that we are headed for dangerous climate change, then we should
quickly expand the use of coal, the most affordable and reliable energy source,
to cope.

Yet Obama is doing the opposite in the naïve belief that China and India will
follow the United States' lead in trying to accomplish the impossible task of
stopping climate change. Suddenly converting from dependable coal-fired
electricity to flimsy wind and solar power because of climate threats makes
about as much sense as a ship captain ordering the crew to man the lifeboats
because they believe a severe storm is approaching.   Tom Harris Executive
Director

International Climate

Science Coalition

Ottawa, Ontario,

Canada

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday

A splash for the planet Deal on warming

BYLINE: Kathianne Boniello

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 312 words


Nearly 200 countries signed off Saturday on the first global agreement to fight
climate change - an accord aimed at greatly reducing greenhouse gases and
promoting cleaner forms of energy.

The deal, which needs to be ratified by individual governments before taking
effect, is the first pact to ask the world to join in combating global warming.
Previously, only wealthy nations were called on to reduce emissions.

Speaking from Washington, President Obama said the deal offers "the best chance
to save the one planet we have."

It calls for developed countries to provide $100 billion in aid to developing
nations to help them reach the goals.

These include keeping the rise in global temperatures by the year 2100 "well
below" 2 degrees Celsius and "endeavor to limit" them even more, to 1.5 degrees
Celsius.

But the accord imposes no sanctions for noncompliance.

The world has already warmed by about 1 degree Celsius since pre-industrial
times.

The emissions reduction and other targets put forth by each country ahead of the
conference are not legally binding, Obama administration officials say.

The Paris agreement differs from the 1997 Kyoto pact, which put the onus on
developed nations to reduce greenhouse gases. The US signed the Kyoto deal, but
ratification was scuttled in the face of congressional opposition.

It's unclear how much the deal will cost the US, though last month Republican
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy pledged to block the use of taxpayer funds
to support the accord.

Senior administration officials dismissed those who dispute global warming.

"The world has moved way beyond this argument," one official said. "I think what
you're going to see is the private sector is going to move beyond it, and
increasingly, this is going to be an argument made by a few on a shrinking
island."

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warm welcome: Global temperatures get three cheers from Victoria's
Secret models Lily Aldridge, Martha Hunt and Elsa Hosk during a photo shoot
Saturday, as world leaders were finalizing their deal in Paris. (INFphoto.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 2, 2015 Thursday

Climate of Denial

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 300 words


The White House this week released President Obama's master plan for cutting US
carbon emissions by one-third over the next decade - mostly by having the
Environmental Protection Agency crack down on coal and oil plants.

The EPA crackdown involves yet another end-run around Congress - which wouldn't
pass anti-carbon laws even when Democrats ran it for Obama's first two years.

Second, bigger problem: The whole case for man-caused warming has collapsed. The
computer models that represent the crown jewel of climate-change science don't
explain why global average temperatures have been flat for 18 years.

Observed reality doesn't begin to match what the models predict - and the folks
who make those models are still guessing  at why they're so spectacularly wrong.

So the president is aiming to drive up US electricity costs in the name of
fighting a threat that, even if it is real, scientists simply don't understand.

Meanwhile, China keeps building new coal plants faster than Obama can shut US
ones down. It won't stop, and neither will India - because both nations are
intent on growing their way out of poverty.

Yes, the global anti-climate-change dog-and-pony show will keep rolling as long
as diplomats can get free meals out of it. But those conferences have been
failing to "act" for decades now.

Even if Obama's EPA crackdown goes ahead, it's a dead letter if a Republican
wins in 2016 (even money, at this point). And Hillary's no sure bet to stick
with it, either.

Polls show that US public concern over warming is below where it was back in
1989. People are far more worried about jobs - which anti-carbon crackdowns make
more scarce. All Obama's really achieving is to further antagonize Congress and
poison the Democratic Party brand with the general public.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday

Pope Francis in America Take a vow of silence on this, Francis

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 491 words


I'd love to be able to proclaim Jesus Christ was the first tax-cutter, but when
the people tried to sucker him into wandering into fiscal policy, Christ
demurred. "Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and unto God the
things that are God's," he said.

To put it another way, Jesus' kingdom was not of the IRS.

Yesterday, though, Pope Francis, the Rolling Stone pope, tried his hand at
political punditry. It was as awkward as the time he posed for photos holding an
anti-fracking T-shirt.

We look to the Holy Father for spiritual guidance. Moral leadership. Reminders
of eternal truths.

What's the hottest show on the fall TV schedule? Not really a papal thing. Best
steak in Midtown? No need to solicit the pope's opinion. Tips for driving your
spouse wild between the sheets? Again, Francis, not your specialty.

And yet the pope came out with what amounted to a Democratic convention speech
yesterday at the White House, delving into an area in which he has no expertise
whatsoever, the details of President Obama's environmental policy, and endorsing
it.

"I find it encouraging that you are proposing an initiative for reducing air
pollution," the pope said. "Accepting the urgency, it seems clear to me also
that climate change is a problem which can no longer be left to a future
generation."

But there are details to consider, and we all know who lurks in the details.
Thousands of political questions arise when it comes to climate-change policy,
but the Bible is silent on the matter of solar-power subsidies, or whether wind
farms meet a cost-benefit test, or on the merits of the Keystone Pipeline. Pope
Francis ought to be silent on environmental legislation as well. It doesn't
become him to delve into the weeds of Washington policy. L'Osservatore Romano is
not supposed to be Politico.

Worse, as he has done before, the pope hinted that capitalism is a force that
shackles and immiserates, when the exact opposite is true: Even partial market
reforms have, in China and India, lifted hundreds of millions out of abject
poverty and into relative comfort. This is not a miracle, but it is a blessing,
and one that the pope seemingly opposes when he talks about "the millions of
people living under a system which has overlooked them."

In an earlier speech, in Bolivia last July, the pope said, "an unfettered
pursuit of money rules" and called it "the dung of the devil," adding that "once
capital becomes an idol and guides people's decisions, once greed for money
presides over the entire socioeconomic system, it ruins society."

No one is arguing that capital should become an idol, but free markets produce
wealth that puts food in people's mouths and clothes on their backs. The Church
has a historic commitment to battling poverty, and yet its earthly leader is
profoundly ignorant of how history tells us to accomplish this. He shouldn't
flaunt his lack of understanding.

ksmith@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hot Topic: The pope Wednesday lauds President Obama's climate policy.
[Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

DEB ON THE ROAD AGAIN AGAIN [Exclusive] MIA mayor has blown 33 weekdays on
personal travels

BYLINE: Rich Calder

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1079 words


Bill de Blasio isn't just mayor of New York, he's also King of the Road -
spending nearly twice as much time as his predecessor on personal weekday
travels outside the city, The Post has learned.

During his 22 months in office, de Blasio has spent 33 weekdays taking
nonofficial trips as far away as Italy and California, according to a Post
analysis of his mayoral schedules and other records.

By contrast, Mayor Mike Bloomberg spent just 19 weekdays on the road for
anything other than official city business during a comparable time in office,
from January 2002 through October 2003.

De Blasio's travels - many paid for with tax dollars - have taken him to Europe
four times and to Puerto Rico twice. He has also made multiple treks to both
Boston and Chicago.

One getaway last year saw Hizzoner tour Italy with his family for nine days -
five of them weekdays - marking the first time in more than two decades that a
New York City mayor skipped work for longer than a week straight.

De Blasio's six-plus workweeks' worth of travel don't even include jaunts to
Albany or Washington, DC, where he was presumably conducting city business, The
Post's analysis found.

"Instead of going globe-trotting, Mayor de Blasio should be concentrating on the
people who actually elected him," said Joseph Puleo, president of Local 983 of
District Council 37, the city's largest blue-collar municipal-workers union.

"When you also count that he's regularly late to events, it would be
inconceivable for any other city employee to have this many leave issues and
still be able to retain his job."

De Blasio's trips were often for his pet left-wing causes, such as a September
2014 trip to Manchester, England, during which he told members of the British
Labor Party that their country was ready for "bold, progressive change."

Bloomberg's weekday time outside the city included trips to Greece and Colorado
in 2002 to push his bid for the city to host the 2004 Olympics.

In 2003, Bloomberg attended several out-of-state ceremonies, including the
launch of a Staten Island ferryboat from a Wisconsin shipyard.

Unlike de Blasio, Bloomberg didn't take any weekday vacation time - although the
billionaire media mogul frequently spent weekends in Bermuda, where he owns an
oceanfront estate.

Much of de Blasio's travel expenses have been picked up by taxpayers, including
his July trip to the Vatican for a meeting on climate change that cost more than
$16,000, multiple reports say.

His nonprofit fund-raising arm, the Campaign for One New York, has also paid for
some of his travel expenses, including trips to Iowa and Nebraska.

And while de Blasio has picked up the tab for his and his family's vacations,
taxpayers have had to shell out for related expenses, including more than
$10,000 so three staffers could reportedly tag along on the Italy vacation last
year.

A recent Quinnipiac University poll found a majority were turned off by his
travels. Fifty percent said they believed de Blasio's involvement with national
issues was distracting him from his job, while 37 percent didn't believe so.

De Blasio's plan to host a presidential-candidates forum in Iowa this year also
got a thumbs-down, with 56 percent disapproving and just 26 percent approving.

Real-estate mogul Don Peebles, who was a big donor to de Blasio's 2013 mayoral
campaign but is now mulling a run against him in 2017, took a swipe at the
mayor.

"The real problem is how poorly he performs when he is in New York City," he
quipped

De Blasio spokeswoman Karen Hinton defended the travels.

"The mayor is working to help end income inequality in NYC with initiatives that
balance the playing field for all New Yorkers, such as free, universal pre-K,
paid sick leave, and affordable housing," she said in an e-mail.

"He has traveled outside the city to help build a coalition of community leaders
and other elected officials who will tell Congress that action on these issues
and others are sorely needed. It's time well spent."

She said it was "unfair" to include vacation time in the Post analysis.

* March 6, 2014 (Chicago) Discussed income inequality and his pre-K plan at a
seminar on "Leading America's Big Cities in the 21st Century." Also met with
David Axelrod, former political strategist for President Obama.

* May 13, 2014 (Atlantic City) Celebrated opening of a health clinic by the
UNITE HERE union, which aided his mayoral campaign and was formerly run by
cousin John Wilhelm.

* June 26, 2014 (Boston) Promoted unions during speech at UNITE HERE convention.

* July 19-27, 2014 (Italy) Vacationed with family on a tour that included stops
in Rome, Naples and Venice (above).

* Sept. 24, 2014 (Manchester, England) Hyped his "Tale of Two Cities" campaign
strategy while telling the UK's Labor Party that Brits were ready for "bold,
progressive change."

* Nov. 6-8, 2014 (Puerto Rico) Touted his administration's diversity at the
Somos el Futuro conference on Hispanic issues.

* Jan. 20, 2015 (Paris) Offered condolences over deadly terror attacks on the
Charlie Hebdo magazine office and at a kosher supermarket.

* March 23, 2015 (Boston) Blasted income inequality at a meeting of the US
Conference of Mayors.

* April 3-6, 2015 (Puerto Rico) Vacationed with First Lady Chirlane McCray.

* April 15, 2015 (Omaha, Neb.) Urged higher taxes on the rich and an increased
minimum wage during a speech at the University of Nebraska.

* April 16, 2015 (Des Moines, Iowa) Called on Hillary Rodham Clinton and other
presidential candidates to focus on income gap in a speech at Drake University.

* May 14-15, 2015 (California) Hosted San Francisco fund-raiser for his Campaign
for One New York foundation.

Also gave speeches at University of California, Berkeley, and Santa Clara
University, where daughter Chiara is a student.

* July 1-8, 2015 (Southwest and Western US).

Vacationed with family at spots including the Grand Canyon, Santa Fe, NM, and
Los Angeles.

* July 20-22, 2015 (Italy) Warned about climate change during a Vatican City
speech attended by Pope Francis.

* Aug. 17, 2015 (Rhode Island) Day trip with family.

* Aug. 27-28, 2015 (New Haven, Conn.) Helped son Dante settle in as a freshman
at Yale University.

* Sept. 4, 2015. (Connecticut) Day trip with family.

* Oct. 16-18, 2015 (Israel) Met with Palestinian students at a school near
Jerusalem that serves both Arabs and Israelis.

rcalder@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Venice: Mayor deBlasio has crisscrossed the country-and globe-since
taking office last year. Here's a list of his nonofficial travels since entering
office, including vacations and his trips to promote his
"progressiveagenda."-Mayor Bill de Blasio in Puerto Rico, Paris and Israel.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

NY's Oil Idiocy

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 324 words


On Thursday, the state Senate will consider a bill to force all heating oil in
New York to contain at least 2 percent biodiesel. It's a feel-good, do-harm idea
- not least because the law would harm everything it's supposed to help.

The Senate wouldn't be the first to fall for this idiocy. The city already has
such a mandate - and pols here are thinking of bumping it up from 2 percent to
20 percent.

Biodiesel is derived from certain organic material, like soybeans. Laws that
require its use make misguided enviro-nuts feel good - and help lawmakers win
donations from soybean sellers.

But the mandate actually achieves the exact reverse of what its backers promise.

Take the claim that biodiesel is "more efficient." That's 100 percent true - in
Opposite Land. As a new Empire Center-Manhattan Institute report shows, such
fuel is actually less efficient: You need to burn more of it to get the same
amount of heat.

The promise that biodiesel will "result in less air pollution" and cut down on
climate-change gases? Ha!

Biofuels generate "significantly higher emissions of nitrous oxide, a
particularly potent greenhouse gas," the report notes. If you want to fight
climate change, you should pass a law to limit the use of this fuel, or ban it
altogether.

Forcing New Yorkers to use biodiesel might be seen as just another case of
mindless overreach by control-freak lawmakers. (Hey, maybe they can sell
"exemptions.")

But the environmental problems aren't the only cost such laws impose. Not only
are biofuels more expensive, using soybeans for heating fuel (or corn for
ethanol) drives up the price of food. UN officials have even called for a halt
in the use of ethanol to avert a global food shortage.

The good news? There is an energy source that's cleaner than oil: natural gas.
And New York's got plenty in the Marcellus and Utica shale, ready to be
harvested via fracking.

Oops: Gov. Cuomo banned that.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

Small wonder Real change happens from the bottom up, not from government
'creationists'

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 820 words


We know where humanity came from: It evolved incrementally, from the bottom up,
amid much trial and error, not via the top-down efforts of an all-wise creator
who anticipated every contingency and meticulously planned out every last
detail.

So why do we assume government, business and the economy operate this way?

Science writer Matt Ridley, a longtime editor for The Economist, mischievously
asks that question in "The Evolution of Everything." Far from searching for gods
to explain every development, we should instead turn our attention to the
smallest factors, many of them invisible.

"When we find human culture being well adapted to solve human problems," Ridley
writes, "we tend to assume that this is because some clever person designed it
with that end in mind. So we tend to give too much credit to whichever clever
person is standing nearby at the right moment."

Take George Washington's victory at Yorktown. For two centuries we have failed
to grant the mammoth importance of an lethal army nearby: mosquitoes. British
Gen. Charles Cornwallis, adopting a Southern strategy to crush the Continental
Army, attacked via the Carolinas, whose marshy geography created a giant Petri
dish for malaria. The locals had already adapted somewhat to the climate (i.e.,
those who had managed to live that long were not the most susceptible ones to
the disease), but the skin of invading Scottish and German troops created a
playground for malaria.

Moving north and inland to Virginia to get away from the swamps, the remainder
of Cornwallis' devastated army was then ordered back to the coast to await
reinforcements by sea. The fort it chose, Yorktown, was between two swamps on
Chesapeake Bay, and malaria attacked again. Disease forced Cornwallis to
surrender within three weeks, before malaria started to sicken the freshly
arrived French and American troops.

The Internet is a similar story; Al Gore and Barack Obama brag that the
government created it. The truth is that it wasn't until government got out of
the way that what was once the Arpanet, a Pentagon creation, evolved into the
Internet. "If you really want to see the Arpanet as the origin of the Internet,"
Ridley asks, "please explain why the government sat on it for 30 years and did
almost nothing with it until it was effectively privatized in the 1990s, with
explosive results."

Until 1989, the government actually prohibited Arpanet from being used for
private or commercial ends. Ridley quotes a handbook distributed to MIT users of
the Arpanet that read, in the 1980s, "sending electronic messages over the
Arpanet for commercial profit or political purposes is both antisocial and
illegal."

As for the involvement of Internet pioneers such as Paul Baran, Vint Cerf and
Tim Berners-Lee, what they devised was bound to be created by somebody because
of the simultaneous nature of invention and innovation.

"Packet switching," a critical innovation in today's Internet for which Baran is
widely given the credit, would have shortly been developed by a Welshman named
Donald Davies if Baran hadn't been around. If Davies hadn't existed, someone
else would have stepped up. The reason the Internet became what it is now is its
decentralized, non-hierarchical, almost unregulated character - the exact
opposite of how governments usually operate.

Consider the divergence of South Korea and Ghana, two countries that had about
the same per capita income as recently as 1950. One chose trade, the other
picked aid. Aid creates lots of fun jobs for central planners who use people
like chess pieces and figure out how to distribute the wealth from the top,
whereas trade simply allows for wealth to rise up from the bottom. Aid, it turns
out, is simply an unsustainable solution to poverty, and today South Korea has
about 10 times the per-capita income of Ghana.

"The importation of socialism into the Third World," writes economist Deirdre
McCloskey, "even in the relatively nonviolent form of
Congress-Party-Fabian-Gandhism, unintentionally stifled growth, enriched large
industrialists and kept the poor people poor."

Fans of state intervention in the economy - call them government creationists -
insist on giving as much power as possible to an all-wise, all-powerful daddy
figure whom they elect to, for instance, "fix" climate change or health care
with a top-down agenda restricting innovation and imposing ever-more
regulations. Their enemy is experimentation, incremental change - evolution.

Their intelligent designs turn out to be incredibly stupid in practice, and for
their failures the central planners expect to be rewarded with more and more
power. As British politician Douglas Carswell says in "The End of Politics and
the Birth of iDemocracy," planners "consistently underrate the importance of
spontaneous, organic arrangements and fail to recognize that the best plan is
often not to have one."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: South Korea and Ghana had the same per capita income in 1950; today,
South Korea's is 10 times Ghana's figure, because one nation favored technology
entrepreneurship and the other socialism. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

FILM REVIEWS IN BRIEF MERCHANTS OF DOUBT

BYLINE: and Sara Stewart

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 239 words


Tobacco companies have fallen far in recent years, but this zingy documentary
explores how very high their p.r. machines set the bar for public misdirection.

Director Robert Kenner ("Food Inc.") begins with some choice vintage selections
from internal Big Tobacco memos - "Doubt is our product"; "It's not about
cigarettes, it's about freedom" - and ends on the topic du jour, climate change.

As Kenner shows, the subject matter may have changed, but the MO hasn't: A
targeted, cynical campaign introducing skepticism about a public health issue
creates the illusion of a two-sided story - in which one side may be entirely
financed by a vested interest.

Unsurprisingly, many of the same faces repeatedly appear in Kenner's montage of
punditry, most having originated in tobacco.

One oft-quoted "climate change skeptic," Marc Morano, admits in the film, "I'm
not a scientist, but I do play one on TV occasionally   hell, more than
occasionally."

Pepping up this dismal state of affairs is commentary from a magician, Jamy Ian
Swiss, who likens the showmanship of paid pundits to a dishonest version of his
own profession, with serious consequences.

As they're akin to spectators at a magic show, viewers ought to keep an eye out
for what the "Merchants of Doubt" don't want us to see.

Running time: 96 minutes. Not rated (nothing offensive). Now playing.

---

MOVIE REVIEW

MERCHANTS OF DOUBT


(Three stars)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

FILM REVIEWS IN BRIEF ANTARCTIC EDGE: 70 DEGREES SOUTH

BYLINE: Sara Stewart

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 211 words


'IT'S summer camp for nerds," one scientist says, as a handful of researchers
set sail for Antarctica's remote Palmer Station as part of a multidecade study
on the effects of climate change on the region. This ship o' nerds will be
collecting data on the dramatic decrease in sea ice and its devastating impact
on various local species - particularly the Adélie penguin population, shown
being forced to migrate ever southward by warming temperatures. They also study
the further-reaching implications of these man-made changes, increasingly
affecting sea levels and weather patterns, around the world.

These scientists, and the ship's crew, are doing admirable and dangerous work.
They are not, however, innate narrators or performers, and director Dena Seidel
depends too much on them, chronicling extensive descriptions of research
equipment and encouraging them to awkwardly ham it up for the camera. The result
won't likely hold the average viewer's attention, and makes Al Gore's "An
Inconvenient Truth" seem like an action flick by comparison. But "Antarctic
Edge" will make good viewing for science classes of all levels, and ideally
inspire a new generation to continue this mission.

Running time: 82 minutes. Not rated (nothing offensive). Now playing.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Oscar Schofield is one of the Palmer Station researchers featured
in new doc "Antarctic Edge."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Pope Francis in America Golden Rule's the day Message to Congress

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz , Danika Fears , and Bob Fredericks

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 976 words


Pope Francis on Thursday became the first pontiff to address a joint meeting of
Congress, giving a State-of-the-Union-like speech to lawmakers that touched on
issues across the political spectrum, including immigration, poverty, the death
penalty, abortion and same-sex marriage.

The highlight of the address came as the leader of 1.2 billion Catholics
worldwide invoked the Golden Rule, telling some of the most powerful leaders in
America to do unto others as you would have them do unto you.

"This rule points us in a clear direction. Let us treat others with the same
passion and compassion with which we want to be treated," Francis told the
assemblage, which included nearly every member of both houses and members of the
Supreme Court.

He got a standing ovation from conservative lawmakers as he bashed abortion by
declaring "The Golden Rule also reminds us of our responsibility to protect and
defend human life at every stage of its development."

Speaking in halting English, the 78-year-old, Argentine-born pontiff also made
statements near and dear to the hearts of liberal Democrats, as he called for
ending the death penalty.

Hearing that, Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-Brooklyn) shouted "Whooo!" in the packed
House chamber.

"It was unexpected. I didn't expect him to reference that. It was quite a breath
of fresh air," Velazquez told The Post.

The pope also waded into the immigration debate, which has become the biggest
hot-button issue in the current presidential race. He reminded Americans that
nearly all of them were descendents of immigrants themselves.

"Millions of people came to this land to pursue their dream of building a future
in freedom. I say this to you as the son of immigrants, knowing that so many of
you are also descended from immigrants," he said, calling the United States "the
land of the free and home of the brave."

The pontiff, whose parents emigrated from Italy to Argentina, called on
lawmakers to work harder to fight poverty and income equality.

"Keep in mind all those people around us who are trapped in a cycle of poverty.
They, too, need to be given hope," Francis said, while at the same time
declaring that "business is a noble vocation."

The nod to business by the pope - who has in the past criticized capitalism -
wasn't the only GOP-friendly remark. While not directly mentioning same-sex
marriage, he called for the defense of traditional family.

Francis also assailed the international arms trade for causing worldwide death
and suffering for profit.

"Why are deadly weapons being sold to those who plan to inflict untold suffering
on individuals and society? Sadly, the answer, as we all know, is simply for
money - money that is drenched in blood, often innocent blood," he said.

Francis then urged the United States to welcome migrants from Syria and other
areas plagued by violence in the Middle East and Africa.

"We must not be taken aback by their numbers, but rather view them as persons,
seeing their faces and listening to their stories," he said.

He also took aim - without identifying groups like ISIS or al Qaeda by name - at
terrorists sowing death across the world.

"Our world is increasingly a place of violent conflict, hatred and brutal
atrocities, committed even in the name of God. This means that we must be
especially attentive to every type of fundamentalism, whether religious or of
any other kind," the pope said.

Francis repeated his call for action on climate change and his praise of
diplomacy for the thaw in US relations with Cuba and Iran.

The pope's visit moved pols from both sides of the aisle.

House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) - a Catholic who was instrumental in
securing the pontiff's visit - teared up at several points.

Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a Democratic presidential contender who is
Jewish and who is on the opposite ideological pole from Boehner, praised the
pontiff.

"He forces us to address some of the major issues facing humanity: war, income
and wealth inequality, poverty, unemployment, greed, the death penalty," he
said.

Outside the Capitol, tens of thousands filled the lawn, watching and listening
to Francis' remarks on video screens.

After making brief remarks in Spanish on the balcony, Francis concluded by
declaring in English, "God bless America!"

The people's pope then skipped lunch with politicos - and instead hobnobbed with
the homeless.

Francis shouted "Buen apetito!" as he waded through a crowd of 300 at the lunch
hosted by Catholic Charities.

Additional reporting by Geoff Earle , Frank Rosario, Chris Perez

Highlights from Pope Francis' historic address to a joint session of Congress
Thursday:

INCOME INEQUALITY

"I would encourage you to keep in mind all those people around us who are
trapped in a cycle of poverty. They, too, need to be given hope . . .

It goes without saying that part of this great effort is the creation and
distribution of wealth."

DEATH PENALTY

"This conviction has led me ... to advocate at different levels for the global
abolition of the death penalty. I am convinced that this way is the best, since
every life is sacred, every human person is endowed with an inalienable dignity,
and society can only benefit from the rehabilitation of those convicted of
crimes. "

IMMIGRATION/ REFUGEE CRISIS

"We need to avoid a common temptation nowadays: to discard whatever proves
troublesome. Let us remember the Golden Rule: 'Do unto others as you would have
them do unto you'."

ABORTION

"The Golden Rule also reminds us of our responsibility to protect and defend
human life at every stage of its development."

CLIMATE CHANGE

"I am convinced that we can make a difference, and I have no doubt that the
United States-and this Congress-have an important role to play. Now is the time
for courageous actions."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pope Francis speaking to Congress. [Kevin Lamarque/Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 18, 2015 Friday

Climate war heating up

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 98 words


Global warmists are freaking out. In Buffalo, NY, which was buried under seven
feet of snow in November 2014, not a flake has fallen so far this fall. With the
temperature there hitting 71 degrees Fahrenheit Monday, there's no white stuff
forecast in the near future. In Brooklyn and Washington, DC, cherry blossoms,
normally seen in spring, are blooming.

Cheer up, weather freaks. By next month, I'm sure that folks in now-unseasonably
balmy portions of the United States will be digging out of their snowbound
houses and cars with teeth chattering, longing for alleged climate change.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday

De Blasio: Waste not Ambitious recycling plan to slash garbage

BYLINE: Joe Tacopino

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 495 words


Mayor De Blasio will enact a sweeping new plan to tackle the city's trash
problem and drastically restructure home-recycling programs in an effort to
reduce waste exports from 3.6 million tons now to just 600,000 tons by 2030.

The mayor is set to announce his new Zero Waste program on Wednesday, Earth Day,
with an eye to making New York the largest city in the Western Hemisphere to
adopt such a plan.

"The average New Yorker throws out nearly 15 pounds of waste a week, adding up
to millions upon millions of tons a year," he said in a statement.

"To be a truly sustainable city, we need to tackle this challenge head on."

The ambitious plan could also make recycling easier for city dwellers and save
them money, too.

Under the proposal, recycling would be consolidated into one bin by 2020 -
instead of the current separation of various recyclables - and more residents
would become part of the growing food-scrap recycling program started by PlaNYC.

De Blasio largely praised PlaNYC, created by former Mayor Mike Bloomberg to to
deal with the local ­effects of climate change and population growth.

Hizzoner plans to essentially maintain the program but rebrand it into his own
vision called OneNYC.

The city will offer economic incentives to participants, including, possibly, a
homeowner property-tax rebate.

After decades of dumping most of the city's waste into Staten Island's Fresh
Kill's landfill, New York City now exports garbage by rail or barge to
facilities in South Carolina, Virginia, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and upstate.

The new plan would eliminate most garbage exports, which currently cost more
than $350 million a year in fees.

The cost of the new program remains to be seen.

A spokeswoman for the mayor said some of the funding for Zero Waste would be
revealed in next month's city budget proposal, but she cited savings from
shipping out less garbage.

Some West Coast cities, including Seattle and San Francisco, already require
food-scrap composting.

The city is also aiming for a 90 percent reduction in commercial waste by 2030
via a program similar to the one in place for residential buildings.

And de Blasio may be ready for a compromise on a City Council bill that proposes
a 10-cent supermarket plastic-bag fee. Officials said that reducing plastic-bag
use is a priority and that they would work with the council.

The mayor's environmental record already includes a ban on Styrofoam food
containers and a goal to reduce carbon emissions from city buildings 80 percent
by 2050.

With Post Wire Services

---

Trash talk

* The new Zero Waste program would consolidate all of city recycling into one
type of bin by 2020.

* The city will offer economic incentives to participate, including, perhaps, a
propertytax rebate for homeowners.

* The plan would eliminate almost all of New York City's garbage "exports,"
which currently cost more than $350 million a year.

joe.tacopino@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NYC Sanitation employee. [Ellis Kaplan]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 1, 2015 Friday

Where's the beef! [Exclusive] MSG goes meat-free for vegan Morrissey

BYLINE: Carl Campanile , and Chris Perez

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 376 words


Carnivorous fans flocking to Madison Square Garden to see rocker Morrissey next
month will be forced to go vegan or go hungry - because the arena is giving in
to his demands to ban meat at the performance.

The former frontman for the British band "The Smiths" - which had a smash-hit
album called "Meat is Murder" - is scheduled to perform June 27.

Concertgoers craving a burger or hot dog will be asking, "Where's the beef"
after the singer revealed that the Garden had agreed that only strictly vegan
foods would be served during the show.

So no meat - but also no dairy and no fish.

"Serving meat and dairy products at an event to combat climate change is like
selling pistols at a gun control rally," Morrisey said in an open letter to Al
Gore, in which he blasted the former vice president for ignorantly sponsoring
the Earth Live concert series this year without banning meat products.

"Not only is it possible for venues to provide a 100 percent meat-free menu - as
is done now at every concert venue in which I perform, including Madison Square
Garden, where I have a show at the end of June - it's also a moral duty."

The decision to go vegan will be a far cry from what red-meat-loving Knicks and
Rangers fans are used to.

The Garden has a wide range of food choices, many featuring mounds of meat,
including a Carnegie Deli and an Uncle Jack's Steak Sandwich shop.

One staffer at MSG responded with disbelief when told of the meat ban.

"We'd have to close half the floor," the staffer said.

And anyone thinking of sneaking in a pastrami sandwich should note that
Morrissey had security personnel search fans for such "contraband " during a UK
tour in 2011, according to the Mirror.

While MSG officials declined to comment about their culinary accommodation,
restaurateur Drew Nieporent, owner of Daily Burger inside the arena, said he has
no problem following Morrissey's anti- meat rules.

"This is the first time I'm hearing about it," Nieporent said. "But I love my
man, Morrissey. He's a wonderful artist, so I wouldn't mind. He can do whatever
he wants."

Nieporent said he hasn't planned a vegetarian menu because he's going to just
shut down for the night.

"We'll just go and enjoy the music," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Morrissey "It's a moral duty."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 2, 2015 Sunday

Required Reading

BYLINE: BILLY HELLER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 479 words


Avenue of Spies

A True Story of Terror, Espionage, and One American Family's Heroic Resistance
in Nazi-Occupied Paris  by Alex Kershaw  (Crown)

Talk about a dangerous neighborhood. Kershaw ("The Liberator") tells the story
of Sumner Jackson, an American doctor who spent World War II living on Paris's
Nazi-ridden Avenue Foch - where neighbors included not only Gestapo headquarters
but also the man responsible for sending the French Jews to concentration camps.
Horrified by the Jewish roundups, Jackson joined the resistance, running
operations out of his home, right under the Germans' noses. A true story that
reads like a thriller.

Infinite Home  by Kathleen Alcott  (Riverhead Books)

Remember when Brooklyn's Myrtle Avenue was nicknamed Murder Avenue? For the
heroine of Alcott's new novel, life hasn't changed much since that time. Widowed
Edith has lived in her Brooklyn brownstone for 66 years, renting apartments to a
revolving cast of eccentric characters including actors, agoraphobes and
invalids. When Edith's memory starts to fail, her tenants must band together to
keep evil son Owen from evicting them all. An intimate look at life in the
borough of homes and churches.

Walking With Abel  by Anna Badkhen  (Riverhead Books)

If you thought commuting to work in Midtown was rough, try Sub-Saharan Africa.
Badkhen ("Peace Meals") joins a group of Fulani cowherders in Mali on their
annual, year-long trek across the Sahel grassland belt that stretches from the
Indian Ocean to the Atlantic. The odyssey's purpose: to find grazing lands for
their cattle. Although the Fulani have never heard of climate change, they can
document its effects in terms of rising temperatures and shrinking grass supply.
Other problems include the growing threat of Islamic militant groups and the
exodus of young people to cities.

Black Chalk  by Christopher Yates  (Picador)

Yates' novel spins a tale of friendship and betrayal set mostly at the historic
and beautiful Oxford campus. We meet an American expat and the five Brits who
become his pals. But as the group gets involved in a mind game with a cash prize
and the stakes get higher and more dangerous, everything unravels. The
increasingly dark tale travels between that fateful freshman year and
present-day New York.

Shooting for the Stars by R.G. Belsky  (Atria)

Gil Malloy is a cynical New York City tabloid reporter whose best days may be
behind him. He hangs onto his job by a thread - and once in a while he sinks his
teeth into a story that keeps him in the game. In his last time out in "The
Kennedy Connection," he got into the JFK assassination. In his latest adventure,
he delves into the case of Laura Marlowe, a starlet killed by a crazed fan in a
murder-suicide 30 years back, and discovers it's linked to a present-day serial
killer. A fast-paced yarn from tabloid veteran Belsky.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            September 6, 2015 Sunday

The whole picture

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 676 words


The photo of the dead Syrian child who washed ashore in Turkey is heartbreaking,
as are the scenes of migrants throwing themselves on train tracks in Hungary and
thousands of others shunning shelter for a long march to Austria and Germany.

The photos are also misleading. Their emotional power suggests the tragedy would
end if only Europe opened its hearts and doors.

Not so. Millions, perhaps tens of millions, of destitute and desperate people
want out of Syria, Libya, Afghanistan and other hellholes of the Middle East and
North Africa. There is no visible end to the humanitarian crisis historians are
calling the world's worst since World War II, and the comparisons don't end
there.

Then and now, the waves of misery have a common root. This is what happens when
genocidal maniacs are appeased and the West fails to confront them.

The global order that held since Hitler was defeated is disintegrating before
our eyes. Borders are erased and entire populations are put to the sword or
forced to flee the new tyrannical monsters.

This metastasizing catastrophe is not the result of famine or drought or
disease. It is man-made and should have been ­prevented.

But that would have required leaders with the moral conviction of Roosevelt and
Churchill. ­Instead, America and Great Britain are led by frat boys.

Barack Obama and David Cameron indulged themselves in the delusion that human
nature had magically changed and the world would take care of itself while they
gutted the arsenals of ­democracy.

History will record their fecklessness, and that of France, Germany and the
other once-great powers. That is, unless history ­itself is erased by the madmen
of Islamic State.

Not content to slaughter those they deem infidels and apostates, the would-be
Hitlers are cleansing Syria and Iraq of its ancient temples and artifacts. They
aim to control the past as well as the future.

They are deadly serious about their purpose, and so they are winning. We hem and
haw, meet, talk and propose, while they act.

They are not the only malevolent forces on the march. Vladimir Putin, after
gobbling up chunks of Ukraine without paying a serious price, is establishing a
military presence in Syria.

That makes Russia a working partner with Iran, Syria's biggest benefactor, and
creates a new axis of evil in a region already the most dangerous on the planet.

China, too, is aggressively flexing its might. An unusual military parade in
Beijing came as five Chinese warships were spotted off Alaska, within 12
nautical miles of the coast, the Pentagon told The Wall Street Journal. It
reported that a Chinese official said the ships entered the Bering Sea after a
joint military exercise with Russia.

It was surely not a coincidence that the provocation happened with Obama in
Alaska to preach the gospel of climate change. It was almost as though China
decided to mock his absurd assertion that melting ice and rising seas are the
greatest threat. Perhaps Beijing reads his e-mails?

The Chinese, the Russians, the Iranians - they, too, are serious people. Each
has taken the measure of Obama, and now they are taking liberties.

They would be foolish not to. As the calendar moves toward the end of Obama's
tenure, those who wish us ill move faster to claim their trophies, knowing they
will face no resistance.

As a result, the president who declared, "I was elected to end wars, not start
them," has opened the floodgates to our adversaries. Weakness is his legacy.

Obama has been a gift to the worst of the world, topped by his surrender to
Iran. He and the quislings masquerading as the leaders of Europe see no evil as
Iran spreads its tentacles. Sooner, on their own, or later, with America's
blessing, the mullahs will have their doomsday weapon.

The question is not whether they would use it. The question is, why wouldn't
they?

Lenin supposedly boasted that "the capitalists will sell us the rope with which
we will hang them."

Actually, we didn't sell our enemies anything. We gave it to them.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Child crawls under barbed wire. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

Like or not: O on F'book

BYLINE: Danika Fears

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 184 words


President Obama launched his own Facebook page on Monday - but he's not looking
for a "friend."

"Hello, Facebook! I finally got my very own page," his first post read. "I hope
you'll think of this as a place where we can have real conversations about the
most important issues facing our country - a place where you can hear directly
from me, and share your own thoughts and stories."

The account is actually a "page" rather than a personal profile, which means
fans can "like" the president, but not "friend" him.

Obama, who joined Twitter in May, devoted his first thoughts on Facebook to
climate change.

"We've got to preserve this beautiful planet of ours for our kids and grandkids.
And that means taking serious steps to address climate change once and for all,"
the president wrote.

He also promised to include some lighter topics.

"You can expect some just-for-fun stuff, too," he wrote.

The post, which had already received more than 250,000 likes late Monday,
included a short video of Obama walking through his "back yard" at the White
House while discussing the environment.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

Bloomberg cash PACs real punch Ex-mayor spends $72M

BYLINE: Aaron Short

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 706 words


It's not cheap to win friends and influence elections.

Ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg has spent $72 million in the past four years to boost
his chosen candidates and pet causes across the country, records reviewed by The
Post show.

The billionaire's largesse intensified in 2012 when he launched his own
political action committee, Independence USA PAC, and in 2014 with the creation
of his nonprofit Everytown for Gun Safety fund.

He has spent $34.6 million on winning candidates and causes - and $21.4 million
on losers. And he spent another $16 million on pet issues that were not linked
to particular candidates, such as gun control and climate change.

The Post tallied up Bloomberg's individual contributions, his groups' spending
on candidates and his PAC's television contracts since 2012.

Bloomberg has won more battles than he's lost - going 31 to 15 on races and
ballot initiatives in which he spent more than $10,000 in PAC money, for an
impressive .674 winning percentage.

He lavished money on 27 Democrats, 13 Republicans and six independent
candidates, plus initiatives in 25 states across the country.

No race was too big or too small for the Bloomberg machine. He personally gave
up to the $5,400 legal limit to US senators and governors, as well as to
candidates for state legislatures and school boards.

But 27 incumbents and challengers suckled hundreds of thousands of dollars in
donations and television ad buys from Bloomberg and his PACs.

Such groups have no limits on political spending on behalf of a candidate as
long as it is not a direct contribution to that candidate's campaign coffers.
And the money spent on issue ads that could sway an election - such as gun
control - is not even counted by the feds as political contributions.

A lucky 13 candidates got more than a million dollars from Bloomberg PACs - one
of them twice.

Pro-gun-control Illinois Republican Bob Dold received $3.7 million in
contributions and ads for his winning bid in 2014 - after Dold cost Bloomberg $2
million for losing the same race in 2012.

Bloomberg poured $1.7 million and $3.5 million into campaign funds and TV ads
for gun-control Govs. Dannel Malloy (D-Conn.) and Rick Snyder (R-Mich.),
respectively, in 2014.

And Virginia Democrat Jeremy McPike should add Bloomberg to his Christmas card
list after accepting $1.4 million for his 2015 state Senate race.

Bloomberg, whose fortune is estimated to be north of $37 billion, wasted
millions on lost causes as well.

Former Orlando Police Chief and Democrat Val Demings couldn't topple Republican
Daniel Webster in a congressional race in Florida despite garnering $5.2 million
in donations and TV ads from Bloomberg in 2012. She is running again in 2016.

And Virginia Democrat Dan Gecker couldn't win a state Senate seat in 2015 even
though he benefited from $1.2 million of Bloomberg's cash.

This fall, Bloomberg vowed to spend $10 million on TV ads castigating attorneys
general in Florida, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Missouri for suing to overturn a
federal plan to reduce power-plant pollution. He has spent $5 million on his
climate-change campaign so far this year.

Team Bloomberg remains confident in its electioneering abilities.

"Mike formed the PAC to stand up for people willing to do the right thing in the
face of difficult local politics," said Bloomberg spokesman Marc LaVorgna.

"We don't cherry-pick easy races like many groups do," he added. "We're proud to
have helped make the difference in electing bipartisan leaders around the
country."

WIN SOME, LOSE SOME

Former Mayor Michael Bloomberg has spent $72 million on campaigns since 2012.

TopWIns

n California US House challenger Gloria McLeod (D) 2012: $4.2M

n Illinois US House challenger Robin Kelly (D) 2013: $4.1M

n Washington state gun-buyers background checks, 2014: $4M

n Illinois US House challenger Robert Dold (R), 2014: $3.7M

Top Losses

n Florida US House challenger Val Demings (D), 2012: $5.2M

n Dem Governors Assn., 2014: $2.8M

n Dem Senate Majority PAC, 2014: $2.5M

n Connecticut US House challenger Andrew Roraback (R), 2012: $2.3M

PIE CHART $34.6M Winners $21.4M Losers $16M Issues (no winner or loser)

ashort@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former Mayor MICHAEL BLOOMBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

Horrible 'green' monsters

BYLINE: ANDREA PEYSER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 110 words


The only way these fiends can save the planet is by getting locked up - the
longer the better.

On Sunday, the eve of the start of the United Nations climate-change summit
outside Paris, hundreds of anti-global warming zealots, some in masks, clashed
with riot police and trashed a memorial of flowers and candles dedicated to
those killed in the Nov. 13 terrorist attacks and the January assaults on
Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket. More than 200 people were arrested and
face charges, but some were set free. To protest the arrests, the hacker group
Anonymous posted private data online of some 1,415 officials.

The creeps should pay. All of them.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

Bear's 'Wild' Walk Grylls reveals secrets of historic POTUS visit

BYLINE: and Andrea Morabito

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 438 words


Donald Trump may be the first reality TV presidential candidate - but President
Barack Obama now has some Hollywood cred of his own since becoming the first
sitting president to participate in a reality show, NBC's "Running Wild with
Bear Grylls."

The special episode featuring Obama (airing Dec. 17 at 10 p.m.) was filmed in
early September, while POTUS was in Alaska to attend the Conference on Global
Leadership in the Arctic. Grylls promises it will show "a side of the president
you never have seen before" as Obama opens up to the host about his fears and
family (while avoiding bears).

"He really does live in such a bubble and it's almost like a bit of a cage
it's very hard to have the freedom to actually go and do anything. The wild
gives you that," Grylls said on a recent press conference call. "There's no set
routes, you work your way up and down   making tents, making fires. [Things
that] someone like him doesn't get the chance to do."

Filming with the Commander-in-Chief proved decidedly more complicated than the
show's usual bare-bones production - with helicopters, snipers and a Secret
Service entourage that numbered about 50. There was even a staffer tasked with
approving what the President could eat and drink in the wild - though that
didn't stop Obama from eating a bear-gnawed salmon, sharing a water bottle with
Grylls and drinking tea brewed from berries collected from the forest.

Along the way, they discussed plenty of off-script topics, including Grylls'
reputation for drinking his own urine - and making others indulge in that
unusual approach to rehydration in survival situations.

"He had this look in his eyes of, 'Uh-oh, I hope you're not going to ask me to
do that,'" Grylls recalls. "He wanted to understand the science behind it and
why it can save your life. I had a funny conversation about when pee is good and
when pee is bad and how berries can help people's flatulence. Lavatory humor is
always a great leveler."

The host said the two men also bonded over fatherhood (Grylls has three young
sons), faith and a shared concern for the environment in their trek across the
Alaskan wilderness, which included a visit to the famed Exit Glacier.

"One of the big reasons he wanted to do this was to see the effects of climate
change close-up. He's a dad and he wants to preserve the planet for his
children's future and I feel the same way," Grylls says.

"When he could put his hand on it and see how far this lump of ice is retreating
and shrinking   [that] was quite a powerful moment for him I think."

"Running Wild with Bear Grylls"

10 p.m. Dec. 17 on NBC

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -MAKING STRIDES: Bear Grylls and President Obama on the Dec. 17
"Running Wild" special.-CALL IT 'THE CHEW': Grylls and the president chow down
on some Alaskan salmon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday

GLOBAL CITIZEN From Chicago to Harlem to D.C., Anglo-African architect DAVID
ADJAYE is making his mark across America

BYLINE: and Hana R. alberts

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 767 words


DESIGN MIND Q+A

David Adjaye is already a thoughtful man. Plus, he's got a lot on his mind right
now: born to Ghanaian parents in Tanzania and raised in the U.K., the architect
is at work on Washington, D.C.'s $500 million Museum of African American History
and Culture.

Located right on the National Mall, it's set to open next year.

Across the globe, Adjaye recently unveiled plans for a geometric-looking
children's cancer treatment center in Rwanda that incorporates shapes and colors
favored by local artists.

He's also the man behind Oslo's traditional-meets-modern Nobel Peace Center.
Closer to home, his cantilevered affordable housing opened its doors in Harlem
last summer - the same neighborhood where he is overhauling the Studio Museum.

Adjaye has also designed private homes for the late designer Alexander McQueen
and actor Ewan McGregor, among other bold-faced names.

He's also come up with furniture for brands like Knoll. A retrospective of his
work just debuted at the Art Institute of Chicago, where it is on view until
Jan. 3. Adjaye told The Post about the people and places that fire up his
creative juices and how architecture can - and should - change the world.

Of course I draw from Africa. It's my heritage. But I also draw from many other
things. That's what architects do - we are planetary creatures.

When you move around a lot, you start to realize how explicitly different
geographies inform the ways of cities and places. Very early on, I came into
contact with different ways of living in space.

I am really inspired by buildings that respond very directly to climate, local
materials and the culture of their place. I am awed by Egypt's Karnak Temple,
one of the earliest and most impressive cathedrals of the ancient world. The
Great Mosque of Djenné in Mali is another favorite. It symbolizes an incredible
fusion of West African and Islamic culture that has made for a unique, entirely
mud-brick building. It "returns to the earth" every six months when the local
population "re-muds" it after the rainy season.

The relationship between modern and ancient is very present in my work, as is
the negotiation between different social and cultural contexts. That is
intrinsic to my approach toward design, which always seeks to be highly
sensitive to the cultural framework of different peoples.

A series of monumental sculptures, Luis Barragan's Torres de Satélite in Mexico
City - a moving composition - established a strong resonance with urbanity and
materiality in the city.

I see the tea houses of Kyoto as a profound investigation by Japanese culture
exploring the relationship between the garden, the folly and the spirit.

I am someone who loves collaboration and dialogue. I love the way that this kind
of exchange forces me out of an architectural framework and engage in a larger
cultural discourse about meaning.

I have been inspired by people like Oscar Niemeyer, who was working until he
died at 104, which is incredible to me. I've also had some incredible times with
Charles Correa, and was deeply saddened when he passed away. His Kanchanjunga
Apartments project in Mumbai is a seminal piece of modern architecture that
speaks as much to the modernism lineage as it does to its climate and culture.
And another favorite is Hassan Fathy.

I don't think in terms of singular projects. Rather my ideal is to be able to
explore new typologies, experiment with different materials and establish a
meaningful connection to contemporary culture while exploring a social
discourse. It is the act of engagement, the methodology, which excites me - more
so than any idea of the physical manifestation of that process.

The inspiration for the Double Zero chairs by Moroso was seeing if we could
elementalize the chair and reconsider its symbolic role today. I liked the idea
of trying to rediscover various states of the chair and its functions. I wanted
to see if we could find a modernist approach to 18th-century French round-backed
chairs - this is how we arrived at two circular pads that support the user, and
this ribbon of metal that flies around them.

For me, the primary act of architecture is to be socially edifying and socially
liberating. It's an emancipatory form. And inherent to this is having a politic
which is to do with bringing people up, the politics of progression and of the
progression of people.

When you are studying architecture, you must not look at it as simply a
profession. You have to be committed to changing or adding to the discussion of
the world's environment. That's what drives you.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Adjaye (left), who's known for his groundbreaking designs like D.C.'s
African-American museum (bottom inset), is inspired by the work of the late
Oscar Niemeyer (inset below). [Courtesy of Adjaye Associates]-An Art Deco-style
Double Zero chair (left) Adjaye designed for Italian furniture-maker Moroso; his
limited-edition bronze coffee table (right) for Knoll starts at $50,000.
[Alessandro Paderni]-The architect's Nobel Peace Center in Oslo. [Courtesy of
Adjaye Associates]-Egypt's giant Karnak Temple moves Adjaye.-Adjaye fan Ewan
McGregor.-Adjaye also digs Japanese tea houses. [Getty Images (2)]-Museum of
African American History and Culture, Washington, D.C. [Courtesy of Adjaye
Associates]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 10, 2015 Sunday

JOLTing news on job openings DEAR JOHN ... The Answer Man

BYLINE: JOHN CRUDELE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 878 words


Dear John: Once again the economics cartel is standing in a hall of mirrors and
counting every image its sees when only one is real.

An analysis of the true number of job openings will give a more sober view. I am
providing the following to emphasize my point.

I led a proposal effort for a defense support contract that was submitted in
January and will probably be awarded in late August/September, or more likely in
January 2016.

The two initial task orders were for about 90 to 100 full-time employees. There
were 20 bidders and, like all contracts of this type, these bidders will start
or have already started posting the openings on their Web sites and other
job-search forums.

A simple count of the number of posted jobs would indicate 1,800 to 3,000
openings (across multiple job sites) when in reality, there will only be 90 to
100 jobs.

This is very common in the government contracting world.

If there is truly a large number of openings, it should become apparent in the
next eight to 12 months as the labor participation rate increases. I suspect
that this will not happen until companies begin to have more confidence in the
economy, see unequivocally that they are losing revenue because of short
staffing and become willing to stop sitting on massive amounts of cash. B.C.

Dear B.C.: Thanks for the very interesting insight. If what you say is correct -
and I have no reason to doubt it - then the Job Opening and Labor Turnover
(JOLTS) data that Wall Street loves to watch is a crock. The next JOLTS comes
out on Tuesday.

Dear John: I enjoyed your article about the rigged unemployment numbers.

But my friend, who is a top US economist who will go unnamed, disputes your
claims.

Would you respond to his criticism of your ideas?

He has two objections: your citing of seasonal factors, and that unemployment
only counts active job-seekers.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes the non-seasonally adjusted data for
all who want it, so it's not being swept under the rug. But the non-seasonal
data is dominated by massive and recurring seasonal patterns, so of course the
market is right to focus on the adjusted number as more informative of the state
of the business cycle.

Since the unemployment data began in 1939, it has always only counted active
job-seekers. So there is zero change in methodology there. It is true that some
folks have simply given up looking, but they are counted in another category of
the broader labor market, such as the so-called U-6 unemployment rate. Chris

Dear Chris: If your friend is an economist and is unaware that the commonly used
jobless number doesn't count people who've stopped looking for work - who are
"discouraged" - then he doesn't know what he's talking about.

And, yes, only people looking for work are counted as unemployed. That seems
reasonable. And I'll take your word that the unemployment rate methodology goes
back to 1939.

But how BLS defines unemployed would-be workers who are discouraged was
dramatically changed in 1994 during the Clinton administration. Suddenly a lot
of discouraged workers were excluded from all of the unemployment measures. And
that helped the unemployment rate.

So while the broad methodology may be the same, the details inside the numbers
are quite different.

If you've read my columns, you should already know that I've dealt with the
broader unemployment figures like U-6 a lot. But U-6 doesn't include all the
people who've given up. People who haven't looked for work in a year - because
of the '94 changes - are no longer considered unemployed.

How many people became so discouraged during the recent economic downturn that
they gave up looking for work for a year or more? Lots.

And those people, by DC's definition, are no longer unemployed.

There's also a point of emphasis.

The BLS puts only one unemployment rate - U-2 - in the body of its monthly press
release. If you want to know the others, you have to dig through the tables. Few
people do.

Now for the issue of seasonal adjustments.

These adjustments are absolutely necessary, as you and your economist friend
said. And I've said so in my columns many times.

Seasonal adjustments, like the seasons, normally come full circle. So if, say,
inflation is being made to look lower in the spring than it actually is, then
the figures will adjust later in the year to make up for that.

But the Labor Department uses what's referred to as concurrent seasonal
adjustments.

However, seasonal adjustments like this can be thrown off because the "seasons"
are not normal. And that's exactly what has been happening to a lot of seasonal
adjustments - the economy has gone through abnormal periods since the Great
Recession.

So when the seasonal adjustments look to see what has happened during the same
time of year over the past half-decade, they are thrown off.

If you look at columns I did in December and January, you'll see that I reported
that the seasonal adjustments to the monthly job report looked off. And they
were - the job figures were revised lower by BLS on a second look.

Thanks for writing.

Send your questions to Dear John, The New York Post, 1211 Ave. of the Americas,
NY, NY 10036, or john.crudele@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday

NY lea$t (least) free of all Taxes, regs blamed

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 320 words


New York came in dead last of the 50 states in a survey of "economic freedom"
because of its high taxes, large government and business regulations.

New Hampshire ranked No. 1 in the Toronto-based, libertarian Fraser Institute's
study issued Tuesday.

"The link between economic freedom and prosperity is clear - states that support
low taxation, limited government and flexible labor markets see greater economic
growth, while states with lower levels of economic freedom see lower living
standards and less economic opportunity," said Fred McMahon, co-author of the
study.

The Empire State ranked 49th in taxes, 48th in government spending and 45th in
labor regulations for fiscal year 2013, the most recent data studied.

The analysis includes local as well state taxation on property, income, sales
and businesses.

New York was penalized in the report for imposing higher tax rates on upper-
income earners, as well as high property taxes.

"Marginal income-tax rates represent the direct penalty on economic activity,"
the study said. "As the tax burden grows, the restrictions on private choice
increase and thus economic freedom declines."

Gov. Cuomo, who is phasing in some business- and estate-tax cuts, sought to
discredit the report.

"This is from an institute that does not believe cigarette smoke causes cancer.
Enough said," said Cuomo spokesman John Kelly, referring to a decades-old
controversy.

Chief researcher McMahon said Cuomo was trying to change the subject.

"I wonder if the governor would take responsibility for everything the
Democratic Party said 20 years ago and would disavow everything the party says
now if he found one piece of policy from one researcher he disagreed with in the
early 1990s," McMahon said.

A separate study released Monday by the Tax Foundation ranked the state 49th -
ahead only of New Jersey - for its "business climate."

ccampanile@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Jersey's No. 1! EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 379 words


Want the good news or bad news first?

The good news is New Jersey ranks as the richest state in America, at least
according to the financial-research firm WalletHub. That tied it with the
District of Columbia. The WalletHub rankings are based on income, GDP and taxes
paid.

The bad news? Everyone in Jersey seems to be heading for the exits.

That's the latest nugget from United Van Lines, the largest mover of household
goods in the United States.

The moving company has been tracking this information for nearly four decades.
Its Annual National Movers Study for 2014 ranked the Garden State as tops for
having the largest percentage of people moving to another state, with 65% of the
Jersey moves headed outbound.

New York shouldn't get complacent: The same data show the Empire State right
behind Jersey at 64%. In other words, for every one household that moved in,
roughly two moved out. Connecticut at 57% wasn't as bad as New York or New
Jersey, but it still made the top 10.

Now, moving vans are only one measure of population patterns. But the United Van
Lines studies have roughly tracked Census and IRS data showing more and more
people in our tri-state area moving elsewhere, especially to states "where
housing costs are relatively lower, climates are more temperate and job growth
has been at or above the national average."

One of them is Florida, a state that has no income tax, plenty of sun and a
governor, Rick Scott, who used his annual address this past Tuesday to say he
intends to poach even more citizens from this area.

The consequences of a population exodus are almost always grim. At a time when
state budgets are already strapped, it means lower tax revenues. It also means
less political representation in Washington. And it means a more dismal outlook
for jobs and the economy as people take their capital and know-how with them.

Both Govs. Cuomo and Chris Christie campaigned on the understanding that their
states' high taxes and heavy regulations were a huge obstacle to the future of
their states.

Unfortunately, the gains since then have been small and marginal. And until our
respective establishments in Albany and Trenton change this, the most important
votes our citizens cast will continue to be with their feet.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

US Justice Dept. report will slam Ferguson

BYLINE: Joe Tacopino

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 122 words


The Justice Department is close to releasing a report that slams the city of
Ferguson, Mo., for creating an unhealthy climate between police and the
African-American community.

The findings, which could be made public this week, cite the disproportionate
ticketing and arresting of African-American men and teens, and using the fines
to balance the city budget, The New York Times reports Monday.

The probe was sparked by the fatal shooting of unarmed teen Michael Brown last
year. The findings will likely force police brass to make changes.

Officer Darren Wilson was not indicted in the shooting and is unlikely to face
federal charges.

The report is the precursor to a possible civil suit by the feds against the
city.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 19, 2015 Sunday

Student jocks due pay Dear John ... The Answer Man

BYLINE: JOHN CRUDELE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 712 words


Dear John: This won't be a nasty note, but rather will propose a compromise to
the debate over student athletes being paid.

I disagree with your overall stand. My compromise is this: Pay them. Your part
in the compromise? Since they're now being paid, they can pay their own tuition,
room and board.

They can't have it both ways.

Either they take the current situation - worth upward of $250,000 - or they go
for the pay. Sounds more than reasonable to me. But I already paid for
non-athletes to go to school, so my point of view may be skewed.

This approach may actually help them get an education, as they'll have some skin
in the game.

My daughter is in fundraising at an elite college. Throughout colleges, athletes
who have received scholarships do not contribute after graduation at a rate even
close to those who had to pay. Make of it what you will, but my take is that
something gained at a lesser price is appreciated less. V.M.

Dear V.M.: So a high-school athlete gets to choose Door No. 1, which is a full
scholarship, room and board. Or Door No. 2, which gives him or her some level of
pay for their efforts, but he or she has to foot his or her own education bills.

But the pay would obviously have to exceed the - let's use your number -
$250,000 that an education allegedly costs over four years. If not, the student
athlete really doesn't have any choice.

The problem is this: The school's real cost isn't $250,000. Syracuse University
only has to put another chair in a classroom to accommodate the student athlete.
They aren't paying professors for the number of kids they teach.

Room and board is a somewhat fixed cost. But the cafeteria doesn't make just
enough food for the students who may come to eat. So even there you could argue
that a student athlete is only eating what would be left over and thrown out. So
there's no real cost to the school here either.

So no university would be willing to pay a student athlete $250,000 to attend.
They couldn't afford to, especially for the third-string linebacker or the kid
on the basketball team sitting the bench. Therefore, I politely reject your
compromise.

As for fundraising: That's a whole different story. Maybe student athletes think
their contribution to the school was the years they played for free while their
alma mater was cashing the checks.

But there's something we can take away from your letter and it's this: Somewhere
out there is a solution that'll keep college-sports crazy people like me happy
and be fair to athletes. Keep looking and we'll find it. Thanks for the letter.

Dear John: I look forward to reading your column each Sunday because you often
cut through the fog of irrationality. Recently, however, I think you have been
enveloped, temporarily I hope, by that fog.

Raise gas taxes? And do so while gas prices are down so that we really won't
notice? That would be an incentive for the government to keep gas prices down?

If we can admit that government is not at all responsible with our money, it
seems silly to advocate giving it more, rather than limiting what it gets and
encouraging it to be more responsible.

Raising taxes while prices are down so we "wouldn't even miss [the money]" is
disingenuous and would be expected from a big-spending politician, not a
logical, responsible advocate of honesty.

Finally, the anti-fossil fuel crowd is in power, trying to scare us with stories
of climate change and pushing renewable energy that is not, as of yet,
particularly efficient. They do not want gas prices to remain down, and they
don't give a damn about the costs of gasoline. R.S.

Dear R.S.: Maybe I was sniffing gasoline fumes when I wrote that.

Or maybe my brain was rattled because I had just hit one of the millions of
enormous potholes on our roads and thought maybe - just maybe - someone should
have enough money to fill one or two of them.

OK, the hell with the potholes. And don't worry about the vets, they can take
care of themselves. (I also proposed using extra gas tax revenue for that.)

Let's live in an every-man-for-himself society. And may the best man (Dar-)win.

Send your questions to Dear John, The New York Post, 1211 Ave. of the Americas,
NY, NY 10036, or john.crudele@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday

Mayor's compost command

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen and Lia Eustachewich

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 266 words


More composting is on the menu to reduce the city's waste stream - and it could
become mandatory if residents don't meet goals, Mayor de Blasio said on
Wednesday.

"If the private sector doesn't get there [in reducing emissions], we'll mandate
it, because it's about the survival of the earth," he said.

"Similarly, with composting, I think there's a lot of ways we can teach people
to make it simpler, make it better . . . but we're going to figure out if we're
not getting where we need to go what kind of other tools we need."

De Blasio promised that government buildings would pave the way in reducing the
city's greenhouse gases by 80 percent by 2050.

His sweeping plan, dubbed OneNYC and announced on Earth Day, also set a target
of zero waste going to landfills by 2030.

"We're going to constantly drive down the amount of waste we create through
composting, through better recycling," the mayor said.

Currently, a composting program covers 100,000 homes in select neighborhoods,
including Park Slope in Brooklyn, Middle Village in Queens and Throggs Neck in
The Bronx.

The program is expanding this year by another 35,000 homes. But for residents
it's entirely voluntary.

Some businesses are now required by law to separate organic waste for composting
purposes.

De Blasio's new environmental initiatives may not be all that feasible - yet,
experts say.

The New York League of Conservation Voters said the city needs better facilities
to process organic material. "There's some very real obstacles that have to be
overcome," said league president Marcia Bystryn.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 20, 2015 Wednesday

TOMORROW NEVER FLIES The future looks cool, but a bewildering story drags
Clooney flick down

BYLINE: and Lou Lumenick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 536 words


"Must I explain everything to you?" Frank, a cranky, reclusive scientist played
by a miscast George Clooney, tells an intruder when the star finally makes a
proper appearance an hour into Disney's disappointing sci-fi epic
"Tomorrowland."

"Can't you just be impressed and move on?" the exasperated Frank asks. Sorry,
no.

"Mad Max: Fury Road" demonstrated precisely how to present an involving
post-apocalyptic story with minimal explanation, but even reams of preachy
dialogue and graphics fail to pull together "Tomorrowland" as anything like a
coherent moviegoing experience.

There's plenty of futuristic eye candy, and director Brad Bird (of the Pixar
masterpieces "The Incredibles" and "Ratatouille") and his co-screenwriter, Damon
Lindelof of TV's "Lost,'' have crafted some memorable sequences. But the film
never adds up to the sum of its parts, effectively a two-hour trailer for a
movie I'd still be interested in seeing.

Britt Robertson ("The Longest Ride") has the main role - Casey Newton, a teenage
brainiac (or so the script insists) whose dad (Tim McGraw) pulls strings to get
her out of jail after she's caught trying to sabotage plans to demolish a NASA
launchpad at Cape Canaveral.

This somehow attracts the attention of Athena (Raffey Cassidy), a mysterious
ostensible 12-year-old who we've already seen in a prologue luring young Frank
into a futuristic world at the 1964 New York World's Fair - by way of a trap
door in Disney's "It's a Small World" ride.

Athena gifts Casey a Tomorrowland pin that allows our heroine to enter this same
world when she touches it - at least until the battery runs out. Casey's hooked
and makes a memorable visit to a memorabilia shop in Texas (run by Kathryn Hahn
and Keegan-Michael Key) as part of her effort to return to Oz.

Then, Casey hits the road in a stolen car with Athena en route to the
middle-aged Frank, who wants nothing to do with either one of them - at least
until an army of killer robots (don't ask) shows up.

There are some more delights along the way - Frank's booby-trapped house and an
antique rocket launched from beneath the Eiffel Tower - but the film goes into
free-fall after it gets to Tomorrowland. Seemingly the only human occupant of
this Shangri-La is "Governor" David Nix (Hugh Laurie), who comes off like the
most reasonable of the major characters (though that doesn't seen to have been
the intention).

But many unanswered questions are raised. The city is said to be the brainstorm
of geniuses like Edison, but there's no clue who exactly built and paid for it.
If young Frank was raised by Nix, as appears to be the case, does adult Frank
have daddy issues? And how exactly did Frank learn that his dreamgirl Athena,
who was effectively his stepsister, is (very minor spoiler here) not human?

And except for an offhand reference to climate change deniers, this vaguely
liberal Disney film is unwilling to assign any blame for a global apocalypse
that might perturb any corporation or government that does business with the
Mouse House.

---

MOVIE REVIEW

TOMORROWLAND


(Two stars)

Goes off the monorails.

Running time: 130 minutes. Rated PG (violence, frightening images). Opens
Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Disney's "Tomorrowland" looks great, but isn't very fulfilling.-George
Clooney barely gets any screen time till an hour into "Tomorrowland."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Assessing Obama's Legacy: Failure on a Global Scale

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 659 words


The Issue: President Obama's refusal to admit that slamic State has made major
gains in Iraq and Syria.

After reading Michael Goodwin's column, I have to ask: Is President Obama really
asleep ("Someone Wake Up the Prez," May 24)?

I don't believe it for a minute. He's also not naive or stupid. He knows exactly
what he's doing in the Middle East.

While Obama says what he thinks Americans want to hear, and does a few things to
make it appear America is winning the war on terror, he's actually doing nothing
to prevent ISIS from conquering more territory and killing more people who don't
agree with its interpretation of Islam.

Sally Schneider

Thousand Oaks, Calif.

The fall of Ramadi, and the ancient Syrian city of Palmyra are the latest
debacles caused by Obama's withdrawal of the victorious American army from Iraq
in 2011.

The president should have known that Islamists and Iran would immediately move
in to fill the vacuum. He has rejected Iraq's requests for advisers and trainers
and for small-arms and ammunition. His pin- prick air attacks on ISIS have been
ineffective. Obama has released five top Taliban commanders from Gitmo only to
have them try to return to the battlefield and has refused to give any military
aid to the Kurds.

The Democrats and the mainstream media will never question Obama's real agenda.
It's time for the American people to consider the possibility their president,
who will never say "radical Islam," doesn't care if ISIS and Iran take over
Iraq, Syria and the entire Middle East.

George Rubin

The Bronx

Goodwin's column describing Obama as being asleep on the ISIS issue may or may
not be correct.

In comparing Obama's childish comment that "we are not losing" to the comments
made by great statesmen and orators like Roosevelt, Churchill and MacArthur, it
depends on the meaning of "we."

Jim Ahlers

N. Massapequa

From Michael Goodwin to John Podhoretz's "Desperate For a Legacy" to The Post
editorial, "O's ISIS Un-Strategy" (PostScript, May 24), it's all part of the
same problem.

Obama doesn't believe in America as a force for good; he sees the opposite, or,
at the very least, sees it as an obstruction to peace.

His worldview denies that nations act in their best interests.

This ignores history.

From the 300,000 dead Syrians to the beheading of Christians and others in the
Middle East to northern Africa, the slaughter of innocents won't end without
free people intervening, hopefully before it gets to our shores. That will be
his legacy.

Robert Sanfilippo

Roslyn Heights, NY

Having arguably your two best writers, Podhoretz and Goodwin, blitz the
president for his completely failed Mideast policy made morning coffee and a
bagel hard to swallow.

It's daunting to realize that one man can be so blind, so immune to facts and
the reality on the ground. And his continued refusal to impose American
authority anywhere in that region gives an answer to why the word "victory" has
never in more than six years passed his lips.

My belief that Obama wants America much diminished militarily, a result of which
will be an atomic Iran and a dangerous duo of Russia and China is not popular.

But aside from leftist zealots spewing talking points, there is no hard evidence
otherwise, only the fractured image painted by Podhoretz and Goodwin that Obama
is our worst failure. Ever.

Rich Klitzberg

Boca Raton, Fla.

The only legacy Obama will get is the one he truly deserves. He will be
remembered as the worst person ever elected to the office he now holds.

What else could he expect, with the stupid things he has done to this great
country?

V.R. Drake

Fresh Meadows, NY

President Obama spoke before US Coast Guard Academy graduates and warned that
the greatest threat to national security is climate change.

Sorry, Mr. President, but the greatest threat to our national security is you.

Joe Alloy

Wayne, NJ

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

Awkward moment

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 227 words


Monica Lewinsky avoided an inconvenient confrontation with Bill Clinton's former
Vice President Al Gore at an advertising festival in Cannes, after she delivered
a speech about the online bullying she received following her affair with
Clinton. The Guardian reports that Lewinsky, who spoke about being "patient
zero" of Internet shaming at Cannes Lions on Thursday, was "barred from sharing
a VIP box" with Gore at the final awards night of the festival on Saturday. Gore
had delivered a seminar on Friday about his work fighting global warming and was
being given the LionHeart award Saturday for those efforts. Gore was reportedly
infuriated with Clinton over his behavior with Lewinsky - the fallout from the
scandal hurt his own presidential bid in 2000, and his relationship with the
Clintons has remained complicated ever since. But Lewinsky insists she was not
kicked out of Gore's area at the Palais des Festivals, but instead declined to
enter the mayoral box after she was told that Gore was already seated inside.
Instead, she sat in the audience. Lewinsky said last night, "I have tremendous
respect for the critical work on climate change former Vice President Gore is
doing and for which he was honored at Cannes Lions. I did not know [in advance]
he was to be seated in the mayor's box. It was 100 percent appropriate for me to
sit elsewhere."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 11, 2015 Saturday

YOU'VE GOT WHALE! Watch the great beasts right off the shores of NYC

BYLINE: and Haley Goldberg

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 586 words


An hour and a half from Midtown, off Jacob Riis Landing in the Rockaways, is a
modern-day Ahab.

"Rockaways is the new Cape Cod for whale watching," says Capt. Tom Paladino,
steely blue eyes scanning the camera-toting crowd boarding his American Princess
cruise ship. "I'll see them before people will see them."

"Them" refers to North Atlantic humpback whales, 52-foot-long sea creatures that
summer just beyond Coney Island.

Six years ago, after Paladino spotted more and more of them on runs between
Manhattan and the Rockaways, he launched his whale- and dolphin-watching
enterprise: four-hour tours that set off three days a week in summer - peak
humpback whale-spotting season.

While whales within subway reach of NYC suggest a scene from "Sharknado,"
onboard naturalist Catherine Granton - a member of the local Gotham Whale
research group - says the big mammals have long ruled these seas.

"If you look at hand-drawn maps of New York Harbor during the 1700s, whales were
all over this area," she says. "It's just that they were hunted to the point of
extinction. Now their numbers are beginning to return."

Thanks to fishery management, reduced boat speeds and climate change, more
humpback whales are making the trek each year from their warm winters off the
Dominican Republic to summer here. Their populations have grown so much that the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has proposed removing them from
its endangered-species list.

As someone raised on Raffi's "Baby Beluga" who'd yet to see any whales outside
of SeaWorld, I had to check it out.

I wasn't alone.

There are 150 others aboard the American Princess this particular day, including
Melissa Gold of Greenpoint, Brooklyn, who dragged her friends with her on the L
and A trains to celebrate her 27th birthday at sea.

"I believe everyone has a spirit animal," she says, clutching her gold whale
earrings, "and mine is the humpback whale."

But this day, her spirit animal is feeling shy.

"A lot of whale-watching is about patience," Capt. Paladino assures the antsy
crowd as an hour elapses with nary a fin in sight. "Look for splashes."

We look. Then some of us hit the bar for $5 beers.

Meanwhile, Gold turns green and pops ginger candies into her mouth to fight
motion sickness. Others begin to nod off.

And then, nearly four hours into our cruise and on the open waters of the
Atlantic, we see one.

"Eleven o'clock!" Paladino shouts over the loudspeaker.

We all sprint to the port side to see the whale's fin and tail flick through the
water.

"That's a humpback whale!" confirms Granton, our (relieved-sounding) naturalist.

For 20 minutes, we snap away as the creature dives up and down. Not the perfect
Instagram moment as advertised on the tour's Facebook page - a breaching
humpback whale perfectly aligned with the Empire State Building - but still
worthy of a 'gram.

I Uber back to the city feeling wide-eyed and rejuvenated - but not quite ready
to deal with the motion of the subway. True, I haven't gotten up close and
personal with a breaching "Baby Beluga."

But four hours in the ocean air scanning the Atlantic instead of my Twitter feed
seems like a whale of a good time to me.

Whale & Dolphin Watching Adventure Cruises are $45 for adults, $40 for seniors,
$30 for children (kids under 5 admitted free). The boat boards at 11 a.m. and
returns at approximately 4 p.m. every Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at Riis
Landing, Rockaway; 718-474-0555, americanprincesscruises.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Capt. Tom Paladino.-The American Princess gets passengers close to
where whales like the one above are. [Artie Raslich/Getty Images; Angel
Chevrestt (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday

GOPers face off in NH

BYLINE: Joe Tacopino

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 161 words


Most of the Republican Party's presidential field squared off in a New Hampshire
candidate forum Monday night for a preview of the 2016 primary season's first
debate.

The candidates aimed their criticism at Democrats and tackled topics such as
abortion and climate change during the two-hour forum.

Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum both
took tough stances on illegal immigration during the forum.

Sens. Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz and Rand Paul all appeared via satellite from
Washington, where they had voted on a GOP-backed bill to strip funding from
Planned Parenthood.

Also appearing were Ohio Gov. John Kasich, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and
former Hewlett-Packard executive Carly Fiorina, a fierce critic of the
Democratic favorite, Hillary Rodham Clinton.

GOP front-runner Donald Trump boycotted the event because it was sponsored by
the New Hampshire Union-Leader, which attacked him in an editorial.

with AP

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rick Perry Hard line on immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 13, 2015 Thursday

'Bum' Photos Don't Lie - But Is Blas To Blame?

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 351 words


The Issue: The rising homeless population in New York and its effect on the
quality of life in the city.

In a city filled with a multitude of millionaires and billionaires, one would
think there would be plenty of money available to help the homeless on the
streets ("Cops' New Focus on Bums," Aug. 10).

Instead, the country sees people buying apartments worth more than $20 million
in New York City, which is seen as an average day for many working in real
estate.

We see the police condemn those people with no place to live by taking their
picture. Would it really be that much of a sacrifice for the city to build more
homeless shelters to help people get back on their feet?

Is it really asking too much for the elitists to spend a small portion of their
wealth to help their fellow human beings?

Brenda Henry

Jacksonville, Fla.

With the rise of the mentally ill and homeless wandering our streets, New
Yorkers are definitely experiencing a real "climate" change in the city.

We have no one to blame but ourselves for this feckless administration. We can
only hope that Mayor de Blasio will soon start actually governing New York City.

Cecilia McNally

Bronx

It's mean-spirited for union boss Ed Mullins to instruct NYPD sergeants and
their friends and family members to take photos of the city's homeless and
disingenuous for him to suggest that the situation is the result of de Blasio's
19 months in office.

For Mullins to use those who've fallen furthest through the tattered shreds of
our social safety net to try to make a cheap political point is shameful.

John Woodmaska

Kearny, NJ

Every month it's something new with the de Blasio administration. He has denied
an increase in the homeless population, which is following a general sense of
lawlessness all over the city.

It's not a surprise polls show New Yorkers feel a general decrease in
quality-of-life under his leadership and that his approval rating is low.

I find myself muttering, "De Blasio's gotta go! De Blasio's gotta go!" more and
more often with each passing day. Jack Chen

Flushing

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayor Bill de Blasio.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday

Hair to the throne

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 741 words


If you're having trouble understanding the phenomenal rise of Donald Trump, buck
up - you're not alone. Even political pros are dumbfounded.

They were shocked when the reality-TV star and businessman first grabbed the
lead in national GOP polls. Now they're double shocked as he soars in primary
states, grabbing a 24-point lead in New Hampshire and a 15-point lead in South
Carolina.

In one survey, Trump more than doubled his favorability ratings among
Republicans in a single month, from 20 percent to 52 percent. The Hill newspaper
called the turnaround "political magic" and the poll's director, Patrick Murray
of Monmouth University, called it ­"astounding."

"That defies any rule in presidential politics that I've ever seen," Murray told
The Hill.

Other pollsters made similar comments, but a closer looks shows an explanation.
I call it the Pendulum Factor.

It reflects the fact that the legacy of each president includes the political
climate he leaves behind. In plain English, Barack Obama's most ­important
failures as a leader begat Donald Trump's success.

A favorable legacy among voters generally means the public wants more of the
same in the next president. The clearest example is that Vice President George
H.W. Bush succeeded Ronald Reagan in 1988, an election widely regarded as
Reagan's third term.

On the other hand, George W. Bush narrowly defeated Vice President Al Gore in
2000, a disputed election that was nonetheless seen as a repudiation of the
scandal-scarred Bill Clinton era.

The pendulum swung back again when Obama followed Bush, who left office with
wars in Iraq and ­Afghanistan unsettled and the economy cratering and jobs
vanishing.

With Obama's poll numbers ­underwater, the country wants change again. And Trump
is the ultimate Un-Obama candidate, especially in style and attitude.

A telling example of the chasm between them involves the speech Obama gave in
Berlin in July 2008. Still a senator, he called himself "a fellow citizen of the
world."

The crowd of 200,000 gathered near the Brandenburg Gate correctly sensed a
turning point in America's relationship with the world, and roared its approval.

Seven years later, the citizen of the world has made a mess of things. From the
rise of Islamic State to the horrific slaughters in Syria and the immigration
chaos at home, along with the unchecked aggression of China, Russia and now
Iran, Obama's appeasement and blame-America approach are having disastrous
consequences.

All the Western democracies are rattled, and their politics are scrambled by
nervous and unhappy publics. The United States is not immune, but the unique
culture of American exceptionalism, which Obama never embraced, is alive and
well in many hearts. If there is anything most Americans hate more than war, it
is seeing the country ­behaving like a weakling and being pushed around.

Trump is scoring as the perceived antidote. You cannot imagine him going to
Germany and proclaiming himself a "citizen of the world." The slogan on his hat
says, "Make America Great Again," and he summarized his message as, "We're not
gonna take it anymore!" Subtle he's not.

Pat Buchanan, a former GOP presidential candidate, says Trump represents a "new
nationalism."

In truth, Trump's ideas are as old as the country. He vows that America will not
be cowed with him in the White House - and many people obviously believe him.

He talks of building a wall on the southern border and forcing Mexico to pay for
it. He talks about deporting illegal immigrants and stopping the waves of
"anchor babies."

He promises to get tough with China, to push back against Putin's aggression,
and to squeeze Iran - and everywhere to negotiate better deals than Obama. Trump
would put America first and his bombastic personality helps persuade people he
means it.

Just as you can't imagine Trump echoing Obama's soft internationalism, you can't
imagine Obama echoing Trump's muscular nationalism.

That's not to deny their similarities. Both have thin skins and zero patience
for dissent. Obama tries to govern through executive orders and it's easy to
envision a President Trump doing the same. A supporter calls Trump the "Obama
for the right."

If so, the cover of a German magazine that greeted Obama in 2008 also fits
Trump. Stern magazine featured Obama's picture with the words: "Savior - or
demagogue?"

The pendulum doesn't stop in the middle.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Donald Trump in profile with American flag dyed hair.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

He Still Won't Listen

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 372 words


Now we know why Mayor de Blasio - well into his second year in office - still
won't do any town-hall meetings: He can't take the heat, so he stays out of the
kitchen - and in his bubble.

With no advance warning, the mayor on Monday held an impromptu Twitter chat for
his 234,000 followers - many of whom made clear they're not huge fans.

In 40 minutes, de Blasio answered only about 10 questions on such substantive
issues as his height (6-foot-6), his favorite boardwalk food (funnel cakes) and
his favorite poet (First Lady Chirlane McCray).

Yes, he addressed a few serious issues. Asked what he'd done to fix the schools,
the mayor replied: "Moved away from over-reliance on high-stakes testing and
ended the misleading grading of schools."

But he focused mainly on answering softball questions - while ignoring pointed
queries such as: "You can't seriously think that a few unruly topless performers
in Times Square is a pressing issue, right?"

Or: "How does a cavalcade of SUVs from the UES to the Park Slope Y fit into the
city's climate change and resiliency plans?"

So much for the mayor who ran as a populist promising to reach out to
"forgotten" New Yorkers.

What we have here is a Park Slope progressive who refuses to recognize the
legitimacy of New Yorkers who see things differently.

Hence his remarkable isolation - and the rising resentment in minority
neighborhoods at City Hall's neglect.

It was only three months ago - 521 days into his term - that de Blasio finally
agreed to take public calls on a radio show, something Mayors David Dinkins,
Rudy Giuliani and Mike Bloomberg did weekly.

And still no town halls, though every mayor since Ed Koch has held them
regularly. Even City Comptroller Scott Stringer and Public Advocate Letitia
James hold such forums with constituents.

Back in May, we urged de Blasio to "talk and listen to your constituents on a
regular, publicly announced basis. You might actually learn what's really on
their minds."

In the three months since, he's stumbled from one humiliation to another. Maybe
if he finally left Fortress de Blasio and started talking to New Yorkers -
including those who disagree with him - he'd actually get out in front of a
crisis.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 19, 2015 Saturday

A White House Gaffe

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 245 words


Was Team Obama being rude or incompetent when it invited a collection of
Catholic dissenters and other opponents of church teaching to the White House
welcome for Pope Francis?

Perhaps the president's staff just bought the media myth that this pope has
turned his back on two millennia of Catholic doctrine.

In fact - despite his raising of issues like climate change and economic
inequality - the pope still affirms traditional teaching on issues like abortion
and same-sex marriage.

That's why, as The Wall Street Journal reports, the Vatican is upset by some on
the guest list, including gay and transgender activists and an activist nun
whose group is silent on key social issues: The curia fears the event will seem
like a papal endorsement.

Plus, more traditional Catholic activists - particularly those in the pro-life
movement - say they haven't been invited to next week's event.

We doubt the president meant to insult Francis; Obama's too good a politician.
And the White House is hoping to exploit the first pope in recent memory who
embraces key parts of Obama's progressive agenda.

Which brings us to ignorance: Team Obama invited the Catholics and other
religious leaders it knows - like the ones who endorsed the ObamaCare law
despite its assaults on religious liberty.

Francis, no doubt, will graciously greet all he meets. But Obama may pay a price
if the guest list reminds folks of how often he remains in conflict with the
church.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday

Schools hope for a papal blessing

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 641 words


It is a sign of our hyper-polarized times that, even before Pope Francis lands
in America, his visit is stirring controversy and conflict. The chance that he
will repeat his attacks on capitalism and denounce fossil fuels in a speech to
Congress threatens to make his trip divisive.

One member of the House, a Republican Catholic, even says he will boycott the
speech if it's going to focus on climate change. Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona
wrote in an op-ed that if Francis is going to "act and talk like a leftist
politician, then he can expect to be treated like one."

Yet there is at least one stop on the pontiff's itinerary that should be
unifying to all Americans. It is to Our Lady Queen of Angels, a Catholic
elementary and middle school in East Harlem, the only school on the pope's US
schedule.

Plans for Friday's visit call for him to be greeted by 250 children outside the
East 112th Street building and to meet 24 fourth-grade students and their
principals inside. They include six students from each of the four local
archdiocese schools who have been working on gifts and projects to show the
pope.

The audience also will include an unusual group of adults, some of whom won't be
Catholic. They are deep-pocketed donors who make a Catholic-school education
possible for many poor city children.

And those inner-city schools often work miracles. Nine out of 10 students are
nonwhite, and 53 percent live with a single parent. Most households are below
the official poverty line, yet almost all the students graduate from high school
and go to college. The donors are a key link.

"From our point of view, the big picture is Catholic and non-Catholic business
leaders supporting these schools," said Susan George, executive director of the
Inner-City Scholarship Fund. "The fact that these very busy people are donating
time and money to Catholic schools, regardless of their personal faith, speaks
volumes about the first-rate education the students are receiving."

The scholarship fund has just closed the books on a remarkable year, raising a
record $22 million in contributions, George said. Hundreds of donors support one
or two students each by paying as much as 75 percent of their tuition, which
averages about $4,500 a year. There are 78 schools in the inner-city network,
with about 7,000 of the 29,000 students getting financial aid.

But because all families must pay something, empty seats are a perennial threat.
A recent round of painful closings of archdiocese schools made a dent, but the
rise of excellent charter schools in poor neighborhoods is proving to be stiff
competition. The charters are free of charge because they are public, while even
a reduced tuition at Catholic schools can be too big a burden for low-income
families.

George, then, is hoping for two outcomes from the pope's visit to Our Lady Queen
of Angels: that it will spur more parents to send their kids to Catholic
schools, and more donors to step up. She'd like to give financial aid to another
4,000 students, saying that would put the system in the "sweet spot" where
attrition would be low and the schools would be stable.

It is not my usual habit to recommend specific charities, but the Inner-City
Scholarship Fund is an exception. It is beyond worthy and a win-win for both the
students and New York.

Many of the students who get financial aid eventually enroll in the City
University colleges but, unlike so many public-school students, they don't need
remedial help.

Their demanding high-school teachers get them ready for college, making
Catholic-school grads a bargain for taxpayers and putting them in line for
good-paying jobs and careers of the kind that hold the city together.

As Susan George puts it, "Our students become the productive middle class of New
York City."

You can't say no to that.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: can't wait! Students (back, from left) Maziya Clemente, Noah Rodriguez,
Allison Reyes-Rodriguez, Nicholas Marronaro, (front) Emely Rodriguez, Benjamin
Grassia, Essa Nahshal and Farida Mintoumba will meet the pope.Brigitte Stelzer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 21, 2015 Monday

I have faith in this pope

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 684 words


He's been called a rock star, a man of the people and an awesome dude. But Pope
Francis just likes being called a regular guy.

"To depict the pope as a sort of superman, a sort of star, seems offensive to
me,'' he told an Italian newspaper last year. "The pope is a man who laughs,
cries, sleeps tranquilly and has friends like everyone else, a normal person.''

He said on an Argentinian radio show last week: "I have felt used by people who
presented themselves as my friends and whom I hadn't seen more than once or
twice in my life. They have used that to their own benefit. But it's an
experience we all go through.''

Laughing? Crying? Tranquil sleep? False friends?

The pope isn't so different from you and me. (Except, for an insomniac like me,
the sleeping part.)

The 78-year-old Roman Catholic leader traveled on Saturday to Havana, where he
quickly called on the Communist nation to "open itself to the world," while
lauding its restoration of diplomatic ties with the United States.

He is set to land on Tuesday in Washington, DC, where he's to become the first
pope ever to address a joint session of Congress. Then he's to travel to New
York City and Philadelphia. As he prepares to celebrate Mass on Friday at
Madison Square Garden, it's time to reflect on what this humble, nonjudgmental,
unpretentious man means to me, a Jew.

He gives me faith.

No, I'm not converting to Catholicism. But I appreciate the manner in which this
leader of a religion that claims more than 1.2 billion followers reaches out to
people with his common touch. He lives simply in a guest house in the Vatican,
rejecting the Apostolic Palace, and likes to tool around in a 1984 Renault.

In these days of worldwide terrorism and moral relativism, Pope Francis has
drawn a spiritual road map.

Catholics have long suffered from papal fatigue, battered by priest sex scandals
and a religious leadership that for too long looked the other way. The faithful
have been traumatized by the Hitler Youth past of the previous pontiff, Pope
Benedict XVI.

Catholic leaders have lost followers as they've rejected homosexuality, abhorred
the use of contraception and condemned women who had abortions. These things
haven't changed, exactly.

But with five words, Pope Francis turned around the perception of a church that
was out of touch.

"Who am I to judge?"

"If someone is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to
judge?" Francis told reporters in 2013.

He extended a compassionate hand to priests who harbor sexual orientations
contrary to Catholic dogma. "Who am I to judge?'' The words led the
Argentinian-born former nightclub bouncer to be named Time's 2013 Person of the
Year, and to receive the same honor from The Advocate, a gay-themed magazine.

He must have loved that.

Just as extraordinarily, the pope declared this month that priests may absolve
women who have had abortions if they seek forgiveness in the coming Holy Year of
Mercy. "I am well aware of the pressure that has led [women] to this decision,"
he wrote. "I know that it is an existential and moral ordeal."

This is huge.

I only wish the pope would steer clear of leftist politics. In a breathtakingly
anti-capitalist encyclical in June, he blasted the "myth of progress'' that
brought the world air conditioning, electric lights, shopping malls - and, he
insisted, climate change. He failed to mention that the progress he blamed for
global warming has greatly helped the plight of the poor.

The pope is at his greatest when he gives hands-on help to the weakest among us.
He announced this month that two families of refugees were to be given shelter
in the Vatican, and he called on parishes, convents and monasteries to do the
same. (Compare that with Republican presidential contender Mike Huckabee, who
wondered aloud of Syrian refugees, "Are they really escaping tyranny, are they
escaping poverty, or are they really just coming because we've got cable TV?")

I am thrilled that the pope is to grace this country and this city with his
presence. May future popes follow his lead.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pope Francis kissing someone's foot. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday

Francis' Missing Guests

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 292 words


Pope Francis lands in the United States today for a whirlwind tour that brings
him to the Big Apple Thursday evening. Hundreds of thousands - Catholic and
otherwise - will welcome His Holiness.

Alas, this weekend's visit to Cuba gives more than a few pause.

Francis never met with dissidents of the Castro regime - including those invited
by the Vatican to meet the pope in a closed-door meeting. Nor did he explicitly
denounce Cuba's human-rights abuses.

Pope Francis was a key conduit between the Castros and the Obama administration
in launching the current US-Cuban thaw. That gave him cards he could've played.

It's not surprising that the Castro regime would move to block the few brave
activists invited to attend Mass and meet with the pope. Yet Francis and his
entourage could - and should - have insisted.

Send a personal escort from the papal entourage - and dare the secret police to
interfere. Refuse to start until the pontiff's guests were seated.

The Castros needed a papal visit in the "Plaza de la Revolución" far more than
Francis did.

It's sad to see Francis seeming to acquiesce in the Castros' repression - even
as his work to make the church more open and less judgmental has struck a chord
with many on the left.

Perhaps the pope is distracted by other concerns - such as the promise of
uniting with President Obama on the US leg of his trip on issues like climate
change and inequality.

On the other hand, he may plan some surprise for his Thursday morning address
before Congress. After all, no pope fits neatly in the boxes of American
political thinking.

It would be good, at least, if Pope Francis makes it clear that evil takes many
forms in the world - and money-worship is hardly its only face.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Pope Francis in America 'A breath of fresh air' Pope thrills the flock on his
first day in the Apple

BYLINE: Lorena Mongelli , Reuven Fenton and Dana Sauchelli

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 486 words


"I'm blessed," one worshipper gushed after seeing Pope Francis Thursday -
echoing a sentiment that reverberated across the city as thousands thronged the
streets to catch a glimpse of the pontiff on his first visit to the Big Apple.

"I was speechless. I got goosebumps," said Illuminada Gubatan, who got tickets
to hear the pope lead a prayer at St. Patrick's Cathedral. "Yesterday was my
birthday. This is the best present."

Like many others, Gubatan was struck by Francis' down-to-earth approach and the
way he connects with common people.

"He's humble," Gubatan said. "He's one of us . . . I'm blessed."

Francis arrived at JFK Airport Thursday evening, where fans were eagerly waiting
his airplane.

"It's an honor to be here," Eric Stoetzer, 84, said at the airport, calling
Francis the best pope he's ever seen.

Connie Angiolillo, 93, a resident of the Ozanam Hall Senior Center in Queens,
sat in a wheelchair and savored the opportunity to see the pope in person.

"Next time I see him it will be in heaven," she said. "I'm 93! He's love. He's
Christ on earth."

Seeing the pontiff at St. Patrick's was a once-in-a-lifetime honor for those of
the faith, said Carina Scecchitano, who came down from Poughkeepsie.

"I feel very blessed to be here," said Scecchitano, 26. "He is the Holy Father.
For Catholics that believe in the faith and know that the Holy Father is
representative of Christ on earth, it's just very exciting to be in his
presence."

On side streets all along the pope's Fifth Avenue route to St. Patrick's, the
devoted scooped up T-shirts and buttons bearing his image as mementos of being
so near to him.

Sister Joan Magnetti, who teaches at a Sacred Heart school in Bridgeport, Conn.,
said she was "enthralled" to be in the presence of pope at St. Patrick's.

She called him "one person who can make such an incredible difference in the
whole world."

"I think he's just come at the right time. He's on the right agenda," Magnetti
said. "The world agenda, about climate change, about equal opportunity for
everybody, his statement on acceptance on homosexuality. He brings a breath of
fresh air."

Sister Mary, of the Monastery of the Precious Blood in Brooklyn, was overjoyed
by the pope's message to women of the church.

"He is showing love, tenderness and joy," she said. "He said thank you for the
hard work women are doing. He's trying to build up the women.

"We were in St. Patrick's Cathedral - he turned and looked at us and smiled at
us. We screamed, 'Viva el Papa!' He was so happy."

Francis received rave reviews from some in the city's homeless community.

A vagrant on Fifth Avenue at 41st Street said he was going to Central Park
Friday to try to meet the pontiff.

"My wife and daughter died in a five-car pileup on the George Washington Bridge
five years ago," he said. "I have never been happier since then than I am to see
the pope tomorrow."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

China: We'll clear the air with Bam

BYLINE: Geoff Earle

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 369 words


WASHINGTON - Chinese President Xi Jinping arrived in Washington Thursday to meet
with President Obama and announce a cap-and-trade system to deal with the Asian
nation's staggering pollution problem.

China will announce plans Friday to launch a national system to limit greenhouse
gases and force industries to purchase pollution credits, according to US
officials.

Beijing plans to put cap-and-trade into place in 2017 as part of measures aimed
to address climate change in ­cooperation with the United States and other
nations.

A statement to be released following Friday's summit between Obama and Xi aims
to flesh out how their two countries plan to achieve targets, set at a bilateral
summit in Beijing last year, for cutting emissions.

Meanwhile, Obama is expected to discuss other issues such as Chinese computer
hacking, brazen maritime expansion and human-rights abuses during the talks.

The US-China relationship has had its ups and downs for decades, even as the two
nations have become increasingly connected as global ­economic powers.

In a reflection of the importance of the relationship, despite the fury in
Washington at some of China's actions there will be plenty of pomp to mark the
meeting - with an elaborate 21-gun salute at the White House Friday and a formal
state dinner.

A particularly charged topic will be the hacking - which Washington attributes
to China - of 21.5 million rec­ords of federal employees, former workers and job
seekers.

"It's a matter of whether our businesses can have the confidence that they can
operate in China or operate globally without being subjected to
­cyber-intrusions that seek to steal their intellectual property," said
national-security adviser Ben Rhodes.

The United States also wants to discuss China's audacious actions in the South
China Sea, where Beijing has been building artificial islands in disputed areas,
raising tensions with its neighbors and US naval operations.

White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest mentioned those incursions, along with
recent volatility in China's economy, as issues that will come up, along with
China's "reluctance to effectively tie their currency to market rates."

geoff.earle@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 28, 2015 Monday

THE EYES HAVE IT Banks hike Big Brother tactics on their workers

BYLINE: Kevin Dugan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 593 words


Wall Street banks are amping up their Big Brother powers - hiring high-tech
surveillance firms that can track nearly every move their employees make, from
social media to the dark Web and even irregular ATM activity on their bank
accounts, The Post has learned.

The moves by the banks - to protect themselves from stiff fines and to finger
potential law-breakers on the payroll - come as the Department of Justice said
this month that it would seek to nail individuals during probes and that banks
would be expected to cooperate if they wanted leniency in settlements, sources
said.

The privacy-fiddling tactics may raise eyebrows among some critics, but it could
be this brave new world will become the norm in financial circles.

"It is critical that we balance freedom and flexibility with visibility and
governance," said Prakash Nanduri, chief executive and co-founder of Paxata, a
Redwood City, Calif., company whose software draws on data from social media and
the dark parts of the Internet. Paxata has seen a recent uptick in demand from
banks, Nanduri said.

Until now, regulators have relied mostly on weapons like subpoenas of Bloomberg
chats and company e-mails. And, to be sure, they have worked, helping uncover
wrongdoing and leading to more than $74 billion in fines.

But the feds have come under fire - from Congress and others - for not nailing
enough individuals responsible for the crimes. That led to last week's memo from
Sally Q. Yates, an assistant attorney general in Washington, DC.

"Companies cannot pick and choose which facts to disclose," Yates wrote in the
memo, adding that if companies don't hand over their employees, including senior
execs, investigators will throw the book at the firms.

That change in climate is occurring as banks, looking to get the upper hand over
unscrupulous employees, turn to firms like Paxata and Red Owl Analytics and
Palantir, as well as a slew of investigators and law firms who license their
proprietary software.

Using these programs, banks are able to monitor in real time their employees'
social media, how often they send e-mails on personal accounts, withdraw money
from ATMs, their comings and goings at work, when they plan private
conversations and what they do on the shadowy "deep Web," where Internet
activity isn't logged like it is on Google.

"[Banks] are held to a higher standard about how to police their own people,"
Brian White, chief operating officer at Red Owl, told The Post.

In fact, banks are mimicking their overseers. The Securities and Exchange
Commission struck a deal with Palantir last year to sift through huge amounts of
data to find unseemly activity.

Palantir, which was founded by Peter Thiel of PayPal fame, didn't return a
request for comment.

"With the ability to monitor employee behavior in real time for anomalies that
might indicate risk due to misconduct, companies can be proactive in their fraud
investigations and hopefully prevent illegal activity from occurring, or at
least prevent its spread," said Julian Moore, a senior managing partner at K2
Intelligence who had led the federal prosecution of Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff.

ALL-SEEING STREET

After federal authorities said they would look to nail employees-and not just
companies-when probing Wall Street crimes, banks have turned to third-party tech
investigators.

Here's what they can track:

Social media activity

n E-mails on personal accounts

n Unusual activity from ATMs

n Entrances and exits from work

n Usage of the shadowy "dark Web"

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On the street. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 16, 2015 Monday

Terror in Paris Hollande is making a weasel of O

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 465 words


It's beyond surreal that the president of France is making the American
president look like a cheese-eating amateur.

The terror attacks in Paris Friday took scores of lives and thrust the entire
civilized world into paroxysms of grief and despair. Then something unexpected
happened.

French President Francois Hollande stepped up to the soccer goal. And he
displayed the kind of leadership one normally does not associate with the randy
politician presiding over the land of vintage Champagne and brie.

No sooner had ISIS claimed responsibility for the butchery than Hollande got in
front of TV cameras and told the traumatized public that the savagery was an
"act of war.'' He vowed to pound ISIS into submission.

Compare that to the American president's initial reaction. President Obama, who
once ridiculed ISIS (or "ISIL," as he calls it) by comparing it to a
junior-varsity team, was loathe to point fingers. "I don't want to speculate at
this point in terms of who was responsible for this," he said.

On Friday morning, just hours before Paris turned into ground zero, Obama
declared on ABC's "Good Morning America" that ISIS (ISIL, whatever) was not
gaining ground and that the US military "has contained" it. The statement should
become his epitaph.

Speaking in Turkey Sunday, he said the United States stood "in solidarity" with
France - against "Daesh," a derogatory Arabic term for ISIS-ISIL.

Where was his anger?

Obama flat out refuses to call the murderers what they are: Islamic militants.
And he's not alone.

I watched, incredulously, as all three contenders in Saturday night's Democratic
debate - Hillary Rodham Clinton, Bernie Sanders and Martin O'Malley - refused to
say the slaughter was the work of "Muslim" extremists.

Clinton blamed "jihadis." But despite prodding, she would not speak of the
Islamic elephant in the room.

Sanders stood by his earlier claim that climate change, not creatures in suicide
vests, presents the biggest threat to this planet because it makes poor people
into terrorists by interfering with their crops or something.

At that point, I switched to the Syfy channel to get a bigger dose of reality.

In New York City, Arab activist and Mayor de Blasio crony Linda Sarsour waged a
Twitter war as the carnage unfolded. The head of the Arab American Association
of New York, which exists partly due to taxpayer largesse, spat out a tweet that
one Post reader told me made him "physically ill.''

"Just because people focus on the horror of the moment, doesn't mean we forget
the oppression, terrorism, murder happening elsewhere,'' she wrote - an apparent
slap at Israel.

Now is a time for mourning and payback, not denial or hatred of the blameless.
It's time to call the enemy by name.

andrea.peyser@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 6, 2015 Sunday

Islamic terrorism? For Bam, it's only 'possible'

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words


During his tenure, President Obama occasionally has been inspiring, sometimes
perplexing and, more often, infuriating. His recent appearances provoke another
reaction. He looks and sounds pathetic, a shrunken figure detached from reality.

Always half-hearted about the war on terror, the president's stubborn refusal to
call the atrocity in Paris "Islamic terrorism" has put him out of step with
events. In listless, vapid remarks, he called the death of 130 innocent victims
a "setback," and salted the wound by insisting that climate change is a greater
threat.

And now, with the slaughter in San Bernardino showing Islamic State tentacles
reaching America, the president's continuing unwillingness to admit the truth
puts him even further outside the mainstream of American society and law
enforcement.

By closing his mind to facts, Obama is making himself a ­denier.

America is at war and the Commander-in-Chief isn't even trying to lead from
behind anymore. He's gone AWOL at the worst possible time.

His consistent failure to acknowledge the roots of Islam in the jihadist death
cult always was ­peculiar. He insisted that the religion not be defined by those
who hijacked it, but with the barbarism of Islamic State and the growing number
of lethal attacks, his intransigence is downright weird. What's the harm of
admitting a truth the whole world sees?

Obama's attempts to obscure the connection to Islam in Wednesday's massacre is
leaving a leadership vacuum and fanning America's fears.

Soon after the California shootings, but before the facts were known about
casualties, the president saddled up his favorite hobby horse.

Admitting that "we don't know that much yet," he still knew the solution - gun
control. "The one thing we do know is that we have a pattern of mass shootings
that have no parallel anywhere in the world," he told CBS Wednesday afternoon.

As the facts emerged through the evening and overnight, common sense pointed
toward terrorism. The killers were dead, their cache of weapons and ammo, along
with 12 explosive devices, made it clear this was not a spontaneous act or a
case of a mentally ill loner. The pattern led the FBI agent in charge to say
that terrorism could not be ruled out.

Soon, the identification of the killers as Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife,
Tashfeen Malik, led some of Obama's fellow travelers to abandon him. A
California chapter of CAIR, the hard-line Council on American-Islamic Relations,
held a news conference where officials condemned the murders and expressed
sympathy for victims' families.

Their quick action was a tacit confirmation that terrorism was a reasonable
explanation for the slaughter of unarmed innocents by Muslims. Otherwise, why
speak out so early or at all? No other religious group felt the need to come
forward. Although there were odd elements, including that Farook worked with
those he killed, the carnage looked similar to what had happened in Paris and
fit Islamic State's call for individual radicals to kill fellow Americans.

Yet Obama remained a determined outlier. It would be Thursday afternoon, nearly
24 hours ­after the shooting, before Obama spoke again. He budged slightly, but
still tried to obscure the ­issues.

The subdued president called the shooting a "tragedy," expressed condolences to
the families and gave extensive praise to "the coordination of law ­enforcement"
before getting to the substance.

"We do not know why they did it, we do not know their motivations," he claimed.
"It is possible that this is terrorist-related, but we don't know. It's also
possible this was workplace-related."

He said investigators needed to understand the "workplace relationship between
the individual and his superiors." From there, he jumped back to gun control,
­insisting we "need to search ­ourselves as a society."

He then went silent until his Saturday radio address, where he delivered the
understatement of the year: "It is entirely possible that these two attackers
were radicalized to commit this act of terror."

Equally troubling, Attorney General Loretta Lynch told a Muslim advocacy dinner
that "my greatest fear" is that anti-Islam "rhetoric will be accompanied by acts
of violence." She threatened prosecution and said the First Amendment does not
protect "actions predicated on ­violent talk."

That was a warning to Donald Trump and other GOP candidates, as well as ordinary
Americans, that speaking the truth could land them in jail. Apparently the zeal
for denial is boundless.

We are witnessing a mistake of historic proportions. The idea that the link
between Islam and terrorism cannot be admitted is absurd, and it is backfiring.
The refusal to concede the obvious is leading to greater suspicion about Islam.
Denial is tainting all Muslims in ways the facts never could.

Americans, including Muslims, deserve the truth, Mr. President. They can handle
it. Why can't you?

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama: hear no evil. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 11, 2015 Friday

Waiting games Winter Meetings didn't resolve every hot-stove story

BYLINE: Joel Sherman

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 79

LENGTH: 789 words


NASHVILLE, Tenn. - Aroldis Chapman was traded - and then he wasn't. Jose
Fernandez was kind of available. The biggest deal of the Winter Meetings was
made larger because it included a guy who has barely played professionally,
Dansby Swanson.

The meetings had the familiar touches - wheeling, dealing and a conclusion that
despite all that went on plenty of huge questions were left unanswered. Such as:

1) What will actually happen with Fernandez?

Marlins president of baseball operations Mike Hill changed his response from
Fernandez "is not available" during the meetings to "if someone calls we have to
listen" on the way out the door.

Totally understandable. If the Diamondbacks were willing to give up Swanson, the
top pick in last June's draft, plus a good two-way player, Ender Inciarte, and a
well-regarded pitching prospect, Aaron Blair, for Shelby Miller, a No. 2 or 3
starter, what could Miami receive for an ace? Arizona had talked to the Marlins
about Swanson and Patrick Corbin.

It would be difficult for any team to assemble a package good enough to convince
the Marlins to trade their No. 1 starter - when Miami is trying to win in 2016 -
without damaging the acquiring club's chances of winning now and in the future.

"You never say never," Hill said. "You don't know if you will hear anything that
will just knock your socks off. But as we leave here, we plan to give the ball
on Opening Day to Jose Fernandez."

As you think about teams that could change Miami's mind

2) What do the Dodgers do next?

They tried to obtain Chapman believing, according to a person familiar with the
Dodgers' thinking, the lefty did not care about save totals and would have been
happy to, say, go after Paul Goldschmidt in the seventh and then pitch the
eighth and hand the ball off to Kenley Jansen in the ninth. Los Angeles saw an
interchangeable two-armed force at the end of the game.

But gun and domestic abuse allegations scuttled those plans. Chapman still may
be dealt. The Dodgers may be the team that goes after him again. In this
climate, though, with - among other things - a recent mass shooting so near to
Los Angeles in San Bernardino, Calif., the Dodgers did not feel they could go
forward now.

So the Dodgers finished as the runners-up to Zack Greinke when those suddenly
going-for-it Diamondbacks outbid them. Then the Chapman deal collapsed. So they
have yet to solve the front of their rotation (who to team with Clayton Kershaw)
and their back-of-the-game plans went awry.

They are deep in prospects. You sense they would not include Corey Seager for
Fernandez. But Julio Urias? Los Angeles might be able to put together four- or
five-player scenarios that at least would make the Marlins think hard. And if
not Fernandez, the Dodgers will keep acting to try to fix the 2016 club.

Because the team with the majors' largest payroll must try to go for it.
Fortunately for them, they do not have to answer

3) What is going on in the outfield/bat market?

Ben Zobrist signed at the meetings, but no other big position player has come
off the board.

That the historic and division-rival Cardinals and Cubs have eyes on Jason
Heyward should elevate his market as so many in the sport wait to see if a
player without a power profile would really get a 10-year contract in excess of
$200 million. The Angels were in on all the big outfielders. The Giants want a
significant left fielder. The Royals have not completely given up on Alex
Gordon. The Orioles are trying to retain Chris Davis.

And the industry was still playing the game in mid-December that it was playing
in early November: Where the heck do Yoenis Cespedes and Justin Upton land, and
for how much? You can add Daniel Murphy to that previous sentence.

As for other long-running questions, there is also

4) Who is paying Johnny Cueto and how much?

Cueto rejected a Diamondbacks overture of six years in excess of $120 million.
Arizona pivoted to Greinke and Miller. So now, is there a landing spot for that
much or more for Cueto?

His overall numbers the past five seasons, including a 2.71 ERA, are as good as
any pitcher not named Kershaw. But there was enough worry about his elbow and
inconsistency after he became a Royal in July to chill his value.

He also is hurt by a deep starter market. Some clubs such as the Red Sox (David
Price), Cubs (John Lackey) and Diamondbacks (Greinke, Miller) already have
satisfied their needs. And interesting starters who will cost less, such as Mike
Leake, Japanese right-hander Kenta Maeda, Scott Kazmir and Wei-Yin Chen remain
available - not to mention Fernandez and others such as Cleveland's Carlos
Carrasco, who are possible via trades.

joel.sherman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Waiting game: Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez wasn't traded during the
Winter Meetings, but as Joel Sherman writes, if Miami is dazzled by an offer, it
wouldn't be unthinkable that the ace still may be dealt. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

CHEFS AT THE HEAD OF THE TABLE Hungry for gourmet Israeli food? NYC has it
covered

BYLINE: and DAVID KAUFMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 532 words


ISrAELI chefs in New York City are having a moment-and that moment is now.
Across Gotham, young culinary Israeli talents are pairing Levantine heartiness
with global traditions and techniques, developing a signature style and impact.
Here are four Israeli-born foodie stars who call NYC home.

Einat Admony

No chef has done more to elevate Israeli cuisine in New York than Einat Admony,
owner of NoLiTa's Balaboosta and Bar Bolonat in the West Village. For Admony,
whose signature dishes include crispy cauliflower at Balaboosta and poussin at
Bar Bolonat, the increase in local Israeli chefs is welcome. "Until recently I
felt very alone here," says Admony.

"But people are traveling more and seeing Israel beyond the political
situation." 214 Mulberry St.; balaboostanyc.com.

Bar Bolonat: 611 Hudson St.; barbolonatny.com

Uri Scheft

In barely two years, Breads Bakery has evolved from a flour-and-water upstart to
a leading player in Gotham's ultra-competitive bakery scene.

It's easy to see why. Loft-like and light-filled, Breads is nonetheless warm and
homey-a contemporary take on the classic mitteleuropean (and Tel Aviv)
konditoria. For Scheft, who studied baking across Europe and Israel before
opening Breads in Tel Aviv, his bakery pairs yeasty comfort and familiarity with
a dose of the Israeli exotic. "We always knew that we would stick to our own
menu and not try to Americanize it," says Scheft, whose parents are originally
from Denmark. This ethos translates into a menu ranging from Tel Aviv
"streetstyle" staples like sabich (a warm eggplant sandwich) to, perhaps, the
best babka in Gotham. Dense, indulgent and oozing with chocolate, Breads' babka
has clearly become its signature.

"New York magazine voted us the top babka in town," Scheft says. "Once that
happened, everything changed for us." 18 E. 16th St.; breadsbakery.com

Eldad Shem Tov

Few Israeli chefs are more ambitious than Eldad Shem Tov, whose almost
futuristic Jaffa restaurant Shakoof was way ahead of its time. Today, Shem Tov
brings magic to Glasserie in Greenpoint, where he oversees a contemporary Middle
Eastern menu broad enough to accommodate his talents and ingenuity, with
must-tries like yellowfin crudo with watermelon and rose. "I've been surrounded
by this style of eating all my life," he says.

"It's a mix of fresh produce, regional abundance and the importance of social
life around the table." 95 Commercial St, Brooklyn; glasserienyc.com The Shuka
Truck will be serving up its signature street food at the festival.

Nir Mesika

Barely a decade ago, Mesika was in culinary school in Tel Aviv. Now he runs his
own East Village restaurant- Timna on St. Mark's Place. Named after a stark
southern Israel valley, Timna- which features a cozy darkwood and exposed brick
interior- showcases Mesika's mod-Mediterranean sensibility. Stand-out dishes
include the buttery-rich kubaneh (a sort of Yemenite brioche), a lentil and root
vegetable confit, and meaty lamb saddle with fragrant freekeh (left.) "I want to
prove that Israeli food is not just hummus and falafel," Mesika says. "Israel is
a mix of cultures, nations and kitchens." 109 St. Mark's Place; timna.nyc

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Einat Admony.-Uri Scheft. [Anne Wermiel/NY Post]-Eldad Shem Tov.-Nir
Mesika.-Lamb saddle with fragrant freekeh. [Tamara Beckwith/NY Post]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 2, 2015 Monday

Super Bowl XLIX Patriots vs. Seahawks Ads scored (and Bored) Plus, that one
'horrible' killjoy

BYLINE: David K. Li

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 853 words


Madison Avenue ordered up warm and fuzzy for Sunday night's Super Bowl
broadcast.

The modern Mad Men pitched products such as Budweiser, Toyota, McDonald's and
Dove - with expert doses of emotional manipulation - during 30-second spots that
cost $4.5 million a pop.

"There were so many well-crafted campaigns with layers of meaning," said Liz
Dolan, chief marketing officer for Fox international TV and former head of
global marketing for Nike.

Some fans missed their normal dose of sophomoric humor that Super Bowl ads have
delivered.

"It feels like the Super Bowl has grown up," said Megan Hartman, strategy
director of New York ad agency Red Peak. "I think the end verdict from consumers
will be that the ads were pretty boring, but I would rather have touchy-feely
ads that are well executed than the same old cheesy jokes."

Budweiser was a leader of the heart-string hype, using its famous Clydesdales
and an adorable lost puppy to pitch its suds.

"The puppy and Clydesdales - I think that'll absolutely drive sales," said
NSG/SWAT CEO Richard Kirshenbaum.

But not all the spots were so feel-good - especially a creepily dark Nationwide
Insurance ad featuring a "dead" little boy telling parents how their kids could
be killed in preventable accidents.

"Horrible association between my child's safety and their insurance product,"
said Stacey Nelson Smith, CEO of San Diego-based ad agency Civilian. "Morbid and
borderline offensive."

The spot was so despised that the insurer might actually get some small benefit
from it, even as the piece became widely mocked in tweets and sparked
disparaging online memes.

"I'm not a believer in all publicity is good publicity - but if your goal is to
have people know your name, I guess they accomplished that?" Dolan said. "I know
I wouldn't want my brand associated with dead kids."

Celebs, of course, were in play - even the overexposed ones, such as T-Mobile's
Kim Kardashian. She reminded customers they could get a better data plan, which
they could use to look up pictures of - who else? - Kim.

"Her performance was a 10," Kirshenbaum said. "It's very funny, and she mocks
herself."

Mexican avocado producers did a hilarious spoof on the NFL draft.

"The fact is that a lowly agricultural product made a really high-concept, funny
spot that people watched and will remember," Dolan said.

One little-known manufacturer - cellphone-charger maker Mophie - made a huge
splash with a hilariously sacrilegious spot, showing God's smarphone running out
of juice.

"I mean, we're all so attached to our phones that, God forbid, what would happen
if our power goes down?" Smith said.

The NFL even tried rehabilitating its own image with a spot on domestic
violence. The league aired a spot featuring a terrified woman who calls 911
pretending to order out for pizza when she is really conveying to cops that she
fears for her life.

"I thought that was the best ad in the game," said Xanthe Wells, chief creative
officer at The Pitch Agency in Culver City, Calif.

More in Page Six & Sports

---

VICTORIA'S SECRET

[**]

COnTEnT The angels keep their clothes on . . . and play football?

"If you're going to do a football ad with Victoria's Secret models, maybe do a
joke about skins and shirts?" -Liz Dolan

NATIOnWIDE

[*]

COnTEnT Be careful, your child might be killed.

"Horrible association between my child's safety and their insurance product.
Morbid and borderline offensive. That ad could become legend - a legend in that
it could be taught in Advertising 101 of what nOT to do." -Stacey Nelson Smith

Loved it!

COCA-COLA

[***]

CONTeNT Coke makes everyone happy -and solves bullying.

"Coca-Cola leveraging the soul of its brand to bring attention to aprevalent
social issue and end with the warm fuzzies. Solid pull!" -Stacey Nelson Smith

Loved it!

DOVe

[***]

CONTeNT Men talk about the joys of fatherhood.

"I thought that was nicely done. It pulls on the heart strings. You have to be
really funny or sentimental at the Super Bowl." -Xanthe Wells

Loved it!

T- MOBILe

[** 1/2]

CONTeNT Chelsea Handler and Sarah Silverman one-up each other.

"Memorable, but Ithink the Kim Kardashian T- Mobile spot is funnier." -Stacey
Nelson Smith

Loved it!

MeXICAN AVOCADOS

[****]

CONTeNT Mocking the NFL draft.

"They nailed it - funny, simple, memorable." -Stacey Nelson Smith

Hated it!

CARL'S JR.

[*]

CONTeNT Charlotte McKinney entices men to try the All-Natural Burger.

"I expect the worst from Carl's Jr. and I got it. Unfunny visual puns using
melons? Come on, is this still making anyone laugh?" -Liz Dolan

Loved it!

BUDWeISeR

[****]

CONTeNT A lost puppy and Clydesdales pitch beer.

"The puppy and Clydesdales, I think that'll absolutely drive sales." -Richard
Kirshenbaum

---

RATINGS

[****] Touchdown! Hilarious or innovative ads worth every penny

[***] Field goal Admirable efforts with a little more panache than your

[**] Punt Humdrum pitches likely to be recycled for daytime TV

[*] Fumble Perfect opportunity for a bathroom break

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Various Super Bowl tv commercials.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

Caroline Kennedy has own e-mail woe

BYLINE: Geoff Earle , and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 314 words


WASHINGTON - Caroline Kennedy used a personal e-mail account for official
business as US ambassador to Japan, a State Department audit revealed Tuesday.

The agency's inspector general reviewed operations at the embassy between
January and March - just as Hillary Rodham Clinton's use of a private e-mail
server as secretary of state was coming to light - and raised questions about
its own e-mail practices.

Inspector General Steve Linick said his office "confirmed that senior embassy
staff," including Kennedy (inset), "used personal e-mail accounts to send and
receive messages containing official business." Such conduct can lead to "data
loss, hacking, phishing and spoofing of e-mail accounts, as well as inadequate
protections for personally identifiable information," according to the report.

State Department spokesman John Kirby insisted Kennedy did nothing wrong.

"It is not prohibited to use private e-mail. It is discouraged, obviously," he
said. "We recognize there are circumstances where there may be no other choice."

President Obama's nomination of Kennedy, the daughter of John F. Kennedy, to the
prestigious post got a burst of global publicity in 2013 and a warm welcome in
Japan - although the report highlights deficiencies in Kennedy's management of a
$94 million operation with 727 employees.

The report also observed: "The ambassador does not have extensive experience
leading and managing an institution the size of the US Mission to Japan," and
relies on top staffers with unclear roles.

Embassy Chief of Staff Debra DeShong Reed, a former longtime spokeswoman for
Democratic lawmakers and for the Kerry-Edwards 2004 presidential campaign, came
in for particular criticism.

Inspectors "found a misunderstanding on the part of the chief of staff and the
ambassador regarding the responsibilities of an embassy public-affairs
operation."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caroline Kennedy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 111 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

CAN'T STOP THE PAIN Giants have changed training, but hurts just keep on coming

BYLINE: and PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 761 words


PHILADELPHIA - A few days before the Giants faced the Eagles on Monday night,
cornerback Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie was asked if his team's banged-up
secondary concerned him.

"It's not a concern,'' Rodgers Cromartie said, before reversing himself.

"I mean, it is, but it isn't. You can't fix your mind on things like that.
Around here we have this thing called the next-guy up mentality.'' Yeah, we've
heard about it. It seems as if Giants coaches have been repeating the "next-man
up'' mantra so often the past few years it is difficult to keep track of who is
coming and who is going, who is up and who is down.

After leading the NFL in injuries the past two years - as far as number of
players on seasonending injured reserve - the Giants not only hoped for better
luck in 2015. They overhauled their training regimen, with Tom Coughlin agreeing
to use Fridays during a normal work-week as a "recovery day,'' with players
choosing among various spa-like treatments to heal their bodies in lieu of
practice on the field. In exchange for that, the day before the game would be a
more rigorous walk-through than previous years. The Giants also use GPS
technology to monitor the stress level on the bodies of their players in order
to predict what parts of the body might be at greater risk for strains and
sprains.

But heading into Monday night's game against the Eagles at Lincoln Financial
Field, the Giants have not been able to rise above the injury issues that put a
severe crimp into their 2013 and 2014 plans. Three of their highest-paid,
highest-profile players have not set foot on the field because of a mixture of
bad luck or bad karma.

Defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul nearly blew his right hand off in a July 4
fireworks accident.

Left tackle Will Beatty tore a pectoral muscle during an offseason weight
lifting session. Victor Cruz, making strong strides from last year's surgery to
repair a ruptured patella tendon, got tripped up by a strained calf muscle, a
lingering issue that will likely keep him out the first half of the season.

There has been no real letup in the soft tissue injuries all the technology and
recovery days were supposed to reduce, with key defensive players such as
defensive end Robert Ayers and linebacker Devon Kennard missing multiple games
with strained hamstrings. Daniel Fells, the best-blocking tight end on the
roster, played in only two games and is gone for the season, on injured reserve
as he battles to fight off a MRSA infection in his ankle.

"Imagine what the defensive staff goes through looking at, 'OK, how many
linebackers do we have,' just for example,'' Coughlin said. "Who is going to
play? It's hard, believe me.

This is why you say it, somewhere along in preseason I say the same thing every
year, 'Dear Lord, give us the team that we leave camp with. Let us play with
these guys, let's see what we can do.' Now, nobody does, obviously. Everybody
gets in the same position, but that's why you take your hat off to people. You
make the determination, 'Hey, we're going to take whoever we have available and
we're going to do the best job we possibly can with those guys, and we're going
to give them every chance to win.' And that's what you have to do, because
otherwise, you can't constantly go up and down, up and down, up and down. It's a
hard way to do it." This past week, the Giants took another blow, as cornerback
Prince Amukamara came out of the 30-27 comeback victory over the 49ers with a
partially torn pectoral muscle.

Already struggling on defense most of the season, the Giants will be without one
of their top players for two to four weeks, perhaps more if the tear does not
heal on its own.

"I look at it, that weakens you a lot of different ways: special teams, depth at
corner, it affects the nickel spot,'' defensive coordinator Steve Spagnuolo
said. "So there's a trickle down anytime you lose one of your top guys,
especially on the edges when it's really important in this day and age in
football. That'll hurt us a little bit from depth, special teams.'' Next in line
is Jayron Hosley, who filled in as a starter against the Redskins when Dominique
Rodgers-Cromartie sat out with a concussion.

The coaching staff has been impressed with the way Hosley bounced back after a
rough 2014 season and insist they have confidence in a player who was their
third-round draft pick in 2012.

Still, there is no doubt the secondary takes a hit without Amukamara and others
need to rise to the occasion. It is a common song sung around the Giants.

PDF 14, 15

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAINING DAZE: The Giants training staff has been busy - again - this
season, tending to the likes of Ereck Flowers during games. Despite all their
work, Devan Kennard (left), Victor Cruz (center) and Robert Ayers have spent too
many games in their warm-ups on the sidelines. Joseph E. Amaturo (3); Getty
Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
