
                               4 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 1, 2016 Friday

A free-speech win over Schneid & Co.

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 757 words


'Schneiderman's move . . . drew outrage from First Amendment champions.'

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and his fellow greenies are getting
a lesson about the dangers of believing their own propaganda.

These know-it-alls claim there's a "consensus" on climate change and what to do
about it. And they believe that consensus is so broad that even prosecuting
dissent would be a slam-dunk. Claude Walker's monumental crash-and-burn this
week blew up that theory. Schneiderman and his ideological pals, from Al Gore to
Hillary Clinton, would be wise to take note.

Walker is the attorney general for the US Virgin Islands who launched a
ludicrous racketeering probe of ExxonMobil and sent sweeping subpoenas to the
company and the Competitive Enterprise Institute. Ostensibly, his suspicion,
like that of a similar probe by Schneiderman, was that Exxon fraudulently
downplayed climate-change's dangers to the public and its investors.

But Walker sought Exxon's correspondence with some 90 groups suspected of the
"crime" of questioning climate-change orthodoxy. The obvious point was to make
these groups think twice about the findings their research produces and their
positions on the issue. It was also meant to scare off donors, like Exxon.

Yet Wednesday, Walker withdrew his Exxon subpoena. He'd already taken back his
order to CEI.

So his probe, it seems, is kaput.

Walker & Co. miscalculated. Schneiderman launched his investigation in November.
In March, he held a presser with attorneys general from nearly 20 other states,
promising a cooperative effort against Exxon. Al Gore even appeared.

Yet only a few AGs actually launched probes and issued subpoenas. Massachusetts
AG Maura Healey this week delayed her own subpoena of Exxon. Schneiderman is
quickly becoming odd man out.

No surprise: The climate-change "consensus" isn't as widespread as greenies
claim.

Indeed, the claim itself is just another attempt to silence debate. The science
is settled, they say. Anyone who disagrees must be a kook, a "denier."

Schneiderman's move and the March presser may have won plaudits from the
radicals, who hope to end use of all fossil fuel. But it also drew outrage from
First Amendment champions and those who saw the probes as an abuse of office.

Lawmakers like House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) questioned
the actions of the AGs. Exxon counter-sued.

And this month, attorneys general from 13 other states bashed their
counterparts' gambit as a "grave mistake." They made clear the hypocrisy and
political motives of attacking Exxon: Schneiderman & Co. claim the firm may have
fraudulently minimized climate-change risks. But what about, say,
renewable-energy companies that might be exaggerating them?

If temperatures rise slower than expected (or not at all), they write, "many
'clean energy' companies may become less valuable and some may be altogether
worthless." Why aren't Schneiderman & Co., who claim to be looking out for the
public and investors, subpoenaing them?

If Exxon was wrong to fund researchers who "understate" climate risks, the
attorneys asked, what about all the money going to those overstating it? "Does
anyone doubt that 'clean energy' companies have funded nonprofits who
exaggerated the risk?"

The Schneiderman gang targeted Exxon and fossil-fuel companies for a reason, and
it's not to protect investors. They see political hay here. They truly (or
cynically) believe slamming these companies - and anyone who fails to toe the
radicals' line - will draw overwhelming support. (And campaign cash.)

Sure, states like New York (one of just a few places in America where fracking
is banned) may applaud Schneiderman. But Instapundit's Glenn Reynolds, a law
professor, also notes some ironic potential costs to the attack: Under federal
law, he writes, it's a felony "for two or more persons to agree together to
injure, threaten, or intimidate a person . . . in the free exercise or enjoyment
of any right or privilege secured to him/her by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States."

The right to free speech is secured by the Constitution, even when it comes to
climate change. Conspiring to deprive non-believers of that right certainly
sounds like it meets the law's definition.

Inspired by the 1990s victory against tobacco companies, the Schneiderman cabal
thought it could score big-time by threatening a RICO case against fossil-fuel
companies. How fitting if the same threat brings them to heel.

abrodsky@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 11, 2016 Friday

Hot Climate for Free Speech

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 266 words


Unsure about climate change? Watch out: You may be risking jail.

It starts with the Justice Department eyeing legal action against fossil-fuel
companies for questioning climate-science claims.

"We have received information" about certain allegations and "have referred it
to the FBI," US Attorney General Loretta Lynch said at a Senate hearing
Wednesday.

In January, Justice asked the FBI to see if a racketeering probe of ExxonMobil -
presumably a criminal one - is warranted.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is also after the company.

Climate-change activists, including some lawmakers, claim ExxonMobil's research
years ago showed that fossil fuels contribute to global warming - but that it
kept that info secret and misled investors.

But the idea is patently ludicrous.

Fact is, climate-change science is still quite primitive. Neither Exxon nor
anyone else has ever had definitive proof of anything about climate change.

As for the company keeping dark secrets, even the anti-fossil-fuel New York
Times admitted Exxon "published extensive research over decades that largely
lined up with mainstream climatology."

No, the legal threats are a warning to dissenters: Shut up, or risk legal
armageddon.

(Plus, prosecutors might squeeze billions from the company along the way. )

It all adds up to an outrageous attack on free speech - and a pander to
ideologues.

Testing assumptions is at the core of science, and Americans have a right to say
whatever they want. If the true believers don't like dissent, they're equally
free to refute it. If they can.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 20, 2016 Friday

Global warm defies freezin'

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 62 words


My calendar said it was mid-May. Yet parts of New England got hit with five
inches of snow this week. Is it a sign of global cooling?

Warming alarmists say invariably that any weather deviation spells the opposite:
It's a scary sign of climate change.

Will planetary hucksters admit they could be wrong if there's a Northern
Hemisphere deep-freeze in July? I doubt it.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

O's Climate Excuse

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 255 words


Yes, President Obama really did just try to blame climate change for horrors now
under way in Syria. It was a two-fer in the self-justification sweepstakes -
shifting the blame toward a threat he's crusaded against, and away from his own
years of inaction.

At a White House climate-change event with actor Leo DiCaprio, Obama cited
"powerful" studies that suggest "droughts that happened in Syria contributed to
the unrest and the Syrian civil war."

Which, he went on, makes man-caused global warming "a national-security issue" -
one ignored by "members of Congress who scoff at climate change at the same time
they are . . . extolling their patriotism."

Look: Syria's "unrest" started as peaceful protests - which dictator Bashar
al-Assad answered with bullets and then barrel bombs, triggering a rebellion.

Obama insisted on staying out - refusing even low-risk steps like setting up
no-fly zones to shield innocent civilians, or sending arms to pro-US rebels.

Instead, he mocked the rebels as "pharmacists and dentists" - and ISIS, when it
came on the scene, as a "JV team."

He loudly drew a "red line," then blinked when the time came to enforce it -
saving face only thanks to a lifeline from Russia's Vladimir Putin, who would
later intervene decisively to save Assad.

And climate change had nothing to do with any of it - it's simply the "threat"
Obama wants to fight, rather than the ones he's actually been faced with.

That he's still claiming he was right all along isn't just smug, it's pathethic.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 14, 2016 Thursday

Climate slap at Schneid

BYLINE:

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 239 words


A Republican House chairman issued subpoenas Wednesday to two Democratic state
attorneys general - including New York's Eric Schneiderman - seeking records
about their investigation into whether ExxonMobil misled investors about
man-made climate change.

Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, chairman of the House Science Committee, is pursuing
records from Schneiderman and Massachusetts AG Maura Healey. Smith insisted he
acted only after they refused for months to give the panel information lawmakers
had requested on the ExxonMobil case.

Smith, who is among a large group of congressional Republicans who reject
mainstream climate science, said Schneiderman and Healey were pursuing "a
political agenda" on behalf of environmental groups fighting ExxonMobil over
climate change.

The groups accuse ExxonMobil of hiding early findings showing a link between
global warming and the burning of fossil fuels, such as oil and gas. ExxonMobil
denies that.

Smith and other Republicans portrayed the issue as a matter of free speech,
charging Schneiderman, Healey and their allies were trying to intimidate
scientists and others who question climate change.

"The actions by the attorneys general amount to a form of extortion," Smith
claimed.

The AGs and their allies want an out-of-court settlement with ExxonMobil "so
they can obtain funds for their own purposes," said Smith, whose 2014 campaign
alone got $10,000 from ExxonMobil.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

President-Elect Trump Tells Times: You stink, I respect you, let's talk

BYLINE: Bob fredericks

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 858 words


Donald Trump met with reporters and editors of The New York Times Tuesday and
told them they were unfair to him - before saying he has "great respect" for the
Gray Lady and launching into a wide-ranging discussion on key issues.

"I will say the Times was the roughest of all," the president-elect told the
journalists at the newspaper's Midtown headquarters.

After getting that off his chest, Trump went on to claim that he has an "open
mind" about climate change, wants nothing to do with the alt-right movement and
cannot t easily dispose of his numerous properties.

In his first extended interview with a newspaper since Election Day, the
president-elect conceded that human activity plays a role in climate shifts.

"I think there is some connectivity. Some, something. It depends on how much,"
he said.

"Clean air is vitally important," he said, according to a series of live tweets
by Times reporters.

As a candidate, Trump called climate change a "hoax" and vowed to pull out of
the Paris climate accord on reducing greenhouse gases.

But Trump said Tuesday he is now considering his options.

"I'm looking at it very closely. I have an open mind to it," he said, while
adding that he was also considering "how much it will cost our companies."

On other matters:

nsTrump said he was "never a fan of the Electoral College." Winning the popular
vote - which he lost to Hillary Clinton by roughly 1.7 million votes - would
have been more satisfying, he added.

nsThe billionaire businessman would not be pinned down on how he planned to
separate his empire from his role as commander in chief.

"The law's totally on my side. The president can't have a conflict of interest,"
he said.

"In theory, I could run my business perfectly and then run the country
perfectly. There's never been a case like this."

He added that his corporate interests were "so unimportant to me relative to
what I'm doing," although he acknowledged that his brand has become "hotter"
since he won, and that could benefit his new Washington, DC, hotel.

n Trump denied that he or his campaign supported the alt-right movement when
asked about a conference on Saturday in Washington, DC, where alt-right
supporters shouted, "Hail Trump" and made Nazi salutes.

"It's not a group I want to energize," the president-elect said.

"And if they are energized, I want to look into it and find out why. I disavow
and condemn them," he added.

nsHe defended his top strategist, Steve Bannon.

"If I thought he was a racist or alt-right or any of the things, the terms we
could use, I wouldn't even think about hiring him," he said.

nsAnd Trump said he was confident he could get his massive infrastructure plan
through the GOP-controlled Congress.

"Right now, they're in love with me," he said. "Four weeks ago, they weren't in
love with me."

Asked about his vow to "open up" the libel laws to make it easier to sue news
organizations, Trump backpedaled.

"I think you'll be happy," he said when asked about the First Amendment before
relating a conversation with a pal, who said, "You know, you might be sued a lot
more."

"I said, 'You know, I hadn't thought of that.' "

While the conversation with the Times was described as pleasant, Trump couldn't
resist a final jab.

"I have great respect for The New York Times. I have tremendous respect. I think
I've been treated very rough," he said.

He added that he read the paper regularly - "unfortunately."

"I'd live about 20 years longer if I didn't," he cracked.

Donald Trump on Tuesday walks into the lion's den - well, OK, the headquarters
of The New York Times - where he addressed a wide range of issues.

* On prosecuting Hillary Clinton: "I don't want to hurt the Clintons - I really
don't. She went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways. It's
just not something that I feel very strongly about."

* On the alt-right movement: "It's not a group I want to energize. And if they
are energized, I want to look into it and find out why. I disavow and condemn
them."

* On climate change/Paris accord: "I think there is some connectivity [with
human activity]. Some, something. It depends on how much . . . I have an open
mind to [the accord]. [But I'm also considering] how much it will cost our
companies."

* On doing business during presidency: "The law's totally on my side. The
president can't have a conflict of interest. In theory, I could run my business
perfectly and then run the country perfectly. There's never been a case like
this."

* On the Middle East: "I would love to be the one who made peace with Israel and
the Palestinians. That would be such a great achievement. I don't think we
should be a nation-builder."

* On the First Amendment: "I think you'll be happy. [A pal told me], 'You know,
you might be sued a lot more.' I said, 'You know, I hadn't thought of that.' "

* On the Electoral College: "I'd rather do the popular vote. I think we'd do as
well or better."

* On Steve Bannon: "If I thought he was a racist or alt-right or any of the
things, the terms we could use, I wouldn't even think about hiring him."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Donald Trump. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

More Just Human-Ice Interactions

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 220 words


Congratulations, taxpayers of America: You've just spent $412,930 on a
"scientific" paper on the "relationship between gender and glaciers."

That's what the National Science Foundation dropped on "Glaciers, gender and
science," 10,000-plus words of gobbledygook from University of Oregon prof Mark
Carey.

Sure, that's roughly 40 bucks a word - but many of them are big words.

The study urges scientists to take a "feminist political ecology and feminist
postcolonial" approach when studying melting ice caps and climate change. Hey,
it's not really global doom unless it comes with full-bore cutting-edge
social-justice buzzwords.

Another taste: "The feminist glaciology framework generates robust analysis of
gender, power and epistemologies in dynamic social-ecological systems, thereby
leading to more just and equitable science and human-ice interactions."

More just science - and human-ice interactions. Wow.

Governments across the planet are spending countless billions to combat climate
change - when the models that supposedly justify those outlays can't explain why
global temperatures have been flat for nearly two decades now. Yet federal funds
are going for a feminist take on climate.

Almost makes you wonder if science really has much of anything to do with all
the noise over climate change.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 23, 2016 Sunday

Battle hymn of the Republican Trump's to-do list in Gettysburg address

BYLINE: Mary Kay Linge

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 833 words


Donald Trump delivered his "closing argument" to the presidential election in
historic Gettysburg, Pa., on Saturday, invoking Abraham Lincoln as he vowed to
unite a divided country and set it on course with a series of policies he
intends to put in place during his first 100 days in office.

The populist wish list - a push to set a presidential, policy-driven tone for
his campaign's final 17 days - included tax cuts, term limits, school choice and
regulatory reform in a speech he called "a contract between Donald J. Trump and
the American voter."

"Change has to come from outside our very broken system," said Trump, who lags
behind Hillary Clinton in most national polls and ended another bruising week
during which he refused to say he would accept the election results.

Pledging to "drain the swamp" of Washington, DC, he said he would fight for a
constitutional amendment to limit congressional terms and to trim the fat from
the federal bureaucracy.

"For every new federal regulation, two existing regulations must be eliminated,"
he told a crowd of about 500 in a ballroom at the Eisenhower Hotel and
Conference Center.

Trump also said he would bar White House and congressional employees from taking
lobbying jobs for five years after leaving government service and would freeze
federal hiring.

A seven-point list of economic promises included his stump lines on
renegotiating NAFTA and labeling China a currency manipulator and a new pledge
to pull billions of dollars for UN climate-change efforts.

"My economic plan will create at least 25 million jobs in one decade," he said.

He touted tax relief, promising middle-class families with two children a 35
percent tax cut and vowing to reduce corporate taxes from 35 percent to 15
percent.

He also said he would thwart big media mergers, like the deal for AT&T to buy
Time Warner, "because it's too much concentration of power in the hands of too
few" - and because the media is part of the "rigged system" aligned against his
campaign.

"The media is trying to poison the mind of the American voter," the tycoon
charged. "Deals like this destroy democracy."

To "restore security and the constitutional rule of law," he said he would
immediately repeal executive orders issued by President Obama, deport criminal
undocumented immigrants and restrict immigration through "extreme vetting."

"We want people who love our country or who can love our country," he said.
"There are ways of determining that."

Trump said he was honored to speak on "hallowed ground" at the center 4¹/  miles
from where Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address in 1863.

"President Lincoln served in a time of division like we've never seen before,"
he said. "It is my hope that we can look at his example to heal the divisions we
are living through right now. We are a very divided nation."

Clinton's campaign was unimpressed.

"This speech gave us a troubling view as to what a Trump State of the Union
would sound like - rambling, unfocused, full of conspiracy theories and attacks
on the media, and lacking in any real answers for American families," said
spokeswoman Christina Reynolds.

Proposals from donald Trump's "contract" with voters:

CorruPTion

n Term limits on all Congress members

n Hiring freeze on most fed employees

n For every new fed regulation, cut two regs

n Five-year ban on White House and congressional officials becoming lobbyists

n Lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of foreign
governments

n Ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for US elections

eConomy

n Renegotiate NAFTA or withdraw

n Withdraw from Trans-Pacific Partnership

n Label China a currency manipulator

n Identify and end foreign trade fraud

n Lift restrictions on US energy reserves

n Lift roadblocks on energyinfrastructure projects

n Cancel billions in payments to UN climate-change programs

Law & order

n Cancel every executive action and order by President Obama

n Nominate a replacement for Justice Antonin Scalia

n Cancel funding to sanctuary cities

n Remove 2 million undocumented immigrants and cancel visas from

countries that won't take them back

n Suspend immigration from terror prone regions

ProPosed Laws

n Give middle-class families with two kids a 35% tax cut

n Create tariffs to discourage US companies from laying off workers

before moving to other countries.

n Spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment over next 10 years

n End Common Core; expand vocational and technical education

n Repeal and replace ObamaCare

n Allow Americans to deduct child care and elder care

n Fund a border wall; mandatory two-year prison sentence for

those who illegally re-enter the US; five years if they have felony

convictions

n Increase funding for police training; increase resources for federal

law enforcement

n Expand military investment

n Enact ethics reforms to eliminate influence of special interests

mlinge@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 5, 2016 Tuesday

Why Pope's Popularity Plummets Back Home

BYLINE: David Kaufman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 796 words


'The pope's own people actually view him as less honest than a host of Argentine
national icons.'

While flying back to the Vatican after a visit to Armenia, Pope Francis declared
that Christians should apologize to LGBTs and others who've been "offended" or
"exploited" by the church. It's the type of radical thinking that has helped
Francis - the first non-European pontiff in more than 1,200 years - achieve a
level of celebrity nearly unprecedented in the history of Catholicism.

But now it seems Francis' star is swiftly falling where it perhaps matters most
- his homeland, Argentina. Indeed, a recent local poll revealed that Francis -
the former Jorge Mario Bergoglio, archbishop of Buenos Aires - has tumbled from
the first to the ninth most "trustworthy Argentine" in just two years.

True, the pope still outranks Argentina's pro-US/market-friendly new president,
Mauricio Macri. And, yes, a recent international Gallup poll found the pope more
popular than any other world leader. But despite the accolades, the pope's own
people actually view him as less honest than a host of Argentine national icons.

The data marks a stark volte-face for Francis. And while the pope's leftist,
humanist, populist views may delight progressives abroad, back in Argentina
they're coming under fire for increasingly influencing policy.

The pope's most serious problems stem from his relationships with President
Macri and his predecessor - the anti-Western/pro-Iran Peronist, Cristina
Fernández de Kirchner, who was elected out of office last year. Francis enjoyed
warm relations with Kirchner, who visited him at the Vatican some half-dozen
times - often treated to long lunches hosted in Francis' private residence. It
was the type of hospitality provided to other similarly leftist leaders, like
Ecuador's Rafael Correa and Evo Morales of Bolivia.

Macri, however, has met with Francis just once - a brief, chilly February
get-together in the Vatican library culminating with a frowning Francis glumly
posing for the press with the president and his wife. There was no warmth,
little laughter and - most crucially - no promise of an official visit by
Francis to the nation of his birth.

The optics may have been a disaster, but their meaning was clear: Macri might be
loved by international counterparts like President Obama - who visited him in
Argentina in March - but Pope Francis will not be joining his growing chorus of
global cheerleaders.

Since the winter, the pope has only become frostier toward Macri - while
continuing to court Kirchner and her surrogates. In May, he received activist
Hebe de Bonafini, a fierce Macri critic who once applauded the 9/11 attacks. And
this month, the pope-affiliated charity Scholas Occurrentes declined a $1.2
million grant from the Macri government.

The pope said the gift could be viewed as corruption. But many Argentine
politicians and intellectuals saw the move as yet another public swipe at the
new president. Indeed, despite Francis' mandate for political neutrality,
leading local newspaper columnist Jorge Fernandez Diaz suggested that anti-Macri
forces are quietly hoping the pope will emerge as Argentina's "opposition
leader."

Considering Kirchner basically bankrupted her country, the pope's support for
her is curious at best - and destructive at worst.

True, Macri's economic-stabilization programs have caused inflation to spike,
increased utility prices and led to sizable job losses. But with its currency
stabilized and debt markets reopened, Argentina is now poised to finally (and
fully) re-enter the global economy after decades of painful belt-tightening.

If corruption subsides - admittedly, a big if - the resulting foreign investment
could improve living conditions at every level of society. Thus, Francis'
actions are a direct threat to Argentina's long-overdue normalization. And his
falling popularity suggests that many Argentines - despite their strong faith -
are willing to choose prosperity over pontificating.

Here's why it matters: Should the pope's interfering eventually go global,
Catholics worldwide may soon face a similar choice.

For Argentina, such additional soul-searching may be needed soon. A new scandal
is currently brewing linking a local Catholic monastery with efforts by a former
Kirchner-era official to hide millions in potentially stolen public funds. So
far, the findings have yet to extend beyond the diocese level.

"But things could get worse," says Jorge Lanata, Argentina's most important
investigative journalist, who's now digging deep into these accusations. True,
Lanata has been highly critical of his country's former regime. But he's also
Argentina 10th most respected person - just one notch below Pope Francis.

dkaufman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

An Ugly 'Fix' for Unsafe Schools

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 386 words


In judging whether a school is safe, do you think it makes sense to consider
arson incidents? How about robbery? Riot? State Education Commissioner Maryellen
Elia and Chancellor Betty Rosa seem to believe these and other matters are
irrelevant.

The Elia-Rosa tag-team has already watered down other key measures of how
schools, teachers and students perform. Now they're recommending that the state
Board of Regents OK gutting New York's school-violence reporting system, known
as Violent and Disruptive Incident Reporting, or VADIR - by moving from 20
"incident categories" down to nine.

Each year SED requires districts to submit school-violence reports for each
school building. These stats determine which schools get labeled "persistently
dangerous."

But the proposed "reform" drops such serious categories as robbery, theft,
larceny, riot and arson, and merges several severe offenses with minor ones.

They also want a new label -a statewide "school climate index" to measure
building environments - to avoid the "stigma" of the "persistently dangerous"
listing.

Sorry: "Violence" is a far more useful measure than "climate" - which is of
course the real point: To make these reports less useful to the parents who
might use the information in ways the bureaucrats don't like.

The timing of the proposed changes couldn't be worse. Since Mayor de Blasio took
office in 2014, the number of weapons confiscated in schools is up 30 percent.
Yet the new system would make it impossible to monitor weapons seized at school
entrances and those recovered in classrooms.

And the revised VADIR measures would create even greater disparity between the
crimes that schools report and those that the NYPD reports.

If the Regents accept this change - a move to give the public a less complete
picture - they'll be showing they don't take school violence seriously.

Elia and Rosa have already blurred standards for the Common Core curriculum,
teacher evaluations and standardized testing - yielding to the special interests
that got them their jobs. Every change they propose must now be greeted with
suspicion.

Whether it's achievement or safety, the more data, the better. The public and
members of the Legislature should strongly urge the Regents to reject these
changes at their December meeting.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 11, 2016 Sunday

AG's oily appeal to Exxon foe Eyed 'gov run' $upport

BYLINE: Isabel Vincent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 454 words


When state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman took on ExxonMobil over climate
change last year, it seemed like an odd global crusade for a local politician.

Perhaps he was drilling for campaign cash, critics now contend after The Post
obtained an e-mail that appears to show the state's top cop was seeking a
tree-hugging billionaire's help to finance a run for governor in 2018.

In March 2016, four months after announcing the Exxon probe, the Democratic AG
tried to arrange a phone meeting with hedge-fund mogul Tom Steyer, an
environmental activist and Exxon enemy.

"Eric Schneiderman would like to have a call with Tom regarding support for his
race for governor . . . regarding Exxon case," reads the March 10 e-mail.

The note was sent by Steyer lawyer Ted White to Erin Suhr, Steyer's director of
strategic planning at Fahr LLC, which oversees Steyer's political and
philanthropic efforts. White, a Colorado lawyer, is Fahr's managing partner.

"Anyone have any flags on this call before I add to Tom's call sheet for
Monday?" Suhr replied the next day in an e-mail.

A spokeswoman for Steyer and the two Fahr execs confirmed the e-mail exchange
but said the phone meeting never happened.

She also said White has not donated to the AG's campaign.

Steyer is a heavyweight Dem donor who has poured cash into Hillary Clinton's
coffers, organized a fund-raiser for President Obama and helped bankroll Clinton
acolyte Terry McAuliffe's successful 2013 gubernatorial bid in Virginia.
Steyer's NextGen Climate Action PAC spent nearly $70 million on elections in
2014.

Steyer had accused Exxon of misleading investors on climate change for nearly 30
years. In January, as Schneiderman rallied attorneys general in other states to
the cause, Steyer urged California's attorney general to join the investigation.

But with AGs deserting the case, many wonder why Schneiderman took on an issue
so far afield.

"It all smacks of politics," said former New York AG Dennis Vacco. "What's
unsettling to me about this probe is that many of Attorney General
Schneiderman's supporters are investors in alternative-energy companies and
enemies of Exxon."

The March e-mail alludes to a run for governor, but Schneiderman had denied any
such ambition months earlier, telling Politico on Nov. 12, "I am not running for
governor in 2018."

His spokesman, Eric Soufer, called the e-mails "nonsense" and said neither the
AG nor his staff communicated with White or Steyer.

"If anything, Mr. White may be referring to Mr. Steyer's reported interest in a
run for governor of California," Soufer said.

But a source close to White told The Post, "That's not our interpretation of the
e-mail."

ivincent@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eric SchneidermanTom Steyer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 22, 2016 Saturday

Election 2016 'Left' behind?! Extremist liberals fear Hill treachery

BYLINE: Bob Fredericks

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 645 words


Progressives angry over revelations in Team Clinton's e-mails - such as one
calling their hero Bernie Sanders "a doofus" - are vowing to use the hacked
messages to prevent the Democratic presidential nominee from tilting right after
Election Day, it was reported Friday.

In the e-mails, Hillary Clinton and top advisers describe liberals and their
causes as "puritanical," "pompous," "naive," "radical" and "dumb," even calling
some of them "freaks" who need to "get a life."

The lefties are taking notes and aiming to fire back, Politico reported. "We
were already kind of suspicious of where Hillary's instincts were, but now we
see that she is who we thought she was," one liberal Democratic operative told
the site. "The honeymoon is going to be tight and small, and maybe nonexistent."

The progressives could make Clinton's job tougher if she wins, because she'll
need their support when battling GOP hard-liners if Republicans retain the
House.

The private e-mails, released on Friday by WikiLeaks, include messages to and
from top Clintonistas John Podesta, Neera Tanden, Huma Abedin and Jake Sullivan.

Thousands had already been released, and Democrats expect a steady stream
between now and Election Day.

Progressives are compiling the unflattering e-mails that either mock Sanders or
other liberal figures or show that Clinton's private positions on trade, Wall
Street, climate change and energy differ from her more liberal public
pronouncements.

Politico reported that they plan to weaponize the material to fight policies or
appointments they don't think toe the ultra-liberal line.

"Some of the first fights that she is going to be dealing with are going to be .
. . about who she's going to pick for Treasury, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Education and Labor, and for regulatory agencies like the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Trade Commission," one operative
said.

Sullivan, who was Clinton's lead policy adviser when she was secretary of state,
is a possible a candidate to become her national security adviser. The WikiLeaks
­e-mails showed him as a centrist, with him suggesting in one exchange that
Clinton was more hawkish on surveillance measures than President Obama.

Tanden, president of the Clinton-friendly think tank Center for American
Progress, called herself "a loyal soldier" for Clinton and described some of her
own workers as "crazy leftists" after they were critical of the former first
lady.

Podesta, Clinton's campaign manager and president of her transition team,
branded Sanders "a doofus" for the Vermont senator's biting criticism of the
Paris climate agreement, which Sanders said didn't go far enough.

Those in Clinton's camp told Politico that they weren't overly concerned about
the leaked e-mails, downplaying their impact and blaming Russia for the theft.

But RoseAnn DeMoro, head of the national nurses union, said, "If the WikiLeaks
are accurate, the issues closest to our hearts are probably not ones she will
embrace.''

Meanwhile, Fox News reported Friday night that about 1,000 messages between
Clinton and Gen. David Petraeus are believed to have been withheld from the
trove of ­e-mails provided by her staff to the State Department in 2014.

"Can you believe this doofus Bernie attacked it?" -Dec. 13, 2015: Clinton
campaign chair John Podesta (left) to Neera Tanden, president of the Center for
American Progress, after Bernie Sanders (right) wouldn't support a 195-nation
treaty on climate change

"I f--king hate that guy. Like I'd like to kick the s--t out of him on
twitter...but I know that is dumb." - Aug. 11, 2015: Tanden (left) to Podesta,
writing about Harvard Prof. Larry Lessig (right), who ran for president this
year but withdrew before the primaries

"An everyday American pompous law professor." -Aug. 12, 2015: Podesta's reply

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Not right! Hillary Clinton's private chats have lefties worried if she
wins next month.-John Podesta; Bernie Sanders.-Neera Tanden; Larry Lessig.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 15, 2016 Tuesday

Cuomo's New York Juice $queeze (squeeze)

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 294 words


Every once in a while, even the loony left is right - and so it is with the
attacks on Gov. Cuomo's insane energy schemes by the group Stop the Cuomo Tax.

On Monday, it released data showing the governor's electric-bill surcharge to
bail out upstate nuclear plants deals "a double dose of financial hurt" for
800,000 New Yorkers already struggling to pay their bills.

Overall, the fee will suck $8 billion from taxpayers over 12 years, including
$2.6 billion from residential customers.

Yes, Stop the Cuomo Tax is likely more interested in shutting down nuke plants
than aiding ratepayers. But Cuomo's charge will hike New York electric bills,
already among the nation's highest.

The gov wants to rescue the plants because they provide jobs, and because he
thinks nuclear and other renewables help fight climate change. Trouble is, there
isn't enough demand for the plants the gov wants to bail out - with natural-gas
prices low, they can't compete. Nor is it remotely clear that expensive
renewables are even the right response to shifting climate trends.

And even if Cuomo's bailout saves some jobs at the plants, his rate hikes would
kill others at the companies socked by the higher electric costs.

Worse: A recent National Bureau for Economic Research paper notes that
increasing dependence on wind and solar (as in Cuomo's plan) actually boosts the
need for natural-gas-based power plants (which work even when it's dark and
winds are calm).

More headaches for Cuomo: The need for backup power jacks up the cost of
renewables, the paper notes. Yet New York isn't profiting from its own vast
supplies of cheap natural gas, thanks to the gov's fracking ban.

Hmm. Better make that "double dose of financial hurt" a triple dose - at the
least.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

End the Witch-Hunt, Schneid EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 253 words


The Securities and Exchange Commission just handed Eric Schneiderman a
face-saving way to drop his fast-imploding probe of Exxon.

The Wall Street Journal reports the SEC is now investigating how Exxon values
its assets (i.e., oil reserves), given "increasing climate-change regulation."
That's the only issue that state Attorney General Schneiderman has left in his
own Exxon probe.

Schneiderman started with a broader witch-hunt. But he's already dropped his bid
to "prove" Exxon lied about what it knew about global warming. Best to pocket
the praise (and donations) he's won from anti-fossil-fuel fanatics, and let the
SEC take over. Heck, he can even claim credit for nudging the agency to act.

The commission is clearly the most appropriate regulator of the valuation issue
- even though it has zero chance of making any charges stick.

The SEC's own rules require companies to do valuation write-downs only with
regard to how enacted laws and those "reasonably" expected to be passed may
affect their financial position.

And no one can credibly say Exxon's clearly unreasonable in assessing the risks
from future climate laws.

Consider: Even top elections wonk Nate Silver is having it tough predicting the
presidential race: In August, he gave Donald Trump only a 3 percent chance of
victory; he now has him at 48 percent. So how can anyone confidently predict
what all of Washington might do?

The anti-Exxon train is on a fast track to disaster - Scheiderman's smart move
is get off the case.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Climate change for Sam?

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 174 words


SAM Champion will return to "Good Morning America" next week to fill in for
meteorologist Ginger Zee while she's on maternity leave. The move had TV
insiders buzzing Monday that Champion - who left "GMA" in 2013 for the Weather
Channel, with drizzly results - could head back to ABC, where he was a ratings
hit. The Weather Channel's part-owned by NBC, intense rival to ABC in the
morning-show wars. "Behind the scenes, people are saying that the move to let
Champion on 'GMA' means NBC doesn't care if he leaves Weather Channel," said a
source. "It's a situation like with Josh Elliott, who was being paid a lot to
not do much." Elliott went from "GMA" to NBC Sports in 2014 and has already left
the network. "Sam and ['GMA' personality] Lara Spencer are personally close," a
source points out. Reports have said Champion was angling last year to go back
to his old job after his Weather Channel ratings fell flat. But a source close
to "GMA" told us, "We're very happy with the team we have in place." Champion
also guested on NBC and CBS.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 29, 2016 Monday

Oscars 2016 Feather in diCap Leo wins at last for Best Actor, 'Spotlight' tops

BYLINE: Kate Sheehy and

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 522 words


Hollywood heartthrob Leonardo DiCaprio finally landed his first Oscar on Sunday
night for his gripping role as a revenge-seeking fur trapper left to die in "The
Revenant."

The win came after four previous nominations without a trophy for DiCaprio, who
beat out such competitors as last year's winner, Eddie Redmayne, to net the
Academy Award.

DiCaprio, 41, received a standing ovation as he took the stage and thanked
co-star Tom Hardy and his "unbelievably talented director," Alejandro Iñárritu,
who won Best Director for the second straight year after last year's "Birdman."

DiCaprio then used his Hollywood platform to hammer home an issue near and dear
to his heart: global warming.

"Climate change is real, it is happening right now, it is the most urgent threat
facing our entire species, and we need to work together and stop
procrastinating," he said.

But while DiCaprio and Iñárritu celebrated their individual wins, their flick
was upset for Best Picture. "Spotlight," a drama about newspaper journalists
exposing sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, copped the top prize.

"This film gave a voice to survivors," said "Spotlight" producer Michael Sugar.
"Pope Francis, it's time to protect the children and restore the faith."

The postapocalyptic action flick "Mad Max: Fury Road" took home the most
trophies, scoring six awards - for Costume Design, Production Design, Hair and
Makeup, Film Editing, Sound Editing and Sound Mixing.

First-time Oscar nominee Brie Larson, 26, took the Best Actress award for her
turn in the drama "Room," about a kidnapped woman and her young son. Larson beat
out veteran Cate Blanchett and repeat winner Jennifer Lawrence to land the
award.

"Rocky" actor Sylvester Stallone took it on the chin when the boxing-film
heavyweight got KO'd by a relative unknown for Best Supporting Actor.

"Bridge of Spies" actor Mark Rylance upset Stallone, who reprised his famous
role as never-say-die boxer Rocky Balboa for the flick "Creed" and was the
sentimental favorite to win the statue.

Rylance also won out over other better-known Hollywood heavy-hitters such as
Christian Bale, Mark Ruffalo and Tom Hardy.

Rylance played an accused Russian spy in the late-'50s drama directed by film
legend Steven Spielberg and starring veteran Oscar winner Tom Hanks.

"If you ever wondered about acting with Tom Hanks, would it help, the answer is
clearly yes," Rylance said.

The Best Supporting Actress award went to favorite Alicia Vikander, 27, for her
role as the wife of Redmayne's gender-bending character in "The Danish Girl.''

The Swedish actress, 27, beat out notables Rachel McAdams, Kate Winslet, Rooney
Mara and Jennifer Jason Leigh to take home the award.

Not surprisingly, "Inside Out'' - the witty Pixar movie that brought to life a
little girl's roller-coaster world of emotions - copped Best Animated Film.

Composer Ennio Morricone, 87, became one of the oldest people to ever win an
Oscar when he took home the Best Original Score award for "The Hateful Eight."

Additional reporting by David K. Li

Full winners list at nypost.com

ksheehy@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEST ACTOR: Leonardo DiCaprio; BEST DIRECTOR: Alejandro Inarritu; BEST
ACTRESS: Brie Larson; BEST PICTURE: "Spotlight" [Photos: Getty Images; AP;
Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 8, 2016 Sunday

Odd environment

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 82 words


Buxom Pam Anderson (above) auctioned off selfies for $500 a pop at the Champions
of Jewish Values International Awards Gala on Thursday. Anderson - who's been to
Tel Aviv and Jerusalem - praised Israel's efforts on "conservation," and the
former "Baywatch" babe then impressively launched into a speech about "ecology."
But one guest sniffed, "This feels like a climate-change conference."
Billionaire Sheldon Adelson and wife Miriam donated $1 million. Anderson
attended with son Brandon.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pam Anderson.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 3, 2016 Friday

FILM REVIEWS IN BRIEF Time To Choose

BYLINE: Kyle Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 149 words


The climate-change documentary "Time To Choose" makes the disaster movie "The
Day After Tomorrow" look like a model of restraint. Charles Ferguson's alarmist
manifesto makes sci-fi claims such as "Over 600 million people's homes will be
destroyed if the world's coastlines are flooded." Yes, and over 7 billion people
will be killed if aliens destroy the human race.

Among other outlandish claims: Two-thirds of fossil fuel reserves must remain
unextracted to prevent catastrophe (recall Al Gore's equally absurd guess, 10
years and five months ago, that we had only 10 years to do that). At his most
reprehensible, Ferguson looks at deforestation to feed China and blames it on
billionaires. What he supports is hundreds of millions of Asians being kept near
starvation to placate the neuroses of limousine liberals.

Running time: 97 minutes. Not rated (disturbing images). Now playing.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A mother and daughter wear masks in smoggy Beijing in the over-the-top
documentary "Time To Choose."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 26, 2016 Sunday

'Global warming' mongers

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 43 words


Headline: "Extreme Heat Could Kill 3,300 New Yorkers a Year by 2080."

So says Time magazine and other outlets that hyped a climate-change scare study.
The stories conveniently ignore that it was 117 degrees in Phoenix last week,
and the world didn't end.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 30, 2016 Thursday

Leo nixes Muslim role

BYLINE: Richard Johnson; The man who knows New York

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 123 words


LEONARDO DiCaprio won't be guilty of "whitewashing history" by starring in a
biopic of the 13th-century Persian poet Rumi because he is busy producing a
global-warming doc.

After producers said earlier this month they wanted DiCaprio, some 5,000 people
signed a petition calling for a Middle Eastern actor to play the Muslim
philosopher.

"Casting DiCaprio rewrites history," the petition's author Valerie Janovic
states.

But DiCaprio - vacationing in the Bahamas with his latest model, Nina Agdal -
isn't interested in the Rumi role in any case.

"He hasn't been asked," a source close to DiCaprio told me. "But regardless he
will not be pursuing the project . . . He's finishing his forthcoming
climate-change documentary."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 14, 2016 Sunday

Chum and get it! Beware: Sharks on rise off East Coast

BYLINE: and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 367 words


We're gonna need a bigger coast.

This summer has seen a tidal wave of shark sightings in local waters, including
footage last week of a school of toothy predators devouring a wounded dolphin
just yards from a Jersey beach and a young boy reeling in a 200-pound monster
swirling in the shallows.

The shark surge is not just because of more people with cellphones on the sand,
experts say.

"There are definitely more sharks in the area," Paul Sieswerda, former curator
of the New York Aquarium in Coney Island, told The Post. A perfect storm of
successful shark conservation efforts, less-polluted waters, and warmer ocean
temperatures from climate change has made our shores more welcoming to bait fish
like menhaden - and the sharks who love them.

"It's kind of like the menhaden are the wildebeests of the African plains -
everything likes eating them and there are more every year," Sieswerda said.

He said the huge schools of menhaden, a k a bunker, also attract seals, which is
a favorite of great white sharks.

Local waters are also attracting species like blue, dusky, mako, sandbar and
sand tiger sharks, which all range from 6 to 11 feet long.

"Warm temperatures are coming earlier in the year to the cooler waters off the
coast and are lasting longer into the fall," said George Burgess, director of
the International Shark Attack File at the University of Florida.

"Sharks are now capable of moving farther north up the coastline and in greater
abundance," he explained. "With that, you have the inevitable increase of
potential conflict between humans and sharks."

Social media is filled with such close encounters recently.

On Aug. 2, two South Jersey teens reeled in a 6-foot shark while fishing on
Ventnor City beach. A few days earlier, a video showed anglers in Long Beach
Island also reeling in a large shark.

More footage from Beach Haven in late July shows 13-year-old Gianni Mandile
landing a 200-pound shark from the beach. The boy and his dad, Joe, are seen
dragging the massive fish to shore and exposing its rows of razor-sharp teeth.

There have been 21 attacks so far this year in the US, but none off New York or
New Jersey.

mlicea@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHARK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

Run, Schneidy, Run

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 348 words


Eric Schneiderman should just declare he's running for governor in 2018. The
state attorney general is already devoting so many public resources to politics,
instead of actual AG work, that making it official is the only honest approach.

It would also pave the way for someone who really wants to do the AG's job

Look at Schneiderman's high-profile targets: ExxonMobil. Donald Trump. Companies
in disputes with labor: like Domino's and the Gap. He's also fought with
Citizens United, which has shined a light on Hillary Clinton's abuses. All are
villains to the left.

On Tuesday, Schneiderman announced a fresh probe of the Trump Foundation over a
$25,000 donation to Florida's attorney general. A charity can't give to a
political campaign, the AG says. "I'm just following the rules, like with any
other charity."

Any charity, that is, except the Clinton Foundation and its offshoots.
Schneiderman gave the Clintons a pass on even just disclosing the names of
foreign contributors, as state law requires. Yet his war with Citizens Union is
over his demand for its  donors' names.

Schneiderman's Exxon climate-change probe is just as political. Sunday, The Post
cited an e-mail from Ted White, a partner of rich enviro-activist and Exxon foe
Tom Steyer, noting the AG sought "a call with Tom regarding support for his race
for governor . . . regarding Exxon case."

Was Schneiderman squeezing Steyer for cash for a 2018 bid based on his Exxon
probe?

Monday, the Daily Caller reported the AG snagged thousands from "monied
individuals with ties to lawyers and environmentalists" backing his probe. Major
greenie George Soros and his family gave close to $300,000. David Einhorn,
another "clean energy" investor, forked over at least $122,300.

On Wednesday, a House hearing focused on the AG's defiance of subpoenas it sent
him for info about the probe. Would that info show his true motives?

Schneiderman insists he's not running for gov. But his actions say otherwise.
It's past time for him to either admit he's a candidate - or drop the politics
and focus on his job.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

Not going to get easier for Cubs 2016 WORLD SERIES

BYLINE: Ken Davidoff

SECTION: Late City Final Replate; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 652 words


CLEVELAND - In the Division Series, the Cubs won their first two games and then
lost one to the Giants.

In the Championship Series, the Cubs won their first game and then lost one to
the Dodgers.

In the World Series, the Cubs lost the opener.

Even a climate-change denier would acknowledge that pattern.

Does it mean anything? We'll know a lot more after Wednesday night's Game 2. Yet
after getting dominated by Corey Kluber in Game 1, with ace Jon Lester suffering
a 6-0 loss to the Indians in this highly anticipated kickoff, the Cubs - who
built such a comfortable regular-season lead for themselves that they spent much
of the summer on cruise control - find themselves in a jam.

"We've been down before," Cubs catcher David Ross said. "This is a resilient
group."

Said Cubs manager Joe Maddon: "I'm a believer. I know we're going to be fine."

This is a polished if young Cubs group. They're going to say the right things at
times like this. We'll see whether they can do the right things at times like
this.

Last week, the only "before" to which Ross reasonably could have been referring,
the Cubs fell behind the Dodgers, 2-1, in the NLCS. They responded by winning
three straight games and the franchise's first pennant since 1945.

And that marked just the second day in 2016 that they spent looking up at
someone. On April 8, the Cubs fell to 3-1, a game behind the 4-0 Pirates in the
NL Central. They won on April 9 and never looked back.

This test, their third time in a hole, will be the hardest so far. These Indians
have been carrying a "team of destiny" vibe for the bulk of this season, a vibe
that gained traction when LeBron James and the Cavaliers won the championship
rings that they formally received next door at Quicken Loans Arena on Tuesday
night. They are now an impressive 8-1 in this offseason. While the Cubs arguably
own the edge in overall talent, the Indians have the superior bullpen and the
manager comparison between the Cubs' Joe Maddon and the Indians' Terry Francona
runs about even.

And on Tuesday, the Indians claimed the advantage in perhaps the most important
category of all: Aces. Whereas Kluber struck out nine while going six-plus
shutout innings, the first of what could be three starts in this series, the
more experienced Lester imploded in the decisive first inning after retiring the
first two batters. That the meltdown emanated from Francisco Lindor's theft of
second base following a single escaped the attention of no one who knows that
Lester hates throwing over to the bag. The lefty subsequently walked Mike Napoli
and Carlos Santana to load the bases and, after Jose Ramirez broke the 0-0 tie
with a swinging-bunt single towards third base, hit Brandon Guyer to bring home
a second run.

"[I] just didn't have the best command to come out and start the game. Playoff
game, that's all they need," Lester said. "Two walks can't happen, especially
after two quick outs. I don't care about the base hit. The two walks after that.
Put the ball in play. Make them earn it. I didn't do it."

When Andrew Miller relieved Kluber in the seventh, the Cubs flirted with and
faltered against the former Yankee, failing to cash in on a bases-loaded, no-out
threat in the seventh and leaving men on first and third in the eighth.

Opportunity will knock again for the Cubs. They have the Game 2 advantage, on
paper, with Jake Arrieta going against drone enthusiast Trevor Bauer. Miller's
46-pitch work shift should limit him to a brief Game 2 appearance, if he can
pitch at all.

Then again, the Cubs are now facing an Indians team that has repeatedly shrugged
off adversity and thwarted logic. That is trying to end its own 67-year drought,
a short period compared only to the Cubs' 107-year drought.

What, you thought it would be easy for the Cubs once they got this far? Not a
ghost, or a goat, of a chance.

kdavidoff

@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KRIS BRYANT. (USA TODAY SPorts)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

Not going to get easier for Cubs 2016 WORLD SERIES

BYLINE: Ken Davidoff

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 647 words


CLEVELAND - In the Division Series, the Cubs won their first two games and then
lost one to the Giants.

In the Championship Series, the Cubs won their first game and then lost one to
the Dodgers. In the World Series, the Cubs lost the opener.

Even a climate-change denier would acknowledge that pattern.

Does it mean anything? We'll know a lot more after Wednesday night's Game 2. Yet
after getting dominated by Corey Kluber in Game 1, with ace Jon Lester suffering
a 6-0 loss to the Indians in this highly anticipated kickoff, the Cubs - who
built such a comfortable regular-season lead for themselves that they spent much
of the summer on cruise control - find themselves in a jam.

This marks the second time this month the Cubs have trailed a series; they fell
behind the Dodgers, 2-1, in the NLCS, before winning the next three to capture
their first pennant since 1945. In the entirety of the regular season, the Cubs
spent just one day trailing anyone. On April 8, they suffered their first loss
of the season, 3-2 to the Diamondbacks, to drop to 3-1 on the season, a game
behind the 4-0 Pirates in the NL Central. April 9 produced a Cubs win in Arizona
and a Pirates loss to the Reds, and the Cubs either shared or owned sole
occupancy of the penthouse the rest of the way.

The postseason tests the mettle of virtually every team, and the Cubs passed
their first test last week in the NLCS. This one, though, will be harder.

These Indians have been carrying a "team of destiny" vibe for the bulk of this
season, a vibe that gained traction when LeBron James and the Cavaliers won the
championship rings that they formally received next door at Quicken Loans Arena
on Tuesday night. They are now an impressive 8-1 in this offseason. While the
Cubs arguably own the edge in overall talent, the Indians have the superior
bullpen and the manager comparison between the Cubs' Joe Maddon and the Indians'
Terry Francona runs about even.

And on Tuesday, the Indians claimed the advantage in perhaps the most important
category of all: Aces. Kluber, who remained largely healthy while his high-end
rotation teammates Carlos Carrasco and Danny Salazar went down with serious
injuries (Salazar is active for the Fall Classic), struck out nine while going
six-plus innings, allowing no runs, four hits and no walks.

Lester, who possesses far more October experience than Kluber, imploded in the
decisive first inning after retiring the first two batters. That the meltdown
emanated from Francisco Lindor's theft of second base following a single escaped
the attention of no one who knows that Lester hates throwing over to the bag.
The lefty walked Mike Napoli and Carlos Santana to load the bases and, after
Jose Ramirez broke the 0-0 tie with a swinging-bunt single towards third base,
hit Brandon Guyer to bring home a second run.

When Kluber's 88th pitch of the night turned into a Ben Zobrist single in the
seventh, Francona managed aggressively, again, turning to Andrew Miller to go
after the returning Kyle Schwarber. While Miller created the most drama of his
heretofore boringly sublime month, loading the bases with none out in the
seventh and putting Cubs on first and third with two outs in the eighth, the
Cubs ultimately fell short to the lanky lefty both times, with David Ross
striking out to end the seventh and Schwarber to finish the eighth.

Opportunity will knock again for the Cubs. They have the Game 2 advantage, on
paper, with Jake Arrieta going against drone enthusiast Trevor Bauer. Miller's
46-pitch work shift should limit him to a brief Game 2 appearance, if he can
pitch at all.

Then again, the Cubs are now facing an Indians team that has repeatedly shrugged
off adversity and thwarted logic. That is trying to end its own 67-year drought,
a short period compared only to the Cubs' 107-year drought.

kdavidoff

@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KRIS BRYANT. (USA TODAY Sports)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

2016 World Series Nothing comes easy It's only going to get more difficult for
Cubs

BYLINE: Ken Davidoff

SECTION: Sports Extra; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 683 words


CLEVELAND - In the Division Series, the Cubs won their first two games and then
lost one to the Giants.

In the Championship Series, the Cubs won their first game and then lost one to
the Dodgers.

In the World Series, the Cubs lost the opener.

Even a climate-change denier would acknowledge that pattern.

Does it mean anything? We'll know a lot more after Wednesday night's Game 2. Yet
after getting dominated by Corey Kluber in Game 1, with ace Jon Lester suffering
a 6-0 loss to the Indians in this highly anticipated kickoff, the Cubs - who
built such a comfortable regular-season lead for themselves that they spent much
of the summer on cruise control - find themselves in a jam.

This marks the second time this month the Cubs have trailed a series; they fell
behind the Dodgers, 2-1, in the NLCS, before winning the next three to capture
their first pennant since 1945. In the entirety of the regular season, the Cubs
spent just one day trailing anyone. On April 8, they suffered their first loss
of the season, 3-2 to the Diamondbacks, to drop to 3-1 on the season, a game
behind the 4-0 Pirates in the NL Central. April 9 produced a Cubs win in Arizona
and a Pirates loss to the Reds, and the Cubs either shared or owned sole
occupancy of the penthouse the rest of the way.

The postseason tests the mettle of virtually every team, and the Cubs passed
their first test last week in the NLCS. This one, though, will be harder.

These Indians have been carrying a "team of destiny" vibe for the bulk of this
season, a vibe that gained traction when LeBron James and the Cavaliers won the
championship rings that they formally received next door at Quicken Loans Arena
on Tuesday night. They are now an impressive 8-1 in this offseason. While the
Cubs arguably own the edge in overall talent, the Indians have the superior
bullpen and the manager comparison between the Cubs' Joe Maddon and the Indians'
Terry Francona runs about even.

And on Tuesday, the Indians claimed the advantage in perhaps the most important
category of all: Aces. Kluber, who remained largely healthy while his high-end
rotation teammates Carlos Carrasco and Danny Salazar went down with serious
injuries (Salazar is active for the Fall Classic), struck out nine while going
six-plus innings, allowing no runs, four hits and no walks.

Lester, who possesses far more October experience than Kluber, imploded in the
decisive first inning after retiring the first two batters. That the meltdown
emanated from Francisco Lindor's theft of second base following a single escaped
the attention of no one who knows that Lester hates throwing over to the bag.
The lefty walked Mike Napoli and Carlos Santana to load the bases and, after
Jose Ramirez broke the 0-0 tie with a swinging-bunt single towards third base,
hit Brandon Guyer to bring home a second run.

When Kluber's 88th pitch of the night turned into a Ben Zobrist single in the
seventh, Francona managed aggressively, again, turning to Andrew Miller to go
after the returning Kyle Schwarber. While Miller created the most drama of his
heretofore boringly sublime month, loading the bases with none out in the
seventh and putting Cubs on first and third with two outs in the eighth, the
Cubs ultimately fell short to the lanky lefty both times, with David Ross
striking out to end the seventh and Schwarber to finish the eighth. And Roberto
Perez's three-run homer in the eighth, his second blast of the night, put the
game out of reach.

Opportunity will knock again for the Cubs. They have the Game 2 advantage, on
paper, with Jake Arrieta going against drone enthusiast Trevor Bauer. Miller's
46-pitch work shift should limit him to a brief Game 2 appearance, if he can
pitch at all.

Then again, the Cubs are now facing an Indians team that has repeatedly shrugged
off adversity and thwarted logic. That is trying to end its own 67-year drought,
a short period compared only to the Cubs' 107-year drought.

What, you thought it would be easy for the Cubs once they got this far? Not a
ghost, or a goat, of a chance.

kdavidoff@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: feeling down: Kris Bryant reacts after striking out during the third
inning of the Cubs' 6-0 loss to the Indians in Game 1 of the World Series. Jon
Lester (right) reacts after giving up a hit in the sixth. (Getty Images (2))

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 9, 2016 Friday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by ERIC FETTMANN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 676 words


From the right: Greens Spooked by Trump EPA Pick

Liberals and environmentalists "have gone into a tizzy" over President-elect
Donald Trump's choice of Oklahoma Attorney General (and climate-change skeptic)
Scott Pruitt to head the Environmental Protection Agency. House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi demands his defeat "for the sake of the air we breathe." But Fred
Barnes at The Weekly Standard says Pruitt's "actual offense" is that he's
"challenged the EPA's practice of going far beyond its authority to attack the
energy industry and thus affect practically every industry in the country." And
that "he's too qualified. He knows environmental law as well or better than" his
critics, "particularly its limits."

Legal scholar: Time for Libs to Stop Venerating FDR?

Given "the most salient issues for the American left today, the issues that
really motivate the grass roots," David Bernstein at The Volokh Conspiracy asks
whether the time has come for Franklin Roosevelt's "star to fall." Consider:
"FDR refused to support federal anti-lynching legislation" (unlike his GOP
predecessors). In fact, "FDR's apologists . . . aren't able to come up with any
substantial evidence" he "cared about civil rights for African Americans in
general." Nor is it "widely known that the Roosevelt administration engaged in
the largest mass deportation of immigrants in American history," expelling
"perhaps up to two million" Mexican residents. And "FDR was not willing to spend
any significant political capital to help Jewish refugees" from Nazi
persecution. So "perhaps a revocation of the virtual sainthood FDR still enjoys
is in order."

Culture critic: Merkel's Burqa Ban About-Face

Last year, writes Bruce Bawer in City Journal, German Chancellor Angela Merkel
"slammed" multiculturalism and promised to cut immigration yet kept "the
floodgates open" for Muslim refugees, calling it "a historic test for Europe."
But the past year has seen a rapid rise in refugee-related crime, including
murders, gang violence and brutal sexual assaults there. And now "the tough
version of Merkel [has] reappeared." She's now called for "a law against the
burqa," arguing that "the 'full veil' is 'not appropriate' " in Germany. But
"before one accepts the idea that Merkel has actually turned over a new leaf,
keep in mind that she's been playing a double game throughout her tenure." So
"if German voters truly desire serious reform on this front, they should seek
new leadership."

Harvard study: Trump Did Get Heavy Negative Press

A new study from Harvard University's Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and
Public Policy confirms what Trump was saying all along about "how deeply
negative the media coverage of him was," reports Chris Cilizza in The Washington
Post. Trump's "coverage was negative from the start and never came close to
entering positive territory." And "the negativity of the coverage was broadly
consistent across each of the [10] outlets" surveyed - including, surprisingly,
Fox. But Cilizza suggests Trump's own words were at least partly responsible:
"Sort of like being surprised that you attract bears after you smeared yourself
with honey in the middle of the forest."

PC watch: Today's Most Insane PC College Courses

The Young America's Foundation, a national student group, has compiled a list of
100 politically correct courses; at Independent Journal Review, Antonia Okafor
describes some of the most "absurd." The University of Florida offers "Black
Hair," which explores "the textures, styles and meanings of Black hair as they
relate to identity and power." South Carolina students can study "Ecofeminism,"
or "the connections between oppression of women and oppression of nature." From
Swarthmore comes "Queering God: Feminist and Queer Theology," which "seeks to
stretch the limits of gendering and sexing the divine," while Williams offers
"Racial Capitalism," which explores how "capitalist economies have 'always and
everywhere' relied upon forms of racist domination and exclusion." - Compiled by
Eric Fettmann

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

STEALING BEAUTY Brighten up your end-of-summer routine with fresh looks from
music's biggest stars

BYLINE: and MOLLY SHEA and TASHARA JONES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 599 words


Ariana Grande's purple pout. Rihanna's '90s It-girl bob. Summer's hottest
singers aren't just burning up the charts - they're kicking off major beauty
trends, too. Here, top makeup artists and hairstylists break down their go-to
warm-weather looks.

Ariana Grande's purple reign

Ditch the "play up your eyes or your lips" rule - summer has been all about
going big on both, using the same hue.

To get Grande's baby-doll eyes, MAC senior artist Gregory Arlt says to start by
layering shadows. Brush a lavender powder, like MAC Creme de Violet ($16 at
MACCosmetics.com), over the whole lid, and a darker shade (try "Nocturnal," $16
at MACCosmetics.com) in the crease. Line eyes with a sheer pencil (MAC
Powerpoint Eye Pencil in "Duck," $17 at MACCosmetics.com, is "the perfect dark
pencil if you're afraid of black," says Arlt), curl lashes and swipe on a few
coats of a lengthening mascara, like MAC InstaCurl lash ($23 at
MACCosmetics.com).

On lips, Arlt says, "she's wearing a combo platter of her two MAC Viva Glam
colors"- Viva Glam Ariana Grande 1 (out now for $17 at MACCosmetics.com), and
Viva Glam Ariana Grande 2 (out online Thursday). Fill lips first with a plum
pencil, then use a lip brush to apply a thin veil of 1, then 2.

Rihanna's lovely lob

RiRi's Billboard Music Awards lob is timeless, but its wavy texture brings it
straight into summer '16. For the same effect, Jorge Luis, artistic director of
Prive by Laurent D Salon, suggets starting with a half-inch curling iron, and
curl small sections of hair in different directions, leaving the ends out.
Follow up with a fingertip's worth of balm (Living Proof Amp2 Instant Texture
Volumizer, $25 at Sephora.com) to separate, and add shine with an oil-based
spray, like Bumble and Bumble Dry Oil Finishing Spray ($34 at
BumbleAndBumble.com).

To keep the '90s vibe going, finish with a matte nude lipstick (Stila Stay All
Day Lipstick in Palais, $22 at Sephora.com).

Halsey's moody blues

The "Closer" singer's electric-blue eyes are a "modern take on a classic
cat-eye," says Sarah Lucero, global executive director of creative artistry at
Stila.

She says to start by coating lashes in mascara - it'll prevent annoying black
smudges later on - with a lengthening formula, like Stila HUGE Extreme Lash
Mascara ($23 at StilaCosmetics.com). Then swipe a line of black liquid liner,
like Stila Stay All Day in Black ($22 at StilaCosmetics.com), tight along the
lashes to shape the eye. Once that's dry, draw on a thick layer of light
turquoise liner (Stila Smudge Stick in Turquoise, $22 at StilaCosmetics.com),
tapering out into a cat eye. Using a paler color, like Halsey does, "makes [the]
eyelid bigger and brighter," Lucero says.

Pair with luminous skin (Estée Lauder's Estée Edit Radiance Activator, $55 at
Sephora.com, adds extra glow) and naked lips to let your peepers really pop.

Britney's 'Gimme More' waves

Much like the pop star herself, Brit's casual waves - seen here at the 2016
Billboard Music Awards - are back, and everywhere you turn this summer.

Start with a volumnizing shampoo (Pai-Shau Volume Ritual Opulent Hair Cleanser,
$28 at Pai-Shau.com) to give hair bounce. Then, says Luis, use a paddle brush
while blow-drying, lifting hair up and blasting roots for extra volume. Twist
sections of dried hair around an inch-wide curling iron, curling in opposite
directions (to avoid "Farrah Fawcett hair," says Luis) and leaving the ends
straight. Finish with a dollop of texturizing balm (Hairstory Hair Balm, $36 at
ShopHairStory.com), and give your head a final shake to break up curls.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Rihanna. [Lumeimages/PacificCoastNews]-Britney Spears. [Todd
Williamson/Getty Images]-Ariana Grande. [Splash News]-Halsey.
[@iamhalsey/Instagram]-Product shots by Zandy Mangold.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 18, 2016 Sunday

Party over for O & Co.

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 692 words


So this is how it ends - in a whimper wrapped in self-pity and recriminations.
With President Obama on the defensive at his final press conference and Hillary
Clinton's last campaign event resembling a wake, the Democratic Party is limping
off the stage and into the political winter.

It was supposed to sit atop the national power pyramid for decades, a new
paradigm of liberals, progressives, the young, the old, the unions and blacks,
Latinos, Muslims and Asians.

The torch would be passed from Obama to Clinton, a liberal Supreme Court would
vastly expand executive power and the regulatory state would enforce
climate-change orthodoxy on all industry and elitist dictates on every American.
Globalism would be the new patriotism.

But a funny thing happened on the way to one-party dominance: The people who
work for a living said no, hell no. Their revolt brings Donald Trump to the
White House amid hopes of a revival of the economy and of the American spirit.

Thoroughly beaten, the Dems are at their lowest point in nearly a century. From
the White House to Congress to statehouses, they are on the outside looking in.

Their punishment was well-deserved, as demonstrated by Obama and Clinton. Full
of excuses and blaming everyone except themselves, their closing acts proved it
is time for them to go.

They have nothing new to offer, with their vision of the future limited to
larger doses of the same failing medicine and their intolerance for disagreement
showing they would never learn from their mistakes. Their bad ideas had run
their disastrous course.

Yet instead of analyzing what went wrong and trying to find new organizing
principles, party leaders and activists are pointing fingers at the FBI and
Russia, and engaging in a mad bid to overturn Trump's Electoral College victory.

Because they are doomed to fail, we could be witnessing the death throes of the
Democratic Party as we know it. With Obama and the Clintons encouraging the
attempted theft of an election they lost and failing to denounce intimidation
and death threats against Trump electoral voters, most Americans have reason to
consider the Dems a dead letter.

Yet the final verdict on 2016 depends on Trump's performance as president. If he
delivers "jobs, jobs, jobs" and peace-through-strength abroad, he will forge a
new governing consensus and remake the political landscape.

While it's too soon to know what exactly Trumpism stands for, it's clear that
many Republican orthodoxies and special-interest debts are being tossed
overboard. His Cabinet nominees are incredibly accomplished individuals who come
to their new jobs without the burdens of past Washington gridlock. If he can
attract centrist-minded Dems, some of whom he is courting, Trump has a chance to
build a pragmatic coalition that keeps faith with mainstream America.

The obstacles, of course, are many. Much of the Islamic world is on fire and the
great powers are moving ever closer to confrontation in Europe and Asia.

Obama leaves office with Russia, Iran and China eating our lunch, with the
Chinese theft of a Navy drone a goodbye insult. The unspeakable horror of Syria
and the rise of Islamic State will forever be part of the 44th president's
legacy.

So, too, will be domestic divisions, which grew more stark and bitter in the
last eight years. We are now perilously close to a boil, and that, too, falls
partially on Obama's shoulders given his fear-mongering about Trump.

Against that dark reality, it is reasonable to worry the nation is on the verge
of a crack-up. But there is also a possibility that America is on the verge of a
new greatness.

It's up to Trump. The ultimate outsider and a historic disrupter, he bears some
responsibility for the polarization. But victory presents him with an
opportunity to make government work for the people, instead of the other way
around.

He is off to a great start and must stay focused to avoid falling down the
rabbit holes of petty disputes. America needs the change he promised and he
needs to commit every ounce of his being into keeping that promise. If he
succeeds, so will the nation.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESIDENT OBAMA. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 6, 2016 Wednesday

Primitive past nails Hill

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 698 words


Hillary Clinton might want to brush up on the life of Woodrow Wilson. The two
have a lot in common now that the tectonic plates are shifting under them.

Wilson is the former president of the United States and of Princeton University
and now a poster child for historic revision. His racist policies were popular a
century ago, and were dismissed by most historians as footnotes to his
otherwise-progressive politics.

But a new generation of liberals is rewriting the standards, and after demands
from some students and faculty, Princeton might remove Wilson's name from its
public policy school.

Clinton, meanwhile, finds herself in a similar pickle over how she defended her
husband for years against sexual allegations. The new climate, especially the
heightened focus on campus sexual violence, makes Hillary's past conduct look
positively anti-feminist.

She called the world's most famous intern, Monica Lewinsky, "a narcissistic
loony toon" and defended her husband by calling the charges the fruit of a "vast
right-wing conspiracy." Lewinsky later denounced Hillary's "impulse to blame the
woman."

Others who had affairs with Bill Clinton, or accused him of unwanted advances,
also criticized Hillary for defending him. That she would stand by her man to
save their marriage and careers was never appealing, but it was more widely
acceptable then than now.

These days, Bill Clinton's conduct would get him booted by any large corporation
or organization, a reality that changes the way many people now see the
Clintons. Somewhat like Woodrow Wilson, or maybe Bill Cosby, they resemble
people from another era who behaved in ways now regarded as primitive and
outrageous.

One result is that the past is popping up on the campaign trail, with both
Clintons confronted by voters and journalists. It's an ominous sign for her
candidacy, one she can't wave away by blaming Donald Trump.

Sure, Trump got the ball rolling when, after Hillary charged him with having a
"penchant for sexism," he hit back with typical ferocity. "If Hillary thinks she
can unleash her husband, with his terrible record of women abuse, while playing
the women's card on me, she's wrong," Trump said. He called Bill Clinton "fair
game," and the idea caught fire.

The Washington Post ran a remarkable "fact-checker" column headlined "A guide to
the allegations of Bill Clinton's womanizing." The paper named five women who
said they had consensual affairs with Clinton during his marriage to Hillary,
including Lewinsky and Gennifer Flowers.

It also named three other women who charged him with an "unwanted sexual
encounter," including Paula Jones, who claimed Clinton exposed himself when he
was governor of Arkansas. As the Post helpfully noted, "She later filed a
sexual-harassment suit, and it was during a deposition in that suit that Clinton
initially denied having sexual relations with Lewinsky."

Clinton, impeached by the House, later settled Jones' suit for $850,000 and was
disbarred by Arkansas and the Supreme Court for lying under oath.

Yet the list was incomplete, and the online version of the Post's "Fact Checker"
includes an update. It notes that "many many readers have also urged us to
include a reference to Clinton's post-presidential travels on aircraft owned by
convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein." The update cites a trip that included a
pornography actress who gave massages, and says that neither the actress nor
Bill Clinton would comment.

None of this is to suggest that Hillary's campaign is doomed, but the sordid
past can't help her in a general election that probably won't have much room for
error. Under most scenarios, she needs young voters, especially women, to turn
out in numbers similar to what they did for President Obama. That was a heavy
lift even before a new generation of voters got a free history lesson.

The bigger problem is that her past reinforces contemporary doubts about her
integrity. With 60 percent of voters in swing states saying she is not
trustworthy because of e-mail scandals and other revelations, the last thing she
needs is for the public to be reminded that dishonesty is a Clinton family
tradition.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Cosby, Woodrow Wilson and Hillary Rodham Clinton as "Flintstones"
characters. [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 15, 2016 Friday

Polar ice crap

BYLINE: and Sara Stewart

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 386 words


This just in: The biggest threat to the ecosystem of the Arctic is  rapacious
real-estate developers. Yes, despite being set at climate change's Ground Zero,
this dim Rob Schneider vehicle never hints at the phenomenon - instead sending
its hero (Schneider), a polar bear who can speak "human," to New York to save
his kingdom from a greedy condo honcho (Ken Jeong).

But that's just the tip of the iceberg (sorry) when it comes to the shortcomings
of "Norm of the North," which is betting viewers either won't remember this
summer's "Minions" or won't care that its trio of pill-shaped, gibberish-spewing
lemmings are furry facsimiles of those little yellow guys. And hey, for the
under-three set, that's probably true.

Norm, a softie unable to bring himself to hunt prey, is annoyed at the influx of
camera-toting tourists to his icy home, though his buddies claim keeping the
humans entranced is the best way to ensure they protect the wildlife. But when a
model home shows up on the ice along with a real estate saleswoman (Heather
Graham), Norm and his minion - er, lemming - buddies follow it back to Manhattan
to convince her boss not to build there, and to find his grandfather (Colm
Meaney), who's gone missing.

If I wasn't already convinced of this movie's obnoxiousness, its rendering of
Graham's character sealed the deal. There is no conceivable reason this single
mom, and well-intentioned underling to Jeong's psycho boss, needed to have her
cleavage notably outlined. It's a small detail and yet a tellingly lazy/sexist
one. (And in a world where the main female "Force Awakens" character is being
left out of action figure sets, sexism in kids' fare still, tiresomely, bears
mentioning).

Also apparently plaguing the Arctic: a severe twerking outbreak. It's become de
rigeur, in non-Pixar animated films, to have your characters regularly bust out
moves, and to wrap things up with a dance party. I'm not opposed to a little
pop, judiciously applied, but in this manic, brainless story it really
underscores a line from Norm's wise old seagull pal: "It's easier to distract
ourselves with food and entertainment than pay attention to the real problems."

MOVIE REVIEW

Norm ofthe North

Brain freeze.

Running time: 86 minutes. Rated PG (mildly scary sequences). Now playing.

(One star)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Norm's trio of lemmings is a "Minions" rip-off.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 20, 2016 Wednesday

Davos kisses Leo

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 86 words


Leo DiCaprio took a break from late-night clubbing with Rihanna in Paris, where
spies saw them kiss, to accept an award at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland, on Tuesday. The star of "The Revenant" was honored for his work
battling climate change. DiCaprio also pledged "$15 million in new commitments"
from his foundation at the Crystal Award ceremony "to fast-track cutting-edge
sustainability and conservation projects around the world." Will.i.am, Olafur
Eliasson and Yao Chen also accepted awards.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 2, 2016 Tuesday

Bahamas earful from Mike

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 175 words


While rumors build about a possible Michael Bloomberg run at the presidency, the
former New York City mayor is giving a lecture to the 1-percenters at the
private Bahamas resort Lyford Cay on Feb. 13. Residents, who are being asked to
submit questions, include  Sean Connery, Canadian clothing magnate Peter Nygard,
Greek shipping tycoon George Livanos, the Bacardi family and hedge funder Louis
Bacon. Insiders say it costs $50,000 to join the community, plus $10,000 a year
in dues. An invitation sent to residents and members doesn't specify what
Bloomberg plans to talk about, but it does list his achievements as a
businessman, mayor, philanthropist and his 2014 appointment to be the UN
secretary-general's special envoy for cities and climate change. And if he goes
on too long, free wine will be available. In January, it was revealed Bloomberg,
whose net worth is estimated by Forbes at $36.4 billion (eighth on the list of
richest Americans), is again exploring an independent presidential candidacy.
His rep declined to comment Monday night.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

Tina: Isn't it rich?

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 87 words


Tina Fey (above) felt the Oscars were too much "Hollywood bulls - - t" this
year. "Halfway through, I was like, 'This is some real Hollywood bulls - - t,' "
she dished to Howard Stern. "Everyone's telling me, like, what to do, and it
was, like, people are yelling at me about rape and corporate greed, but really
it's climate change, and I was like, 'Guys, pick a lane. Hey everyone, we're
going to fix everything tonight. And also, you're all rich. Why are you yelling
at me about corporate greed? You're all so rich.' "

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tina Fey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 4, 2016 Monday

12-year switch Grey's pursuit of DiCaprio dates back to '04

BYLINE: Claire Atkinson

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 537 words


It took 12 years, but Paramount Pictures boss Brad Grey finally got his man.

Hollywood's hottest actor Leo DiCaprio announced last week that his production
company, Appian Way, was breaking up with Warner Bros. after more than a decade
and moving over to Paramount.

While the news was the talk of Hollywood, few knew that Grey has been working
behind the scenes for years to woo the Oscar-winning actor and well-known
playboy.

The two men first worked together on Martin Scorsese's "The Departed" of 2004,
which helped consolidate DiCaprio's leading man reputation. They have since
partnered on other movies, including Scorsese's "Shutter Island" and "The Wolf
of Wall Street."

Despite obvious chemistry and on-again, off-again talks, Grey didn't seal the
deal until after DiCaprio nabbed his first Best Actor Oscar in late February for
his performance in "The Revenant."

"They started talking again after Leo won the Oscar, but he also came to Brad's
birthday party at Sunset Towers on the Golden Globes weekend," said a source
close to the two parties, explaining how Grey worked to nail the deal. "This is
a great coup for Paramount."

Indeed, the news is a big shot in the arm to the Viacom-owned studio, which Grey
has run for more than a decade. DiCaprio's deal will give Paramount a
three-year, first-look deal at his projects.

Those include four already under way:

n  "The Devil in the White City," an adaptation of the non-fiction book by Erik
Larson about the dramatic events surrounding the 1893 Chicago World's Fair.

n  "Sandcastle Empire," a book about the world on the brink due to climate
change.

n  An untitled movie about the Volkswagen emissions scandal.

n  A TV series based on a biography of famed aviator Charles Lindbergh.

Paramount, which is heading into the critical summer movie season, has had its
fair share of ups and downs. After Paramount took the No. 1 spot in 2011, its
share of the domestic box office has trailed that of the other big studios -
Warner Bros., Sony, Universal, 21st Century Fox and Disney - for four years
straight. Paramount ranked sixth in 2015, with just 5.9 percent of the market.

So far this year, Paramount is in third place, with 10.9 percent market share,
thanks to movies including "Daddy's Home," which has taken in $85.4 million
since its release on Christmas Day.

But Paramount is in rebuilding mode after several years of cost-cutting by
Viacom took a toll on both its film output and profitability.

Revenue for the studio fell 23 percent in the year ended Sept. 30, while
operating income was down 46 percent.

Meanwhile, Viacom Chief Executive Philippe Dauman, who is feeling the heat from
shareholders to boost the stock price, is seeking to sell a minority stake in
Paramount by June.

Bidders include mini-studio Lionsgate, Amazon, China's Dalian Wanda and cable
giant Comcast, which owns the Universal film studio, sources told The Post.

David Ellison's Skydance, fresh off raising $700 million in new financing, is
also interested, Variety reported.

21st Century Fox has eyed Paramount as well, but sources said it isn't keen on
holding a passive stake.

Reps declined to comment.

catkinson@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Long bromance: Paramount's Brad Grey (far right) began his successful
wooing of Leo DiCaprio-who is backing a project based on "The Devil in the White
City" best seller - four years before this photo at the 2008 premiere of
"Revolutionary Road." [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 7, 2016 Thursday

Election 2016 Bx. jeer for Ted Charter kids' walkout vow prevents visit

BYLINE: Jennifer Bain , Carl Campanile and Bob Fredericks

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 432 words


Ted Cruz was set to talk about education and the value of charter schools
Wednesday at the Bronx Lighthouse College Preparatory Academy - until the
school's largely minority student body asked the principal to cancel the event,
sources told The Post.

A charter-school source said the Texas senator agreed to back out after hearing
of opposition from students, parents and teachers.

"Cruz is extremely unpopular with the students and families who attend the
school," the ­insider said. "It would have been a mess."

The source also said it wasn't a good idea to hold a campaign event at school
during the heat of a presidential campaign. Such events are barred at
traditional city public schools.

Cruz is a staunch charter-school supporter. His wife, Heidi, serves on the board
of the Yes Prep charter school in Texas.

Cruz donated his legislative salary to that school during the 2013 federal
government shutdown.

The Bronx students had written a note to Principal Alix Duggins threatening to
walk out during Cruz's scheduled appearance at 2:30 p.m., which was announced by
his campaign Tuesday night as he was winning the Wisconsin primary.

The campaign sent out an updated schedule later in the evening saying that the
event had been canceled - without explanation - and that Cruz would meet with
Bronx clergy­men at a Parkchester restaurant instead.

In their letter to Duggins, who could not be reached Wednesday for comment,
students referred to Cruz as "misogynistic, homophobic and racist" and called
his potential presence on their campus "offensive."

Duggins and Khori Whittaker, Lighthouse Academies' CEO, expressed sympathy with
the students and agreed that the event should be canceled.

Public-school supporters,, including teachers-union reps, had also planned to
protest Cruz's appearance.

Meanwhile, Cruz couldn't even muster 100 attendees for the campaign event in
Parkchester with Democratic state Sen. Ruben Diaz Sr., a Christian minister and
fellow conservative.

Cruz visited the Sabrosura Chinese-Dominican restaurant, where he met with about
70 ministers affiliated with Diaz.

But only a dozen voters turned up - and two of them were tossed out after
screaming about the Texas senator's hard-line stance on immigration.

"He is anti-immigrant. He denies climate change. He's a right-wing bigot and
he's not welcomed here," said protester Rebel Diaz, who is not a relative of
Sen. Diaz.

At the event, Cruz doubled down on his assault on "New York values," rebranding
them as "liberal Democratic values" and linking them to rival Donald Trump.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Texan Ted Cruz autographs a cowboy hat for a Bronx supporter Wednesday,
a bright spot on the senator's bad day. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 19, 2016 Tuesday

HEALTH & FITNESS - Look good, feel great, live longer NOTHING TO SNEEZE AT
Allergies will feel worse this spring - stave off symptoms with these tips

BYLINE: DANA SCHUSTER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 492 words


APRIL showers bring May flowers - and a whole lotta sneezing and itchy eyes. And
this year, according to experts, allergies are going to be worse than ever.

"We're seeing allergy symptoms become more severe and start earlier," says Dr.
Neeta Ogden, an NYC-based allergist.

She and other doctors attribute this to environmental shifts and climate change.

"What determines if there is more or less pollen is temperature, humidity or
rainfall," says Dr. Darryl Zeldin, scientific director at National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences.

"This year is predicted to be very bad," he adds, noting that the mild, wet
winter caused premature blooming. "Typically in New York, pollen season doesn't
start until June, so this means a longer [allergy] season and more suffering."

And it's only going to get worse: Ogden cites a 2012 study indicating that in
the year 2040, "pollen counts will be double what they were in 2002."

Luckily, we've rounded up tips from top professionals to keep your eyes dry and
nasal passages clear.

See your allergist before the sneezing starts

Dr. Clifford Bassett, founder of Allergy & Asthma Care of New York, says it's
best to seek out care before scratching your eyes out.

Your doctor can introduce you to new treatments, like sublingual immunotherapy -
small doses of allergens in tablet form that the patient keeps under the tongue
for one to two minutes before swallowing. It's a less painful, more convenient
alternative to shots, though the tablets currently approved by the FDA are to
combat only ragweed and grass pollen.

Ditch the pollen-ridden clothes ASAP

"When the season starts, have an allergy basket where you dump everything that's
been outside, and throw it in the wash immediately," says Ogden.

Dr. Jordan Josephson, a nasal and endoscopic sinus surgeon in Manhattan, advises
patients to shower before getting into bed - even if it's just a quick nap: "A
lot of people go out on the golf course and take a nap in their clothes, and
then go to bed later and are rolling around in pollen," Josephson says.

Thoroughly clean your face

"Use baby wipes to clean your eyes and eyelashes, where you can have microscopic
grains of pollen sitting," says Ogden.

She also suggests using a saline spray to clean out the nose. The salt water
restores moisture to dry nasal passages and lessens the inflammation of mucous
membranes.

And when all else fails, stick some needles into your skin

While Bassett thoroughly recommends the care of allergy professionals, he says
there have been several studies that recommend acupuncture as "an adjunctive
treatment."

Josephson, meanwhile, is "a big proponent of a neti pot.

"I really like the Grossan Hydro Pulse, which is [like a] Waterpik to wash out
your sinuses. It makes people feel great. I always tell my golfers who have
allergies or sinus problems to use it right after they get off the golf course."

dschuster@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Avoid sneeze attacks like this one suffered by "E! News" host Maria
Menounos. [PacificCoastNews]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 25, 2016 Monday

Election 2016 Cruz, Kasich joining farces Teaming to block Trump

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Chris Perez

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 560 words


Republican rivals Ted Cruz and John Kasich are teaming up in a last-ditch effort
to deny Donald Trump the GOP presidential nomination, their campaigns announced
Sunday night.

Ohio Gov. Kasich will give up the fight in Indiana, while Texas Sen. Cruz will
do the same in Oregon and New Mexico, all to siphon delegates from Trump.

"Having Donald Trump at the top of the ticket in November would be a sure
disaster for Republicans," said Jeff Roe, Cruz's campaign manager.

"Not only would Trump get blown out by Clinton or Sanders, but having him as our
nominee would set the party back a generation. To ensure that we nominate a
Republican who can unify the Republican Party and win in November, our campaign
will focus its time and resources in Indiana and, in turn, clear the path for
Governor Kasich to compete in Oregon and New Mexico," Roe said.

Those in Kasich's camp said they were on board with the idea, also claiming that
Indiana was the key to stopping Trump, who is currently the Republican
front-runner with 845 delegates.

"Our goal is to have an open convention in Cleveland, where we are confident a
candidate capable of uniting the party and winning in November will emerge as
the nominee," Kasich strategist John Weaver said.

"Keeping Trump from winning a plurality in Indiana is critical to keeping him
under 1,237 bound delegates before Cleveland," Weaver added. "We will shift our
campaign's resources west and give the Cruz campaign a clear path in Indiana."

Trump scoffed at the "desperate" maneuvers of two flagging campaigns.

"Wow, just announced that Lyin' Ted and Kasich are going to collude in order to
keep me from getting the Republican nomination. DESPERATION!" he tweeted late
Sunday.

Cruz trails Trump with 559 delegates. Kasich has 148.

The decision to work together is a major change in strategy for Cruz, who has
tried to stay as far away from Kasich as possible and has even called on him to
drop out of the race.

It comes just two days before Trump is expected to win big Tuesday in
Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, also known as
the "Acela primaries."

"Donald Trump doesn't have the support of a majority of Republicans - not even
close, but he currently does have almost half the delegates because he's
benefited from the existing primary system," Kasich's campaign said.

Indiana's primary is May 3, Oregon's is May 17 and New Mexico's is on June 7.

Meanwhile, even staunch conservative billionaire Charles Koch is so disgusted by
the GOP presidential field that he will not spend a cent on any of the remaining
contenders - and won't even rule out supporting Democrat Hillary Clinton.

"We would have to believe her actions would be quite different than her
rhetoric, let me put it that way," Koch, 80, told ABC's "This Week" on Sunday.

But Clinton took to Twitter to say thanks but no thanks: "Not interested in
endorsements from people who deny climate science and try to make it harder for
people to vote," she wrote.

Charles - who, with brother David, has spent millions funding an array of GOP
candidates and causes - says Bill Clinton did a better job than George W. Bush
in controlling government growth.

"So is it possible another Clinton could be better than another Republican?"
ABC's Jonathan Karl asked.

"It's possible," Koch replied.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Having Donald Trump at the top of the ticket in November would be a
sure disaster for Republicans." - Jeff Roe, campaign manager for Ted Cruz (above
left), who announced he's teaming with John Kasich (above right) to stop Donald
Trump. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 2, 2016 Saturday

Andy's $50M 'job' fiasco Companies gobble cash, fail to hire

BYLINE: Kirstan Conley

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 382 words


ALBANY - A tax-break program promoted by Gov. Cuomo to boost the state's economy
cost more than $50 million but produced just 408 jobs in its first two years,
according to a report released at the start of a holiday weekend, three months
after it was due.

That comes to $122,549 a job.

Start-Up New York gives tax breaks in exchange for jobs.

More than 159 companies have signed up and promised to add 4,140 jobs in the
next five years.

Critics blasted state spending on ads to launch the program and the loss of
hoped-for tax revenue.

"The Empire State Development Corporation delayed and buried this report because
the results prove the strategy failed," said Doug Kellogg, spokesman for Reclaim
New York, a nonprofit group that calls for government reform and accountability.

"The government must stop playing venture capitalist and fix the tax and
regulatory problems that make New York the second-to-worst business-tax
environment in the country."

Kellogg charged that the ­program was "nothing more than cronyism."

Assembly Republican Minority Leader Brian Kolb called it "long on promises but
woefully short on actual jobs." He also criticized the economic-development
agency for timing the report's release when few taxpayers would be ­focused on
government news.

"Despite political rhetoric and false 'open for business' claims, this program
is not working for communities across the state," he said. "If Start-Up NY was
truly effective, New Yorkers would not have waited three months for an update
and details would not have been secretly posted on a Web site late on a Friday
afternoon."

Kolb called for changes to New York's tax system and regulations to encourage
business growth.

"Job creation and economic development will never be realized through gimmicks,
casinos or grant programs that choose winners and losers," he said.

Leslie Whatley, Start-Up's executive director who recently announced plans to
leave for the private sector, insisted she was extremely proud of the program,
which she said will ultimately create more than 4,000 jobs in its first five
years. She attributed slow job growth and the delayed release of the report to
"growing pains.''

START-UP NY

Total money spent: $50M

Total jobs added: 408

Cost per job added: $122K

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gov Andrew Cuomo. [Sipa USA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 10, 2016 Sunday

'FUTURES' so bright Amazin' prospect will be on display at All-Star event

BYLINE: and KEVIN KERNAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 606 words


SAN DIEGO - There are plenty of reasons to sneak a look at the Futures Game on
Sunday at Petco Park, but make sure you watch Mets prospect Dominic Smith play
first base.

He is Mr. Smooth and much more.

Here is a snapshot of a play Smith made last week for Double-A Binghamton in
Altoona, Pa.: Playing off the line, Smith, a lefty hitter and fielder, ranged
far to his right to grab a hot smash. He allowed his momentum to take him,
deftly rolled over, and quietly landed on one knee in a perfect throwing
position. He fired a strike to the pitcher covering first and Binghamton
recorded an out that would have been a hit in almost any other league almost any
other time.

Check your memory banks and YouTube to see Keith Hernandez making the same type
of play. That's the kind of first baseman the Mets will have at Citi Field in
the near future.

"Keith is going to love this guy,'' said one scout, who is keeping close tabs on
Smith.

"That's a play I really enjoy making,'' Smith told The Post. "It feels great to
make a play like that and change the momentum of an inning.''

Smith is one of the smoothest fielding young first basemen I ever have seen. In
fact, he is so smooth, he almost makes it look too easy.

Some scouts have said they would like to see Smith pick up his energy level, but
Smith simply is such a good fielder he does not have to put it into overdrive.

Smith has turned the power switch on lately and is coming to the Futures Game
with 10 home runs this first half of the season - and he hits in a climate that
is not hitter friendly for at least a month up in Great North of Binghamton. He
is batting .277.

At this rate, expect to see Smith up with the Mets some time in 2017, and he
will be a joy to watch. He is 6-foot and listed at 240 pounds. He is going to
have to keep tabs on his weight.

At last year's Futures Game during All-Star week in Cincinnati, Michael Conforto
impressed and was up with the Mets soon thereafter. Two years ago in
Minneapolis, it was Noah Syndergaard who was so good that former Twins manager
Tom Kelly raved about the big right-hander.

Smith, 21, could be the next Met making a big impression in the Futures Game
then helping the big league club soon after - shortstop Amed Rosario, 20, also
is one to watch, as are Yankees catcher Gary Sanchez and Mets second baseman of
the future Dilson Herrera.

"We're pretty close,'' Smith said of the progress he has made, along with his
Binghamton teammate Rosario. "We have to keep working, and maybe over the next
two years you'll see us. The Mets are really good on developing players, and I
think when we reach our potential the fans will be happy. They will definitely
be excited for the next 10-plus years.''

There you have it.

Smith has done good job of making adjustments. He is from L.A., so it took a
while to get used to playing in the East.

"It's way more humid,'' Smith said with a smile. "It's cold in the beginning of
the year, so there is a lot of stuff you have to take into account and get used
to it. You just have to grind through it.''

Here is what makes the Futures Game so special for these players: For one day,
they are in a major league stadium and get the chance to envision what their
baseball future could be like if they continue to work hard and make progress.

This is a game filled with hope. Last year slugger Kyle Schwarber was the MVP.
In October he was booming postseason home runs for the Cubs.

In the minor leagues the future is always a ways away, simply too far away to
grasp, but for this one day, this one glorious sunny, no humidity, SoCal day,
the future is now.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UP & COMING: Mets first baseman prospect Dominic Smith will play in the
Futures Game on Sunday in San Diego. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

New Yorkers Get Zapped Again

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 306 words


Call it the Make-Andrew-Look-Good Tax: a new bump in electric bills OK'd by the
Public Service Commission on Monday.

Officially, it's Gov. Cuomo's "zero-emission credits" for electricity, meant to
support non-fossil-fuel energy sources. In reality, it's a bailout for
financially struggling upstate nuclear-power plants.

Price tag? No one knows for sure, but estimates run to at least $1 billion over
two years, and perhaps billions more thereafter.

The tax will be folded into consumers' utility bills - on top of the 33 percent
of the bottom line that already goes to taxes.

The cause is supposedly to battle climate change. Cuomo's plan requires 50
percent of the state's electricity to come from non-carbon-emitting energy by
2030, and that's impossible without nuke plants - which account for up to 60
percent of New York's carbon-free energy.

This may win the gov points with the greenies, though many of them hate nuclear
power as much as they do fossil fuels.

But his real motive is likely different: The planned closure of the FitzPatrick
plant alone would kill 600 jobs. When that hit the news, Cuomo hit the roof,
ranting about the plant's "duty" to provide jobs.

The problem is, "saving" jobs retail imposes costs that kill them wholesale: New
York electricity costs are already obscene, and regularly cited as a reason not
to open a business here, along with the state's general "hold 'em up" attitude
toward the private sector.

Meanwhile, Cuomo's other signature "jobs" initiatives are a mess. The Buffalo
Billion is under federal investigation for corruption, while Start-Up New York
has flopped.

So now Long Island and New York City will pony up more for electricity to pay
for his mistakes and save jobs upstate.

With logic like that, it's no wonder businesses, residents - and jobs - are
fleeing.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 16, 2016 Friday

Hill's 'sexist' script is sick

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 742 words


'Hillary Clinton Isn't Sick. You Are."

So reads a mind-blowing headline published in The Daily Beast over a column by
feminist journalist, author and TV pundit Eleanor Clift - a piece so out of
touch with reality, it could drive one of Clinton's "deplorables" to lie down in
a safe space to escape triggering microaggressions.

Clift dismisses the notion that the Democratic presidential candidate nearly
passing out and falling on her face in public Sunday is proof that she may be
ill. Rather, she casts shame on anyone who worries, I think understandably, that
America's voters may soon elect a physical and possibly cognitive basket case as
commander in chief.

She whines that "ageism and sexism can combine in a double whammy undermining
her candidacy."

So, Clinton, 68, isn't sick. You're a knuckle-dragging, misogynistic, ageist
creep if you think so.

Were it only Clift who felt that way. The Clinton Chick Protection Racket is
working double-time.

Last month, BC - Before the Collapse - Glamour magazine declared: "Yes, It's
Sexist to Speculate About Hillary Clinton's Health." Now, AC, it's gotten worse.
My Facebook feed is littered with crazed dames and dumb dudes writing stuff such
as, "The Media Owe Hillary Clinton an Apology." For expecting her to do
something completely alien to her DNA: tell the truth? Stunning.

On CNN, Christiane Amanpour was in full-throttle go-grrrl mode. "Can't a girl
have a sick day or two?" the show hostess and lead international correspondent
said Monday.

Leftist writer Leela Daou combined estrogen defense with another liberal
obsession. "What we REALLY should be talking about is why it's so damn hot on a
September morning," she tweeted, suggesting that Clinton's quest to halt climate
change would save not only herself but frisky polar bears.

"I have to say I think there's an element of sexism in how this is being
over-covered at this point," Jill Abramson said on the BBC. New York Times
readers who long for the truth may breathe a sigh of relief - she was ousted as
the paper's executive editor in 2014.

What gets me is how eager those on the left are to give Hillary a pass for
covering up details about her questionable health while slamming her critics as
enemies trying to block the door of the White House to a woman. But it's not any
woman - just this deceitful one.

She was whisked from a ceremony commemorating the 15th anniversary of 9/11 in
New York City Sunday at around 9:30 a.m., in obvious medical distress. But
Clinton avoided going to an emergency room as Secret Service protocol dictates,
The Post reported, out of fear of media leaks about her condition. Instead, she
went to the Manhattan apartment shared by daughter Chelsea Clinton, her hubby,
Marc Mezvinsky, and their two kids. Just before noon, she emerged into daylight,
waved her arms and crowed, weirdly, "I'm feeling great. Great. It's a beautiful
day in New York," and put her hands on the shoulders of a random little girl -
apparently forgetting that it was still the anniversary of one of the darkest
chapters in United States history.

(After delivering that weather report, I wouldn't blame her if she said she was
replaced by a body double, as conspiracy theorists claim.)

Team Hillary first announced that she was "overheated." Hours later, her
personal doctor revealed that she was diagnosed with non-contagious bacterial
pneumonia - not the virulent viral kind - two days earlier, but kept this quiet.
Only a frightening video showing a stumbling Clinton virtually being lifted into
a van by two Secret Service agents gives the public a clue as to what the hell
is going on with Clinton's body.

"I just didn't think it was going to be that big a deal," she said on CNN about
the pneumonia diagnosis.

Oops.

What about her coughing fits? And her history of fainting? A 2012 pass-out, when
she served as secretary of state, caused a concussion and a blood clot to form
in her head.

The most aggravating aspect of Healthgate or Grandmagate or - as Clinton's camp
might call it - Nothing-to-See-Heregate, is that the vast left-wing conspiracy
has decided that even wondering aloud about the physical soundness of the woman
who would be the most powerful person in the free world is sexist. Hillary
Clinton rejoined the campaign trail Thursday after taking a break. And I'll
continue to ask - what the hell is wrong with her?

We could be stuck with this woman for quite some time.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prescription. [Post photo illustration]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday

Election 2016 Shake hands & go to war Trump, Hillary trade slams over policy and
honesty

BYLINE: Daniel Halper , Sophia Rosenbaum and Bob Fredericks

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words


Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton squared off in a contentious first debate
Monday night, with the Democrat slamming the GOP nominee for his tax proposals,
refusal to release his tax returns and "engaging in racist behavior" for
questioning President Obama's birthplace.

Trump fired back, calling Clinton soft on terrorism and the economy, saying she
had no stamina and that the deletion of thousands of her e-mails from when she
was secretary of state was an intentional act and a "disgrace" - not a mistake,
as Clinton has said.

The debate at Hofstra University on Long Island began amicably, with the two
shaking hands, but quickly devolved.

"I was the one that got him to produce his birth certificate. And I think I did
a good job. I was able to get him to produce it. He should have produced it a
long time before," Trump said.

"Just listen to what you heard," Clinton told the audience, feigning
incredulity.

"Clearly, as Donald just admitted . . . he tried to put the whole racist
'birther' lie to bed. But it can't be dismissed that easily. He has really
started his political activity based on this racist lie that our first black
president was not an American citizen," she charged.

At one point, Clinton said, "I have a feeling that by the end of the evening I'm
going to be blamed for everything that's ever happened."

"Why not?" Trump jumped in.

" 'Why not.' Yeah, why not? Just join the debate by saying more crazy things,"
she said.

Clinton, 68, smiled and appeared scripted for much of the debate while a
combative Trump, 70, repeatedly interrupted her as she criticized him, ignoring
moderator Lester Holt's attempts to get him to stick to the rules.

When Holt asked the Republican about releasing his tax returns, he repeated that
he would release them after the IRS completes its audit.

Clinton pounced, saying Trump must have something to hide.

"First, maybe he's not as rich as he says he is. Second, maybe he's not as
charitable as he claims to be. Or maybe he doesn't want the American people, all
of you watching tonight, to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes," she
said.

"That makes me smart," Trump shot back. "I have a great company, I have a
tremendous income" - which he said was $694 million last year.

Trump said he would release his returns if Clinton released the thousands of
e-mails she deleted from her private server from her tenure as secretary of
state.

Clinton again called using the server a mistake, but Trump countered that the
American people thought it was "a disgrace."

Clinton accused Trump of rooting for the housing collapse in 2008 - and slammed
him for calling climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.

"I did not. I did not. I do not say that," Trump interrupted - though that is
what he tweeted in November 2012.

The former first lady also attacked Trump for allegedly not paying contractors
who worked for him as he built his real-estate empire.

"I have met a lot of the people who were stiffed by you and your businesses,
Donald. I've met dishwashers, painters, architects, glass installers, marble
installers, drapery installers . . . who you refused to pay when they finished
the work that you asked them to do," she said, citing one architect in the
audience.

"Maybe he didn't do a good job and I was unsatisfied with his work - which our
country should do, too," the billionaire businessman responded.

They also clashed sharply over ISIS, with Trump again saying the vacuum in the
Middle East created by the Obama administration led to ISIS's rise.

"You're telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder you've been
fighting ISIS your entire adult life. Secretary, you have no plan," Trump said.

"In fact, I have written a book about it. It's called 'Stronger Together.' You
can pick it up tomorrow at a bookstore or at an airport near you."

"That's about all you've done," Trump snapped back.

Iraq was another flashpoint.

"Donald supported the invasion of Iraq. That has been proved over and over
again," Clinton said.

"Wrong, wrong!" Trump responded.

When asked about his comment that Clinton did not "look" presidential, Trump
denied having said it and said that she lacked stamina.

"As soon as he travels to 112 countries and negotiates a peace deal, a
cease-fire . . . you can talk to me about stamina," Clinton answered.

"Let me tell you, Hillary has experience, but it's bad experience," Trump
retorted, shifting gears.

Clinton noted Trump didn't answer Holt's question and with the debate winding
down went for the jugular.

"He tried to switch from 'looks' to 'stamina,' but this is a man who has called
women 'pigs,' 'slobs' and 'dogs,' " she said.

Trump mysteriously hinted that he had a nasty line of attack, but decided to
skip it - an apparent reference to Bill Clinton's womanizing.

"I was going to say something extremely rough to Hillary, to her family. I said
to myself, 'I can't. I just can't do it,' " he said.

Analysts said they doubted that either candidate changed many minds.

"This debate was not a rhetorical breakthrough for either candidate. It really
came off as both wonkish and petty," Jeff McCall, a professor of media studies
at DePauw University, told The Post.

"Hillary came off as more prepared, but she also seemed scripted and her
approach was forced," he said.

"Trump came off as less scripted, but rambled at times. And every minute he
talked about his business and his taxes, he was losing."

Additional reporting by Reuven Fenton and Marisa Schultz

DEBATE HIGHLIGHTS

BEST EXCHANGE

* ClInton: "I have a feeling that by the end of the evening, I'm going to be
blamed for everything that's ever happened."

Trump: "Why not?"

ClInton: " 'Why not.' Just join the debate by saying more crazy things."

ON ISIS

* "You've been fighting ISIS your entire adult life." - Donald Trump

ON BEING FIT FOR OFFICE

* "I think Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. Yes, I did.
You know what else I prepared for? I prepared to be president." - Hillary
Clinton

* "I have a much better temperament than she does. I have a winning temperament.
I know how to win." - Donald Trump

rfredericks@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump shaking hands at the first
presidential debate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday

Heat cools sales Winter garb sits on retailers' shelves

BYLINE: Lisa Fickenscher

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 326 words


Hot weather, cold sales.

This fall's unseasonable heat is messing with retailers' plans to sell sweaters,
pants, jackets and other cold weather clothing, according to a report.

As many parts of the country experienced the warmest September in 55 years or
more, sales at speciality apparel stores - the kind that populate shopping malls
- were down by $393 million in August and September, compared with a decline of
$376 million over the same period last year, according to Planalytics, which
tracks weather trends for retailers.

"If retailers panic, it'll be a very promotional holiday season," said
Planalytics President Scott Bernhardt.

Foot traffic, for example, was down 5 percent at American Eagle Outfitters and
down 6 percent at Burlington Coat Factory in September, according to the
Planalytics report, while same-store sales at The Gap were down an estimated 3
percent or 4 percent, according to Wells Fargo analyst Ike Boruchow.

"We feel September was yet another month of choppy sales trends, slightly higher
promotions and likely not a great month for retailers in general," Boruchow
wrote in a report.

As early as July, some retailers were bracing for a warm fall and asked their
vendors to hold on to their fall merchandise until September rather than
shipping it into stores in August, when most shops begin stocking up on cooler
weather apparel.

"The summer was also way too hot to bring in that much fall inventory and the
retailers still had a lot of summer clothing at that point," said Gary Wassner,
president of Hilldun, a fashion industry lender.

Still others point out that shoppers were willing to shell out big bucks for a
hot, trending item like the $170 Tommy Hilfiger overalls that Urban Outfitters
was selling in September that sold out, or the $300 Ugg knee suede boots that
Nordstrom sold out of, according to Gabriella Santaniello, founder of retail
consultancy A Line Partners.

lfickenscher@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLOUDY FORECAST: Climate change and brisk winter sales don't mix, as
sales-deprived retail chains are finding following the abnormally warm
September. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Hondo Sawx it to 'em

BYLINE: HONDO

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 160 words


Familia pulled yet another October flop on Wednesday night, which sent the Mets
home and caused Hondo's earnings to shrink to 3,793 pagliaronis.

Thursday night: Mr. Aitch will sample the Porcello at Progressive Field in
Cleveland - 20 units on the Bosawx to make Bauer cower.

ssssssssssss+$

Al Gore reportedly will hit the campaign trail soon on Hillary Clinton's behalf,
supposedly to mobilize millennials concerned about climate change. Sources say
she wants the former VP to go basement to basement at their parents' houses
(where they all live, according the Pantsuit) to try to win them over ... It has
to be viewed as a desperate move on the part of the Clinton campaign - asking
the country's most uncharismatic politician to rally support for the country's
most unlikable candidate ... It's too bad Gore sold Current TV. He could have
tried to influence the 27 people who watched that so-called network to vote for
Hillary.

hondo@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Fêting Leo's 'Flood' in Miami

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 166 words


LeoNARDO DiCaprio showed off his climate change doc, "Before the Flood," in
Miami on Tuesday night, but many guests had their own more immediate
environmental concerns in mind. "Everyone there was freaking out about Hurricane
Matthew," which is threatening to hit on Thursday, "and Zika," said a spy.
"Brett Ratner showed up wearing two Zika bracelets," the source said of the
director's alleged anti-mosquito jewelry. Also at the New World Center screening
of the film directed by Fisher Stevens was environmental activist-actor Mark
Ruffalo. Meanwhile, late last week, ­DiCaprio had a reunion with his "Titanic"
co-star Kate Winslet. Spies said the pair from the '90s Oscar-winning film were
spotted dining together at a pre-opening for Wolfgang Puck's first New York
restaurant, Cut by Wolfgang Puck, at the new Four Seasons Downtown. Winslet's in
town filming Woody Allen's newest movie, as yet untitled, with  Justin
Timberlake. She brought along her deliciously named hubby, Ned ­Rocknroll.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Hondo Sawx it to 'em

BYLINE: HONDO

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 171 words


Hondo, who needed some anger management after Buck Showalter's bullpen
management in the Orioles loss Tuesday night, had 3,901 pagliaronis in the
account going into his Wednesday night investment on the Metamucils.

Thursday night: Mr. Aitch will sample the Porcello at Progressive Field in
Cleveland - 20 units on the Bosawx to make Bauer cower.

ssssssssssss+$

Al Gore reportedly will hit the campaign trail soon on Hillary Clinton's behalf,
supposedly to mobilize millennials concerned about climate change. Sources say
she wants the former VP to go basement to basement at their parents' houses
(where they all live, according the Pantsuit) to try to win them over ... It has
to be viewed as a desperate move on the part of the Clinton campaign - asking
the country's most uncharismatic politician to rally support for the country's
most unlikable candidate ... It's too bad Gore sold Current TV. He could have
tried to influence the 27 people who watched that so-called network to vote for
Hillary.

hondo@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

Clime & punishment

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 57 words


Researchers report that carbon-dioxide levels have passed 400 parts per million
at a Hawaii observatory, and aren't likely to get much lower. Bummer. This means
life will likely be wiped out due to climate change.

Maybe it's time for a trip to the Aloha State in case things improve. If they
don't, maybe I won't have to pay for the trip.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 11, 2016 Friday

President-Elect Trump Infighting has Dems in turmoil at meeting

BYLINE: , Joe Tacopino and Danika Fears

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 252 words


The Democratic Party was gripped by infighting Thursday, as its first major
meeting since Hillary Clinton's defeat loss was marred by a heckler - one of
their own - who lambasted interim committee leader Donna Brazile.

While giving a speech to about 150 party workers, Brazile was interrupted by a
staffer who blamed her for the party's defeat to Donald Trump Tuesday, according
to the Huffington Post.

"Why should we trust you as chair to lead us through this?" asked the man, who
identified himself as Zach.

"You backed a flawed candidate, and your friend [former Democratic National
Committee chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz] plotted through this to support your
own gain and yourself."

The group then broke out into boos and arguments.

"You are part of the problem," Zach declared. "You and your friends will die of
old age, and I'm going to die from climate change. You and your friends let this
happen, which is going to cut 40 years off my life expectancy."

Meanwhile, former DNC chair Howard Dean announced a bid to head the party again.
But, Sen. Bernie Sanders backed Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison, a key supporter of
Sanders' presidential campaign.

Sanders, also said it was an "embarrassment" that so many working-class citizens
bolted the Democratic Party to vote for Trump, and did not rule out making
another presidential bid.

"Four years is a long time from now," said Vermont senator, who would be 79 by
then. "We'll take one thing at a time, but I'm not ruling out anything."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bernie Sanders Mulls 2020 run as party bickers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 11, 2016 Friday

Comic relief after election anxiety

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 318 words


THIS really was the toughest job in showbiz. Comics including Seth Meyers and
John Oliver were booked to crack jokes the night after the election to a
melancholy crowd of Manhattan masters of the universe. Meyers opened the
National Resources Defense Council's Night of Comedy - attended by Lloyd
Blankfein, Harvey Weinstein, Diane von Furstenberg and Graydon Carter - saying
of Trump, "As a comedian this is the dream gig . . . You definitely want to be
playing a Manhattan room after a Trump victory.

Did you guys watch the election? Man, that was a real grab in the p - - - y . .
. I feel like if there is anyone really freaking out right now it might actually
be Donald Trump. I don't think he realized this could actually happen. He's
probably looking at a map of America right now and saying, 'Wait, how big does
this wall have to be?' " Oliver admitted, "I've been talking s - - t about this
man for two years. I might be getting moved to Canada against my will. But I am
going to stay here. I am going to attend his inauguration . . . Like the string
quartet on the Titanic, I am going to turn to the person to my left and to my
right and say, 'Gentlemen, it has been an honor playing with you.' " "Daily
Show" correspondent Hasan Minhaj told the crowd his mother, a US citizen for 30
years, is out of the country visiting family and fears she won't be able to
return. Referencing Trump's 2015 call for a ban on Muslims, he said, "That's my
mom and I need her back home because I love her . . . and she owes me $300."
George Lopez later came out holding a piece of paper and said, "This isn't my
notes, it's my birth certificate. F - - k Donald Trump. I am speechless in two
languages." Among the bigs at the gig - to raise money for NRDC's mission to
preserve the environment and fight climate change - were David Zaslav and wife
Pam, Jimmy Buffett, Les Moonves, Richard Plepler and John McEnroe.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 105 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 31, 2016 Saturday

Here's what won't happen in 2017

BYLINE: ADAM BRODSKY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 665 words


'Out of respect for his new office, President Trump will give up tweeting.'

Even the best crystal balls couldn't have predicted some of the bizarre events
of 2016 - not least, that a crude, TV reality-show host/real-estate billionaire
would win the race for president. Divining what will happen in 2017 won't be
much easier.

Yet here are some predictions you can be sure won't come to pass in the coming
year.

l Donald Trump will build a wall and Mexico will pay for it.

l Democrats will quit blaming James Comey, Vladimir Putin and the Grinch Who
Stole the Election for Hillary Clinton's loss - and admit she was just a lousy
candidate.

l In appreciation for all that America has done for him, Colin Kaepernick will
belt out the "Star-Spangled Banner" at the Macy's 4th of July fireworks
celebration.

l Mayor de Blasio will stop killing helpless, innocent animals.

l For kicks, NJ Gov. Chris Christie will order lanes closed at the George
Washington Bridge.

l The Hilton will build a spanking new four-star hotel in . . . Aleppo. (After
locating the city on a map, Gary Johnson will be its first guest.)

l Out of respect for his new office, President Trump will give up tweeting
forever.

l Out of respect for his new office, President Trump will give up tweeting for a
month.

l Trump will give up tweeting for 10 minutes.

l Bernie Sanders will become a Wall Street banker.

l Universities will lure their speech police into safe spaces, lock the door
behind them and throw away the key - and declare their campuses fully open to
freedom of expression, thought and debate.

l All the A-listers who vowed to leave the country if Trump won the election -
Rosie O'Donnell, Amy Schumer, Chelsea Handler, Jon Stewart, Neve Campbell, Bryan
Cranston, Lena Dunham, Ne-Yo, Chloë Sevigny, Al Sharpton, Natasha Lyonne, Samuel
L. Jackson, Cher, George Lopez, Barbra Streisand, Raven-Symoné, Whoopi Goldberg,
Miley Cyrus, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and others - will actually leave.

l One of de Blasio's Renewal schools will show signs of . . . renewal.

l Russia will be tasked with ensuring that no corruption takes place in any
international sports competition.

l Gov. Cuomo will campaign vigorously for de Blasio's reelection.

l Thanks to its socialist system, Venezuela will become the richest nation on
earth.

l The United Nations will stand up forcefully for the right of Israel to exist.

l Most of the kids who graduate from New York's public schools will be truly
ready for college or a job.

l Iran will abide by the deal and never again pursue nukes.

l State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman will admit people can disagree about
climate change - and drop his politically motivated Exxon Mobil witch hunt.

l Hillary Clinton will turn over those 33,000 missing e-mails.

l A superhero movie will debut in a theater somewhere in the world - and no one
will go see it.

l The New York Times will run a glowing, positive profile of Donald Trump.

l The New York Times will find even one nice thing to say about Trump.

l Fired as an ambassador by the United Nations, Wonder Woman will become ISIS's
new mascot.

l The people of Flint, Mich., and Hoosick Falls, NY, will make a fortune
bottling and selling their water.

l Senators who work with Ted Cruz will come to like him.

l De Blasio will take nightly horse-carriage rides through Central Park.

l Preet Bharara will end his investigations of New York pols, give them all a
clean bill of health and declare the state a paragon of ethical virtue.

l Kim Jong-un will lose in free North Korean elections, step down gracefully and
become a used-car salesman.

l Europe will open its doors to millions more refugees - and witness no more
terror attacks.

l Trump will eliminate all possible conflicts of interest between his presidency
and his family business.

l If you like your doctor, uh . . . never mind.

l Pundits will finally stop making silly New Year's predictions.

abrodsky@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
