
                               1 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          September 30, 1999, Thursday

HE JUST DOESN'T GET IT: THE GORE CAMPAIGN'S PROBLEM ISN'T THE HQ, IT'S THE
CANDIDATE

BYLINE: Dick Morris

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 635 words


AT last, Vice President Al Gore has awakened and realized that he is in the
fight of his life for the Democratic presidential nomination. Unfortunately, he
has chosen to change his style, not his substance, to cope with the unexpected
challenge.

What Gore needs is a new vision,not a new headquarters. He needs to shrink his
top-heavy staff,not just move it to another city. He's got to stop spending the
money he will need for television on consultants.

The malady that afflicts the Gore Campaign will not be solved by a change of
scenery. The vice president needs to separate himself from his boss and speak,
in his own voice, to America. It does not matter if his dull, boring speeches
are written in Nashville or Washington, nor whether he gives them at Rotary
Clubs or town meetings. What is important is that he articulate his own goals
and priorities. So far, Gore has not said anything that might not just as easily
have been included in Clinton's next State of the Union speech.

Why does Gore focus on mechanics when he should pay attention to substance? This
incredibly insecure man does not believe in his own ideas enough to stake his
campaign's success or failure on them. In the '80s, he was ahead of the entire
nation in his vision of global warming and climate change. He predicted summers
like the ones we've had in New York, storms like Floyd, El Ninos and even the
migration of tropical diseases like encephalitis to more temperate climes. But
now he seems to have forgotten to dance with the issue that brung him.

He doesn't need a change of scenery, he needs a belief in his own ideas. He
needs to poke his head above the sea of staff, consultants, and political
mechanics in which he is submerged and find himself.

His announcement that he will debate Bradley could be the start of a return to
the right track for his campaign. Motivated by the desperate sound of hoofbeats
at his rear, Gore has finally conceded that the former New Jersey senator is
alive, well and running. He seems to be abandoning his strategy of acting like
he is unopposed and that Dollar Bill is nothing more than an annoying
distraction.

It is not that Gore will do so well in a debate. Likely he'll fall well short of
Clinton's performances. It's that Bradley will have to come into our focus.

Until now, the former basketball star has avoided our scrutiny. He is willing to
be anything we want him to be - a Rorschach test to measure our reaction to
Gore. Is Gore too conservative? Vote for Bradley. Too liberal? Go for Bradley.
Too close to Clinton? Bradley's his own man. Too defensive of Clinton in the
Monica mess? Bradley's clean. Too willing to attack his boss? Bradley wouldn't
do that. Bradley is the un-Gore. Now, in a debate, Bradley will have to emerge
as a candidate in his own right, not just a way of voting "no" in a referendum
on Al Gore.

But Gore's central tactical problem is that he is hemorrhaging cash. When the
end-of-quarter reports come out at the end of September, we will likely find
that Bradley has more cash on hand than Gore does and that the former New Jersey
senator has more legally available to spend before he hits the $40-million
limit.

The move to Nashville may worsen the problem. By following the advice consultant
Paul Begala was kind enough to publish for him in George Magazine, Gore has to
break his $59,000-a-month lease on his posh headquarters. Begala advised that he
"pay off the lease and move." How much will that cost? Another quarter of a
million? That's the total cost of Iowa television ads for a month!

Al Gore does not need town meetings. He does not need to move his headquarters.
He does need to reach deep within and ask how his presidency would differ from
Clinton's. He's got to find himself and let America know who he is.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               2 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 28, 1999, Sunday

VERY LONG-RANGE FORECAST: HOT!

BYLINE: DAN KADISON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 250 words


Sizzling summers, warm winters and low precipitation - that's the forecast for
the next 1,000 years.

Over the next century, temperatures in the world will rise 2 to 6 degrees
because of the greenhouse effect, which experts believe is created when
pollution rises into the atmosphere and acts as an insulating layer.

"There will likely be many more summer days in the '90s in New York City. The
next generation of Americans will see dramatic changes," said geosciences
professor Dr. Raymond Bradley of University of Massachusetts at Amherst.

In fact, the warming trend may have already begun: Bradley notes that the
current decade has been the millennium's warmest.

But high temperatures swirling around the atmosphere will cause volatile weather
of all types.

"You'll see more records broken in rainfall and drought and more prolonged times
of hot and cold," said Cornell meteorological professor Mark Wysocki.

In the next 50 or 60 years, sun-worshipers will be able to spend more time at
the beach as the ozone layer - reportedly depleted in the last 30 years by the
now-banned chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) - begins to heal.

The ozone should return to pre-fluorocarbon levels by 2050 or 2060, predicts
Dave Hofmann, director of the Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory in
Boulder, Colo.

In years to come, weather forecasts on the nightly news will cover longer
periods of time, predicts Michael Scott Schlacter, chief meteorologist for the
Weather 2000 consulting firm.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               3 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 28, 1999, Sunday

HOW ALBANY CHOKES N.Y.C.

BYLINE: BRIAN C. ANDERSON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 055

LENGTH: 1324 words


Richard Gottfried (D-Manhattan) is typicalof Assembly Democrats on taxes: "I
don't think cuttingtaxes improves the business climate." U P in Albany, the 211
mostly obscure individuals who make up the state Legislature shape the lives of
New York City dwellers in ways Gothamites never imagine.

One recent legislative decision ordered the city to pay its disabled emergency
medical workers a budget-busting three-quarters of their salary; another directs
city school districts to offer pre-kindergarten classes to all 4-year-olds by
2002 - though the city lacks the teachers and classrooms to do it.

Mayor Giuliani, after a successful first term, is now squarely up against the
Legislature's power: To accomplish further major improvements - to launch school
vouchers or to make high-tax Gotham more business-friendly - he will need
Albany's say-so.

Consider tax policy. New York City's killer taxes have cost it an estimated 1
million jobs, as fed-up businesses fled town, while new ones flocked to more
welcoming economic climes. Yet, as Assemblyman Richard Gottfried (D-Manhattan)
bluntly puts it: "The city can't change a comma in its tax code without Albany
approval." In his first term, Giuliani managed to get the Legislature to approve
modest tax reductions, saving taxpayers more than half a billion dollars in
1998. But "the Assembly fought us on many cuts," says one city lobbyist,
"wondering why we were doing these things for businesses."

Democrats control the Assembly, and New York City's delegation, nearly
two-thirds of the 98-member Democratic majority, dominates the party conference,
holding the speakership and most committee chairs. They are an unprepossessing
group, many of them locked into musty orthodoxies, fashionable when they first
arrived in Albany back in the Age of Aquarius.

Typical is Gottfried, the head of the city's legislative delegation. As a
bearded 23-year-old "in love" with the Kennedys, he joined the Assembly in 1970,
while enrolled at Columbia Law School. Today he describes himself as "a
committed progressive," upholding New York's business-throttling tangle of
environmental and labor regulations and seeking to decriminalize pot. "If I
weren't able to participate in the Legislature," he says, "I think I'd still be
throwing bombs."

Gottfried is also typical of Assembly Democrats on taxes: "I don't think cutting
taxes improves the business climate," he argues, "since many things essential to
making the city a good business environment - good schools, hospitals, public
transportation - demand substantial public investment."

The Legislature gives away many of these tax dollars to special interests -
above all, to unions, both those representing municipal employees and those
representing private employees working on city contracts. Salaries and benefits
to municipal workers make up half the city's $33 billion budget, and their
runaway growth is a major reason that city taxes are so swollen. Yet the city
doesn't fully control its payroll.

Just ask former Mayor Ed Koch. "The unions bargained with me back in 1988," Koch
recalls, "but I said we couldn't afford to increase pensions - they were already
more generous than the state's. So they went to Albany, and the Legislature
said, "We're going to increase your pensions."

The Legislature's tactic in aiding city unions is to introduce a constant stream
of bills, knowing that sooner or later one will pass. A perfect case in point is
the Senate's approval in December, without a single word of discussion, of a
bill already passed by the Assembly to shift the site for arbitrating city labor
disputes with cops from the city's Office of Collective Bargaining - where
disputes have been hammered out for 25 years - to the state's union-friendly
Public Employment Relations Board.

As city budget director Robert Harding warns, the move "would cost the city $200
million a year" through hiked salaries and benefits. Gov. Pataki vetoed an
earlier version of the bill in early 1996, but the 29,000-member police union
had enough pull in both houses to get an override. The city sued, and the State
Court of Appeals ruled in its favor on technical grounds. But the issue, like
Dracula, came back from the grave. In late December, Pataki signed the new bill,
drafted to skirt court challenge.

B UT the biggest complaint the city has with Albany concerns the lawmakers'
stubborn opposition to education reform. Gotham's underachieving public schools
are ultimately Albany's responsibility: The Legislature determines such basic
matters as teacher tenure and how much power local school districts will wield,
and, through appointments to the Board of Regents, it sets the qualifications
for teachers.

It is the Legislature that decided whether the public clamor for charter schools
succeeded, and it will decide the fate of school vouchers, too. Given that the
Legislature behaves like a wholly-owned subsidiary of the teachers union, which
opposes such reforms, getting real improvement is like pulling teeth.

Influential Manhattan Assemblyman Steven Sanders, the Education Committee
chairman, rejects vouchers, as does every Assembly Democrat I interviewed. "It's
not an appropriate use of public dollars," Sanders tersely says.

Commenting on Pataki's effective charter bill, which the Legislature watered
down before passing it in December, Sanders warns: "The difficulty is that it
takes the chartering authority out of the public school milieu and gives it to
other entities." Of course, charter schools will improve student performance
only if they do break with the "public school milieu," with its focus on the
interests of teachers rather than students, but never mind.

"How do you determine what kind of certification or experience teachers in
charters would have?" Sanders continues. "Not everybody can teach." His
implication is that charter schools should have the same restrictive
certification requirements that make public schools off limits to the gifted
teachers without ed-school degrees who fill the teaching ranks of the best
private schools.

When I pressed Sanders on how to improve city schools, he noted that the Regents
had set more rigorous professional development programs for teachers and had
standardized the practices of ed schools. But these are meaningless reforms,
tightening the control of the same education bureaucrats who helped make the
mess in the first place.

What other reforms does Sanders support? Building and repairing school
buildings: "Classrooms are overcrowded, the schools are old, some still use
19th-century coal to heat their buildings" - disregarding the fact that
impoverished Catholic schools, with classrooms as ramshackle as the most
decrepit public school, have vastly better test scores and graduation rates.

In short, here's Sanders' vision: Leave in place the public-school status quo,
shovel more money at it, and all will be fine. Not an inspiring message for
frustrated parents.

Waive enough money at New York's venal legislators, though, and anything might
happen. When the Legislature passed, despite fierce teachers-union opposition, a
watered-down, but still promising, version of Pataki's charter bill, it took a
huge 38 percent pay hike and other lousy legislation, including the Patrolmen's
Benevolent Association bill, to get lawmakers to do it.

Though the law is hardly everything education reformers would like, it permits
charter schools to have some uncertified teachers, allows some non-union
charters, and ensures that funding follows students to good schools, forcing the
underperforming ones to get their act together or lose revenue. It's not an
educational revolution, but it's a first step, and in New York's retrogressive
Legislature, nothing short of amazing.

---

Adapted from the Winter 1999 issue of City Journal, where Brian C. Anderson is
senior editor.

---

Eric Fettmann returns next week.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               4 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 22, 1999, Tuesday

BUSH BESTS GORE IN ROUND ONE - THE MAN FROM TEXAS SHOWS A VISION THAT APPEALS TO
AMERICA

BYLINE: Dick Morris

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 924 words


'Like a heavyweight pugilistyearning for a replay of hischampionship fight, the
vice presidentkept referring to the past in an effort tovisit the sins of the
father on the son.'

THE 2000 election started last week when Vice President Al Gore announced his
candidacy and Texas Gov. George W. Bush began his campaign. The result?
Advantage Bush.

After Bush II's day in the sun, we vividly remember his self-proclaimed label as
the "compassionate conservative." From Gore II's announcement, one only recalls
his clumsy efforts to distance himself from Clinton's sexual escapades.

Bush, called "W" by his colleagues, spoke with eloquence and passion of "a quiet
river of goodness and kindness that cuts through stone." He marked a clear shift
in GOP politics by eschewing the hard-edged denunciations of people from
different cultures that has marked radical right rhetoric in the past. More
importantly, he triangulated by using Republican means, like tax cuts, to
achieve Democratic goals, like compassion for the poor.

For his part, Gore's announcement was rooted in a comparison of the records of
Bush Sr. with Bill Clinton. Like a heavyweight pugilist yearning for a replay of
his championship fight, the vice president kept referring to the past in an
effort to visit the sins of the father on the son.

His speech hammered against the wrong Bush. He said, "We remember what it was
like seven years ago " and "seven years ago, we needed to put America back to
work" - reciting a litany of failings of the Bush Sr. years. Updating his
negative campaigning, Gore also attacked Bush II by hitting those who would let
"people fend for themselves or hope for crumbs of compassion." The rest of
Gore's announcement statement was like a poll questionnaire come to life.
Proposing a host of good initiatives, each of which had been thoroughly tested
in his surveys, Gore laid out not a vision, but a laundry list of programs.

Gore's attack on Bush Sr. could easily backfire. Americans will not take kindly
to a campaign of guilt by association. "W" could blunt the offensive by
pre-emptively spelling out what he would do in the event of a recession,
effectively erasing our memories of his father's floundering in the face of a
downturn. Then, if Gore hits President Bush's record, W can cry foul with great
effect.

In Newsweek magazine, Jonathan Alter put his finger on Bush's real problem: Will
he bend to the will of his party and return to a right-wing agenda, or will he
make the party come to him in the center of our process?

Bush needs to spell out how he would bring a new compassion to conservatism. For
one thing, he needs to publicize some of the excellent steps he has taken in
Texas. For example, he turned a state prison over to the Prison Fellowship, a
spiritually based organization dedicated to rehabilitating those in jail. From
warden to guard to nurse, every employee who runs the facility is a believer,
many themselves ex-inmates and graduates of 12-step programs.

Nationally, Bush would do well to push for a tax credit for contributions to
charitable organizations up to $200 per person. In effect, this would divert a
revenue stream of $20 billion to $30 billion from the government to every manner
of charitable institution. Churches, soup kitchens, colleges, hospitals, health
research groups, and the like would all benefit. Rather than let the
special-interest-dominated Congress decide where to spend the money, each
taxpayer could decide on his or her own priorities and give to the groups whose
work he or she most wants to support.

Curiously missing from Gore's announcement was any reference to the environment,
the issue that has animated Gore in the past. Through all of 1995 and 1996,
Clinton's and Gore's advisors constantly badgered the vice president to downplay
his environmental concerns. He learned the lesson too well. Now, when the
under-35 voter is yearning for strong measures to stop global warming and to
reverse climate change, he avoids the subject that first put him on the map.

Recent global weather aberrations have made it completely clear to the average
American that something weird is happening to our climate. From El Ninos to
devastating tornadoes, to more frequent and violent hurricanes, draughts, and
floods, none of us can escape the conclusion that the earth's climate is
changing. As this evidence accumulates, global environmental concerns will
assume the same centrality in our thinking that the danger of planetary
destruction through nuclear war had in the past 50 years.

Gore, who saw all this a decade or more ago, needs to return to the subject that
put him on the map. By speaking of his area of passion - the environment - he
will kindle the flame that he needs to animate his lifeless campaign.

There is an old baseball adage: "Hit 'em where they ain't." Bush is all over the
education and family issues. But he is nowhere on the environment. His record in
this area is nil. Why doesn't Gore speak out?

More fundamentally, why did Gore use his announcement statement - the one media
even he can completely control - for tactical housekeeping rather than broad
vision? Of course Gore needed to distance himself from Clinton's sex scandal.
Obviously, he has to articulate a program for the future. But there is a time
and a place to do these things and his announcement statement was neither.

When Gore needed passion, he chose tactical positioning. Needing vision, he
chose details. If he is to win, Al Gore has got to get it in gear.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               5 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 2, 1999, Tuesday

HILLARY'S NUMBERS HEAD SOUTH

BYLINE: Dick Morris

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 804 words


HILLARY for Senate? It's a lot less likely after a Feb. 26 Fox News/Opinion
Dynamics poll showing that her national favorability has dropped from 63 percent
to 53 percent since speculation about her candidacy began. The cruel irony is
that while America loves Hillary as First Lady, standing unflappably by her man,
the closer she gets to an actual candidacy, the more her popularity fades.

Her sudden rise in voter approval and equally sudden drop is chronicled in the
Fox News polling since the November election (see table).

As impeachment gathered momentum, awe at Hillary's grace under pressure moved
her popularity to heights it had not seen since she first burst on our national
consciousness. Just as Jackie Kennedy's dignity and poise after her husband's
assassination moved the nation, Hillary's calm, self-possessed bearing during
what must have been weeks of excruciating embarrassment impressed us all. Her
favorability rating moved from 54 percent on Nov. 13 to a high of 63 percent on
Jan. 29.

But as talk of her Senate candidacy has increased, she has come across as just
another politician. The very discussion about her using her popularity to get
elected has taken the sheen off her image and sent her ratings back down to
earth. In the past four weeks, she has skidded 10 points back to her more
typical favorability rating of 53 percent.

While the talk of her running for the Senate has acclimated people to the idea
of her separate political career, it has diminished the very popularity which
made the concept of Senator Clinton attractive in the first place. This shows
the volatility of her image while her husband is president. When you get your
face on the cover of Time and Newsweek and your ratings drop, something is
wrong.

Hillary would make a wonderful senator. She is a lifelong advocate for women and
children and is happiest in that role. But she should launch her candidacy only
after she has put some distance between herself and her husband's
administration. Her best bet is to run in Illinois, where she grew up, in 2004
against the highly vulnerable, newly elected, right-wing Sen. Peter Fitzgerald.

The Fox News Poll shows the growing popularity of another political wife -
Elizabeth Dole. She not only runs ahead of Vice President Al Gore by 51-36,
she's closing in on Texas Gov. George W. Bush.

It would be a serious blunder to count out Liddy Dole. In a general election,
her candidacy would appeal to women and close the gender gap on which Democrats
depend. In the GOP primary, she would run to the right of Bush - always a good
place to be in the Republican field. With her sterling record at the Red Cross,
she could win. Elizabeth Dole could well be the first woman president.

On the Democratic side, Gore is clearly hurting. The lack of enthusiasm for him
even among Democrats is palpable. While he still runs in first place, he doesn't
even muster a majority of the vote against a very weak field.

Gore needs to come out from Clinton's shadow. In that shade no candidacy can
grow. While the president's job-approval is flourishing, his personal popularity
continues to fall (this week it dropped to a new low of 40 percent).

Of course Gore can't dump on Clinton, but he should distinguish himself by
returning to his original theme of the environment and global climate changes.
Recent weird weather throughout the world makes his gloomy predictions seem more
appropriate than they have ever been. By talking about his old passion, he will
develop a welcome animation and remind voters of his life before Clinton.

In 1968, Nixon harnessed each day's crime headlines to make law and order the
basis of his national agenda. In 2000, Gore must use the fires in Florida, the
mudslides in California, the floods in Texas, and the droughts in the Mid-west
to show Americans the pressing necessity of action in the face of global
warming. Global climate is changing. If the consequences of this shift are as
dire as predicted, the environment will become the issue of the next decade.
With the millennium, voters are in a mood to think in planetary terms and Gore
could be just the man to make the issue work.

Is it not a sad commentary on our politics that the three main contenders are
only able to run because they rode their father's or husband's reputation into
power? Gore's father was a senator as, of course, was Liddy's husband. Bush's
dad was president and his grandfather was a senator. Can't we have a president
who made it on his own like Clinton, Reagan and Carter did? We need a candidate
who vindicates fully Winston Churchill's characterization - "a self-made man who
worships his Creator."


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -Opinion of Hillary Clinton
GRAPH:

-Vote Share of Potential Republican Candidates

-Vote Share of Potential Democratic Candidates

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               6 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 30, 1999, Sunday

NAMELY, YOU HAVE TO COVER YOUR E-BIZ ASSETS

BYLINE: JOSEPH GALLIVAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 057

LENGTH: 571 words


When Laurel Touby set up a website for freelance journalists like herself she
made a classic mistake. After five years of organizing parties for New York
writers, last summer she decided that a community site listing jobs and
apartments might be not only useful, but lucrative.

With her inner entrepreneur on fire she surfed over to Network Solutions and
registered the domain name hireminds.com (geddit?), and just to be certain,
higherminds.com too, pointing the latter to the former. Then she told all her
contacts to spread the word about "Hire Minds" and sat back to watch her traffic
boom.

Her mistake was in not thinking to register the trademark, "hire minds." Up the
road in Boston, one David Hayes was setting up his own website, this one listing
jobs in high tech (left brain and right brain), which he called hire-minds.com.
Mr Hayes had the good sense to check to see if the trademark "hire minds" was
available, and seeing it was, jumped at the chance to register it.

Call the lawyers.

The problem is, Hayes in Boston may be able legally to keep Touby from
continuing to use her site due to potential confusion among web surfers.
Although hers effectively has two names - "higherminds" and "hireminds" - she
knows from server records that "99.9 percent" of people arrive at her site by
typing in "hireminds." In any case, since trademarks are a fuzzier category than
domain names, two words that sound the same can be covered by one trademark. She
might have to change the name of her site to something completely different.

"This is increasingly common," says John Flock, a partner with Kenyon & Kenyon,
a leading law firm specializing in intellectual property issues. Flock, who is
not handling Touby's case, added, "It will remain so until people realize that
creating a domain name is not like picking an e-mail address. You have to treat
a domain like a business, and that means doing a trademark search. It only costs
$245 to register one once it's available. Plus lawyers' fees."

He stresses that the winner in a trademark dispute is often the person who has
been using the name for commercial purposes longer. Hanging on to a domain name,
as cybersquatters do, in the hope of selling it to someone more desperate one
day, does not constitute interstate commerce.

If Touby and Hayes go to court, they will have to show which of them put up
their website first. Touby is confident.

You can search out trademarks for free on the web at
http://trademarks.uspto.gov. There you'll find that Laurel Touby is not the only
one vulnerable. There are plenty of conceptual domain names that have been
registered but not trademarked, such as "higher thought" and "higher authority."
When you consider that in this financial climate a successful website can be
sold down the line to an omnivorous corporation for six or seven figures, it's
worth covering your assets.

*

Speaking of cybersquatters, you can have some fun at their expense. Using the
contact information freely avaible at Network Solutions, send the squatter an
e-mail expressing an interest in buying one of their domains. They'll usually
shoot right back and ask for a ludicrous sum. Once you have them hooked, start
haggling. Invite a friend, and get an auction going. Then at the last minute,
pull out.

I call it eBunking. Hey, there's a word. Maybe I should register it? *Please
send e-mail to

jgallivan@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               7 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 12, 1999, Sunday

SCULPTOR OF GRANITE DON CORNWELL'S TV GROUP SET TO USE RULE CHANGES TO GROW

BYLINE: LISA BROWNLEE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 054

LENGTH: 1070 words


MEET W. Don Cornwell - a gambling man.

The ex-Goldman Sachs investment banker, who won't say what the "W" stands for,
is the quintessential example of why regulators like FCC Chairman Bill Kennard
are letting suits - like him - make power grabs in places with gaggles of TV
stations.

Cornwell, who runs Granite Broadcasting, is out to compete as a rough-and-tumble
broadcaster in a marketplace where consumers can choose from what seems like
zillions of channels.

With nine TV stations reaching 7 percent of the U.S. and annual revenue
approaching $200 million, the Cornwell kingdom is a small dot compared with
giants like CBS, which is joining forces with Viacom in a $37 billion media deal
that has eclipsed all others. The new Viacom would create a $20-billion-plus
revenue colossus that reaches more than a third of the nation's households.

Nevertheless, Cornwell and his partners at Granite - one of only a couple of
publicly traded media companies controlled by an African American - are sitting
on a $100 million cash horde and are ready to wheel and deal their way into
owning second TV stations in markets such as Buffalo, N.Y.; Detroit, and Fresno,
Calif.

The Brooklynite and Harvard M.B.A., who grew up in Tacoma, Wash., before
studying political science at Occidental College in L.A., has had his company's
name thrown around again and again as one that stands to gain from recently
loosened station-ownership restrictions.

"Joy is in the land," says Cornwell, whose 1998 salary and bonus flirted with
the $1 million mark. His own fully diluted Granite stake is valued at nearly $15
million.

The recent warm-up in the regulatory climate, he says, "clearly has lifted the
value of the assets."

That might be putting it mildly.

Cornwell, who fund manager Mario Gabelli describes as a "good strategist," just
made $100 million for his shareholders by selling an Austin, Texas, TV station
to Mel Karmazin's CBS for $160 million in cold cash. Granite had picked up the
operation just four years earlier for a tidy $54 million.

"At the time that we bought it, nobody else wanted to buy it," Cornwell says
today.

But don't think it's just been blind luck. Cornwell, whose favorite book is
black novelist Ralph Ellison's "Invisible Man," is nowhere near being invisible
in the clubby world of broadcasters.

That's because the up-from-nowhere exec, born in Oklahoma, has been pretty much
betting on the right horses since he left Goldman Sachs back in the go-go '80s
after 17 years.

"You should buy when the blood is on the floor," he says, paraphrasing a quote
from Lord Rothschild, the European financier. "All of our stations are worth a
lot more today than when we paid for them."

Cornwell, a 51-year-old husband and father of two, embarked on his second and
current career as he stared at the far side of 40, figuring it would only get
harder to take the risk that comes with leaving a lucrative Wall Street gig.

It was 1988. He found the entrepreneurial opportunity he was seeking in a
federal tax incentive program aimed at promoting minority broadcast ownership.

Cornwell and Granite co-founder, attorney Stuart Beck, lined up some backers
through private equity placements. Early takers included some of his Goldman
Sachs colleagues and talk-show queen Oprah Winfrey.

Granite was born the old-fashioned way, Cornwell says today - "a little equity,
a little debt."

After the first round of financing, Cornwell was ready to pursue one of
Granite's first station deals: an itty-bitty shop in Duluth, Minn., that he
lassoed into his stable for about $10 million.

That deal closed "Oct. 31, 1988," Cornwell says, sounding as though he were
giving his date of birth. "That was a very big day for us."

It was just the beginning.

Aspirations would take Granite through another round of private financing the
following year.

But Cornwell's high hopes collided with the recession of the early '90s. "The
banks stopped lending money," he says. "So in '91, we decided to go public."
Alex. Brown handled the deal.

The high-stakes buying spree continued - especially since Cornwell feared being
too little to survive.

"Two years ago, people thought we were nuts to buy the stations that we bought
in Detroit and San Francisco," says Cornwell,

Now he's sitting pretty on top of stations in two of the nation's largest TV
markets - which means huge duopoly potential.

In fact, he already owns two stations in the San Francisco Bay area - the second
of which he picked up in 1998, hoping the feds were going to let him keep both.

They did.

On Aug. 5, the regulators went even further - voting to change their rules in a
way that would clear obstacles to Granite's double-play in several markets.

Cornwell showed up to work the next day - casual Friday - wearing a smile and
his San Jose news channel shirt. "We opened a bottle of champagne," he says.

Now Cornwell is on the prowl to repeat the duopoly scenario in Detroit and
Buffalo.

"We're very open to opportunities," he says succinctly.

Another decision Cornwell and his partners made a few years back that left some
outsiders scratching their heads: betting on WB - the upstart network owned by
Gerald Levin's Time Warner.

Granite's two WB affiliates "are growing like weeds," says Cornwell, who adds
that advertising revenue for those stations - in Detroit and San Francisco - is
up more than 20 percent so far this year. "The fourth quarter looks like it's
going to be a blowout with both of them."

Cornwell's other stations - ABC, NBC, and CBS affiliates - are "nowhere near
what the WBs are doing, even in the best of circumstances," he adds.

That's because their audiences aren't really growing.

And some much-needed suppliers of ad money have buttoned up their purses.

Take Hollywood. Tinseltown is normally full of big spenders, Cornwell says. But
this year - with studios reluctant to waste money advertising against big-budget
movies like "Phantom Menace" - the third quarter looks like "a train wreck" for
some Big Three network affiliates.

Personal profileName: W. Don CornwellCareer: Co-founder, chairman and CEO of
Granite BroadcastingAge: 51Family: Married; two childrenLives:
BrooklynEducation: B.A., Political Science, Occidental College; M.B.A.,
HarvardHobbies: Learning to play golf; reading


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY: W. Don Cornwell is savoring his second career.Ismael Roldan

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               8 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          September 23, 1999, Thursday

NEW BAZAAR-INA CLEANS HOUSE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 009

LENGTH: 879 words


IT was always going to be hard, filling the shoes of the brilliant and
universally loved Harper's Bazaar editor Liz Tilberis. But it looks like her
successor, Kate Betts, has decided to change the whole wardrobe rather than try
to fit in those pumps.

The way I hear it, there has been a "reign of terror" since Betts jumped ship
from Conde Nast's Vogue to Hearst's Harper's Bazaar. Even while she was having
her baby, Kate was reportedly firing stalwarts of the late Tilberis.

When Betts got fully into action after Labor Day, they say the program moved
into high gear.

"She was obviously taught well by [Vogue's] Anna Wintour - get rid of anyone who
displayed any loyalty to the people who went before you," says one editor who
still has her job. "It has been quite brutal and the climate here is dismal."

I understand about 60 percent of the Tilberisstaff has quit or been fired. A
spokeswoman for Bazaar could neither confirm nor deny that figure, but merely
said: "There are always changes when a new editor takes over. There are several
key editors from Liz's day still there."

The spokeswoman is right, to a degree. But in the case of Tilberis, who died in
April after a long and spirited battle against ovarian cancer, one might have
argued "steady as she goes."

The staff and the advertisers loved Liz - as witnessed by the tribute issue in
June, which brought tears to the eyes of anyone who'd ever crossed her path.

Betts is certainly entitled to set up her own brain trust. But I'm told she has
unnecessarily upset Tilberis' troops by castigating them for being "like a
sorority," decorating their cubicles with family pictures and, generally,
carrying on like nice people rather than lip-glossed killers.

*

Keep your head down, Bill

AMONG the Clintons' prospective new neighbors in Chappaqua is a Westchester
institution since the days of Teddy Roosevelt - the ultra-conservative Campfire
Club of America.

Some Campfire members dining at Nirvana the other night were heard spluttering
into their curries about the first family's choice of a retirement abode. They
vowed not to let the Clintons or the Secret Service curtail their weekend
activities, which include skeet shooting and target practice using very loud
guns.

*

Golden Gateway to N.Y.

OUT in San Francisco, they like to pretend New York doesn't exist, but Bay City
notable John Traina does have a soft spot for the Big Apple. The Faberg
collector, who's the ex-husband (among many) of novelist Danielle Steel, just
threw a glittering party to mark the S.F. Opera's opening and salute to David
Niven Jr., who came with local society doyenne Denise Hale. John now owns the
fabled Spreckles mansion and is redoing the ballroom as an exact replica of the
fondly remembered Manhattan nightspot El Morocco.

*

'Art' of the deal, literally

THE General Motors Building on Fifth Avenue may turn out to be the best trophy
property Donald Trump ever bought for himself. I hear all the city's major art
museums - including the Met and MoMA - are pitching The Donald to give them
occupancy of the glorious plaza in front of the tower for a sculpture gallery.
Trump will go along with whichever proposal he likes best and is really keen
about the idea of bringing art to the people.

*

Bob is Boss' kind of guy

LOOK for former Madison Square Garden President Bob Gutkowski to play a key role
in George Steinbrenner's grand plan to develop his own cable sports network.
Gutkowski has the inside track to buy the underachieving NHL Islanders, a team
that would fit perfectly with the Yankees and the New Jersey Nets. And The Boss
and Gutkowski go back a long and friendly way - to the days when Bob did the
contract with George for The Bombers' TV rights, a deal that allowed
Steinbrenner to make the Yankees the best club money could buy.

*

Douglas is knot yet ready

AFTER talking to a few people who are going to the joint birthday party for
Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones Saturday night at Michael's Manhattan
home, I'm not convinced there won't be any public declaration of an engagement.

Sure, the about-to-be-55 Douglas and the turning-30 Catherine are besotted with
one another. But I still believe he hasn't finalized all the details of his
divorce from longtime, long-suffering wife Diandra and doesn't want to upset her
by announcing his nuptials - a move that could cost him many more millions of
dollars.

Whatever, if and when the major Hollywood player does officially plight his
troth to the British vamp, he'll get a lot of flak over the
older-man-younger-woman situation. That will be quite funny, given that some 25
years ago, Michael was making headlines for dating then-star Brenda Vaccaro -
because she was all of five years older than him.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -Taking a shine to Robin: Young Hanna Taylor Gordon outshines -
literally - superstar Robin Williams at last night's premiere of their World War
II heart-warmer, "Jakob the Liar," at the Sony Lincoln Square.  Dave Allocca /
DMI (S, LCF)
-Clash bash: Stella McCartney - Paul and Linda's kid - joins fellow (we think)
designer John Galliano at a London party the other day for the documentary
"Westway to the World," about the rock band The Clash.  Alpha / Dave Benett (M)

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               9 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           November 30, 1999, Tuesday

LAW FIRMS OUTBID CITY FOR NEW LEGAL EAGLES

BYLINE: David Seifman City Hall Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 417 words


Soaring salaries at private law firms -- as high as $120,000 for recent
graduates -- may make it tough for the city to attract the best and brightest
lawyers, says Corporation Counsel Michael Hess.

With city lawyers starting at just $44,367, Hess said he's looking at ways to
change the strict residency requirement that applies to them. All municipal
employees except those in the uniformed services and those categorized as "hard
to recruit" now have to live in the five boroughs.

"The question is: Would lawyers possibly fall into that type of exemption?" Hess
said. "So far, they haven't. But it's something that should be looked at, I
think, in the interests of representing the city properly in the Law
Department."

Hess said there are still many more applicants than positions in his office,
since young lawyers know they'll be on the front lines much sooner than they
would be at private firms.

"I think the spirit and the morale of the Law Department is terrific these days
and sometimes that's worth a lot of money when you come to work as a young
lawyer as opposed to the cut-throat competition that is found in the large law
firms of New York City," he said.

But he said he's worried that escalating salary wars in the private sector will
make it harder for the city to hire and retain the best lawyers.

"We're up against the issue of someone having $110,000 waved before him," said
Hess. "It's difficult."

Private firms can increase their hourly rates for clients to cover the bigger
salaries. But, as Hess noted, "We don't have hourly rates."

Top city law firms such as Davis Polk & Wardwell now pay $110,000 a year in
salary and bonuses to recent law school graduates. And at least one firm,
Roberts, Sheridan & Kotel, has broken that barrier with $120,000 offers.

In that climate, Hess said, he's looking for innovative ways of "putting money"
into the pockets of the city government's 650 lawyers, including forgiveness or
postponement of law-school loans and waiving the residency rule.

Mayor Giuliani would have to approve any such change.

Stephen Gillers, NYU law professor, said he's sympathetic to Hess' plight.

"Even if you take a tier down, students who go to smaller firms can expect twice
as much than if they go with him," said Gillers.

Thirty years ago, Gillers said, the differential between city and private
service was about 20 percent.

"Today the spread could be ... 200 percent," Gillers said.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MICHAEL HESS Eyes residency law.

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               10 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           January 30, 1999, Saturday

ISLES' TRIO PUTS CLAMPS ON TOP FOES

BYLINE: MARC BERMAN

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 043

LENGTH: 745 words


So far, everything new Islanders coach Bill Stewart has touched has turned to
gold. He has formed two lines of note, starting with a scoring line from right
to left of Ziggy Palffy, Robert Reichel and Bryan Smolinski. It was a unit that
excelled at the end of the 1996-97 season but was broken up because of
Smolinski's desire to play center.

Less-heralded is the checking line of Claude Lapointe, Sergei Nemchinov and Mark
Lawrence that Stewart has woven together to combat the opponent's top line. The
trio has helped key the Isles' two victories under Stewart - 5-2 at Pittsburgh
and 4-1 against Boston.

Last night, Stewart's Isles went for the trifecta when they faced league
powerhouse Phoenix at the Coliseum.

In the first two games under Stewart, the Lapointe-Nemchinov-Lawrence line
bottled up Pittsburgh's Jaromir Jagr unit, then so frustrated Boston's Jason
Allison-Dmitri Khristich-Sergei Samsonov trio that Pat Burns benched the line
for most of the third period.

"Going against the Jagr line, you get excited," said Lawrence, a power forward
who is making the most of his mid-December callup from Lowell. "I used to watch
these guys on TV and finally I get to check them and try to shut them down. It's
rewarding at the end of the night to be a even or a plus."

Against Phoenix, the checking unit was expected to face the vaunted Keith
Tkachuk-Jeremy Roenick tandem that has helped the Coyotes post a 24-12-8 record.
Tkachuk has hurt the Isles in the last two meetings, scoring the game-winning
goal in the third period in each game. The Isles, with Lawrence playing the best
game of his career, hung tough against the Coyotes in their last meeting Dec. 20
in Phoenix, losing 4-2 in a game that included a last-second empty-net goal.

Lawrence has noticed the dramatic change in the locker room since Stewart took
over for Milbury nine days ago.

"He's bringing a new life to the team," Lawrence said. "I think he's going to do
really good here. He was in a role [as an assistant] where he was confined. He
could only do so much. But he knows how to win and he's bringing the work ethic
and winning attitude down to us."

Mariusz Czerkawski recently became a scapegoat of the lax climate that prevailed
under Milbury. Czerkawski will return to the lineup after being scratched
Tuesday for showing up three minutes before a team meeting. Czerkawski will play
on a line with Craig Janney and Trevor Linden.

Also back is 6-foot-9 defenseman Zdeno Chara, who nearly lost his right eye in a
frightening incident Tuesday when Allison's flying skate blade slashed Chara's
face. One of the cuts missed Chara's eye by less than a quarter-inch, leaving
everyone in the locker room thinking about Isles prospect Jeff Libby, who lost
his eye in a career-ending injury in November when he was slashed by a skate
blade while playing for their AHL affiliate in Lowell.

"I feel really lucky sitting here and still being able to play hockey," said
Chara, who received 32 stitches.

Chara said he will wear a visor for a couple of games and will see how he likes
it before committing to using one long-term.

Libby recently told The Post's Jay Greenberg: "I wouldn't tell any player that
they should wear a visor. They just have to realize the only person they are
going to hurt are themselves. Hopefully, seeing what I went through will guide
them." *Rookie left wing Mike Watt was scratched last night for the second
straight game. Stewart said Watt is coming off the flu and wants him 100
percent. Coming out of the lineup for Czerkawski was recently promoted
defenseman Ted Crowley.

There is a good chance that Felix Potvin, no matter how Tommy Salo fared last
night, will get the call tonight in Ottawa in the second game of a back-to-back.
Salo made his third straight start last night.

"Felix is feeling very good about himself right now," Stewart said. "He's going
to get his shot sooner or later."

Despite the two straight wins that came on the heels of Milbury's 0-10-1 slide,
Stewart refuses to be remotely satisfied. "We have to keep everything in
perspective," Stewart said. "Two games; what's that? It's nothing. We don't want
to think this mess is cleaned up. It's not cleaned up. We've got a long way to
go."


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLAUDE-Y DAYS: Claude Lapointe's work on a checking line with Mark
Lawrence and Sergei Nemchinov has helped the Islanders get off to a good start
under new coach Bill Stewart.New York Post: Charles Wenzelberg

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               11 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 9, 1999, Friday

REJIGGERING THE B00KS: ABC GETS CONTROL OF DISNEY'S HYPERION

BYLINE: KEITH J. KELLY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 032

LENGTH: 512 words


The Walt Disney Co. has split its publishing operations, dispatching the
Hyperion adult book imprint under control of its ABC subsidiary.

At the same time, it gives worldwide responsibilities to its U.S. magazine group
and Buena Vista Publishing children's book unit - but keeps the group under its
Disney consumer products division.

Steve Murphy, the senior vice president in charge of Buena Vista Publishing, now
becomes managing director of Disney Worldwide Publishing, a new post.

Robert Miller, the vice president in charge of Hyperion, is bumped up to senior
vice president, managing director of Hyperion and now reports to Robert Iger,
chairman of the ABC Group and president, Walt Disney International.

Asked why the publishing unit was giving up its adult publishing arm, Murphy
said, "Give up? I would not use that phrase...Basically, the new line-up means
we'll be able to come up with book and magazine products with an eye toward
global release."

He keeps children's book publishing, which makes tie-in books for movies such as
"The Lion King," "Tarzan" and "Toy Story II" as well as the kids' book series
from actress Julie Andrews.

The moves have no impact on Disney's Fairchild subsidiary, which publishes Jane,
W, and Women's Wear Daily. That group had already been under the ABC umbrella.

Hyperion, which publishes adult fiction and non-fiction, such as Richard
Carlson's "Don't Sweat the Small Stuff," also has had success publishing books
for ABC-TV stars including Oprah Winfrey's "Making the Connection," Drew Carey's
"Dirty Jokes and Beer" and Tim Allen's "Don't Stand Too Close to a Naked Man."

Miller said that since both imprint and TV network are primarily engaged in
producing creative products for adult audiences the restructuring is "just a
closer fit."

One top magazine executive, Kim MacLeod, group magazine publisher, had already
turned in her resignation before yesterday's announcements in order to join the
investment banking firm of DeSilva and Philipps. She starts in the new post on
Monday and could not be reached.

Murphy said no executive changes are planned as a result of the restructuring.

Magazine publishing has always been an odd fit within Disney. Mag industry
executives say that the Disney corporate climate is such that the top brass can
readily understand why a new movie release can cost $100 million and can be
judged a hit or a flop within a week or two of release, but find it difficult to
understand why it can take five years or more to determine if a new magazine
launch is going to make a profit.

The new line-up could mean more magazines almost instantly. Winnie the Pooh
magazine - now in 30 overseas markets - but not currently in the U.S., could be
coming here, Murphy said.

And it could mean Disney's U.S. magazines such as Discover, Family Fun and
Disney Adventures may be exported to overseas markets, Murphy said.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPANDING THE KINGDOM: Walt Disney is expanding its U.S. Buena Vista
Publishing Group to include overseas publishing.  Bob Iger & Steven Murphy.

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               12 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 18, 1999, Sunday

CLOTHES WILL HAVE A DEGREE OF COOL

BYLINE: ALLYSON LIEBERMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 365 words


In the future, clothes will do more than just look nice.

The coming millennium will bring garments that cool and warm the body, deliver
medicine and even change colors.

And as for those silver-plated, robot-style uniforms imagined in so many sci-fi
movies?

Fear not, fashionistas.

"People expected that kind of future 'Jetsons' look for 1984 - and that never
happened," says Richard Martin, curator of the Costume Institute at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. "It certainly won't happen in the next millennium."

The layered look will go the way of leg warmers, with the emergence of fabrics
that read the body like a thermostat.

"When you're hot, it'll cool you down. And when you're cold, it will
automatically inject heat," says Martin.

In fact, chemical giant DuPont - the company responsible for nylon, polyester
and Lycra - is already working on climate-controlled fabrics, especially for
athletes.

"When you hit the ski slopes today, you wear layer upon layer upon layer. Soon,
you'll only have to wear one layer that will react to the light or wind - and
you'll be warmer than ever," says Arun Aneja, senior research associate at
DuPont.

Other fashion forecasters foresee the creation of clothes that will medicate the
body - like anti-bacterial underwear that will fight infections.

"Biology will marry fashion," says Haysun Hahn, director of Bureau de Style, a
New York fashion-forecasting company. "Fabrics will soon contain vitamins that
you can absorb through the skin and will help maintain your body's moisture. You
won't need to apply eight layers of moisturizer anymore."

Hahn says clean, sleek designs will continue to prevail - but "customized
clothing is where we're headed.

"You'll be able to adjust the color of your T-shirt within minutes so that it
perfectly fits your personality," says Hahn. "You'll even be able to custom-make
a designer outfit that can be delivered to your door the next day."

Shoes, Hahn says, will be made of materials that mold to the feet.

"You'll walk into a store, get your foot wrapped, and the mold will dry in half
an hour. As you stand in it for a while, the cushioning will adjust to your
posture."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               13 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              June 6, 1999, Sunday

EARTH EXHIBIT A FULL 'PLATE' OF FUN

BYLINE: GERSH KUNTZMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 439 words


They're brothers - but the forces of nature conspired to push them apart.

They ended up on opposite sides of the Atlantic Ocean and lost touch, seemingly
forever.

But now, thanks to some geologists at the American Museum of Natural History,
the two red sandstone boulders - separated at birth (the birth of North America,
that is) 370 million years ago - are finally back together.

"They started out in what would later be the Atlantic Ocean yet ended up
thousands of miles apart, one in Scotland, one in upstate New York," said
research scientist Heather Sloan, who is coordinating the museum's new Gottesman
Hall of Planet Earth, which opens to the public next Saturday.

The two rocks sit next to each other on one end of the hall.

Admittedly, there's not much of a family resemblance in the two giant boulders.
The one from Sicar Point, Scotland, is bright orange, while his (its?) brother
from Monticello, in upstate New York, is gray.

"But to a geologist, they look perfectly alike," Sloan said.

The tale of the reunited red sandstone brothers demonstrates the central theme
of the new $20 million hall - the first section of a three-part earth-and-space
center slated to open early next year that will include the redone Hayden
Planetarium.

"Our planet is the result of dynamic, interactive, global processes that
continue to shape it today," she said.

She means plate tectonics: the force of nature that reshuffled the continents
from one huge land mass called Pangea into the seven continents we know today
(eight, if you count India, which smashed into Asia a few hundred million years
ago and is still moving northward, pushing the Himalaya's higher every year).

The forces of nature are only a part of the new hall's mission. Another section
explains why the earth is unique in our solar system in its ability to sustain
life, whether in "sea chimneys" two miles underwater or on the No. 6 train at
rush hour.

Another section of the exhibit deals with the earth's climate. Looking at
sections of a 115,000-year-old core sample of arctic ice, museum goers can see
for themselves the climactic results of meteorite crashes, volcanic activity,
the Industrial Revolution and even the Clean Air Act of 1974.

"You actually can see less particulate matter in the ice after the Clean Air Act
passed," Sloan said. "Even a minor change like that shows up."

And you thought politics was just a bunch of hot air.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROCKY RELATIONS: An upstate boulder and its Scottish cousin illustrate
the continental-drift phenomenon at a new American Museum of Natural History
exhibit.N.Y. Post: Francis Specker

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               14 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            June 9, 1999, Wednesday

HASEK BEST? WIN CUP FIRST

BYLINE: Jay Greenberg

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 061

LENGTH: 775 words


DALLAS - It's up to the human pretzel to put some mustard back into Stanley Cup
Finals that four years in a row have ended in sweeps. Also, to twist arms, along
with his own spine, in gathering a consensus that he is one of the greatest
goaltenders ever.

After an Olympic gold medal, four straight Vezina Trophies and an unprecedented
- for a goalie - back-to-back Most Valuable Player awards, the arguments get
stronger. Perhaps not since Bernie Parent led the Flyers to consecutive Stanley
Cups in 1974 and 1975 has any goalie had a run of night-after-night dominance,
been so absolutely critical to a team's success.

But the Olympic medal was a 10-day deal, the MVPs largely reflective of a change
in the voters' prejudice. Many goalies could have, arguably should have, won MVP
awards in the 35 years it took for the hockey writers to reconsider the taboo.
It is also true Hasek's spectacular numbers are reflective of a very defensive
era.

All the things Hasek has accomplished since establishing himself as a starter at
age 31 thus qualified, he still has become the best goalie of this era. But last
night was the first game Hasek had ever played in a Stanley Cup Final. So
all-time? The jury is not only still out, but is not even waiting for
instructions from the judge.

You have to win Stanley Cups, the NHL's grand prize, to be considered among all
time best in the league. You don't have to win 19 straight playoff series in the
rising heat of May with the best team of the era, as did Billy Smith, might not
even have to attend two or three parades in your honor to earn your place in the
Hall of Fame. That is not going to happen for Hasek, who, barring a trade, will
play out his career for a low-budget team that not only needs to overachieve,
but also play in a weak conference to get this far into the playoffs.

Still, his shot has arrived. And, considering the financial climate, he may
never get another one. So it is not a reach much past the full extension of
Hasek's extraordinary glove hand to suggest that history will judge him by
whether he wins this series or not.

If he leads the Buffalo hunt and Pecas to the promised land in one of the great
upsets ever, he will earn not only a spot in history, but maybe a unique place.
There are some reasons to consider the Sabres a dangerous darkhorse against a
team that, while a two-time Presidents' Trophy winner, has yet to win a Cup. But
the impact of such an offensively-challenged team winning it all would make this
the most dramatic Finals upset since the 7-year-old Flyers knocked off the
Bruins in 1974.

With that stage set, now all Hasek has to do is steal the scene.

"I've won an Olympic medal," he said. "I don't know what it is yet to win the
Stanley Cup. I would like to know how it feels.

"I won the Olympic Gold Medal for the people of the Czech Republic. I want to
win the Stanley Cup for the people of Buffalo.

"It's different when you come as a new player to the NHL. This is my ninth
season, so I know what it means to [NHL players]) to win the Stanley Cup. It
takes a couple of years to know this feeling. I want to do everything to win."

That's exactly what he does, everything he can to stop the puck. He rolls,
twists, flails but always finds one more part of his body to extend, usually
under a lot more control than it appears.

Because Hasek spends more time on the ice than any of the classic goalies in the
past, it is wrong to assume he is guessing. Hasek, an accomplished chess player,
is usually thinking one move ahead of the shooter, who of course, if he's
thinking at all, is likely already beaten.

"When you are hot, the game slows down in front of you," Hasek says. Of course,
in this series between two defensive minded teams, the game will be plenty slow
enough, but Joe Nieuwendyk and Mike Modano are among the more accomplished
shooters in the NHL and a bigger Dallas team figures to create much more traffic
in front of Hasek than Buffalo can before Ed Belfour.

Of course, this is a goalie who in a sudden death shootout stared down five
consecutive one-on-one challenges to beat Canada at the Nagano Olympics. "That
was the most pressure I have ever felt," Hasek said. "It was only one game, you
lose it, you go home. It's like the last game of the playoffs.

"For me, probably the feeling of winning the Cup will be the same. But like I
said many times, if I win it, then I can tell you what it feels to me. Until I
do, I cannot tell."

And until he does, we cannot tell Hasek's impact on the sport, either, and judge
its place in the game's history.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOMINIK HASEK One more hill to climb.

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               15 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            June 16, 1999, Wednesday

QUAYLE KNOWS HOW TO SPELL RELIEF FOR KIDS

BYLINE: Steve Dunleavy

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 018

LENGTH: 577 words


FORMER Vice President Dan Quayle is as square as a butter box and as exciting as
a turtle farmer.

His life is uncluttered by the vicarious pizza deliveries and his wife is only
running to one office - his.

His hair does not hold up an entire airport for a $200 clip job as did Bill
Clinton.

He doesn't play the saxophone. He doesn't have a Hollywood director telling him
what to do.

As for Barbra Streisand? She wouldn't raise a quarter for him - and he wouldn't
take it, anyway.

But on this particular day on the Third Floor of 1211 Sixth Ave., he said
something that made me recover from the death sentence of all journalists -
boredom.

"There are people now who are doing the reverse of George Wallace, who said you
can't come in," he was telling my colleagues.

"Now they are saying you can't leave."

He was talking about the most horrific mess in the world, the public school
system.

George Wallace refused to let black kids into an all-white school. Now we have
set up a political climate where legions of black kids can't get a school of
their choice.

The so-called intellectual elite oppose any kind of major change.

Vouchers? No, they say. It will kill the system.

Charter schools? Forget it, they sneer. The system will die.

Maybe that's good.

These nitwits say the system is fundamentally great. We know that's bull.

The bureaucratic gangsters have created a system that is truly racist because it
provides a lousy education to more than a million kids - about 80 percent of
whom are black or Hispanic.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle, whose hairstyle, suit, comedy writer and
flack-meister were distinctly absent, said something that raised eyebrows among
some hard-hearted humans.

"There was a teacher who was sued by parents because the teacher gave out too
much homework," he was saying, setting up something for "Saturday Night Live."

"Teachers are afraid of discipline. You will get sued. Dress code, you will get
sued."

And then this breath of fresh square air from a guy who I probably would never
hang out with.

"In Indianapolis [that is where Dan is from] a mother came in with her child ...
[who had been disciplined] the teacher thought, OK here is a lawsuit," he was
saying.

Yeah, what happened then?

Well, the mother said she wanted her kid to apologize.

"The teacher was dumbfounded," said Dan Quayle.

Dan Quayle might come from Indiana, which is not the most exciting place in the
world.

But he is talking right now to New York, whether he knows it or not.

It costs $9,900 a year to educate kids in the public school system to turn out
morons in this citadel of communication.

And we produce morons.

They were not born morons. They are taught to be morons by a bureaucratic, evil,
political system that keeps pompous asses in control.

How can a Catholic school, a Jewish school, a Muslim school do it for a fraction
of the price? And they do it with every color of the rainbow.

Talk about cutting taxes?

Double the taxes because we have to build more prisons.

When education doesn't kick in, the street beckons.

I know. I was on The Street. Probably, Quayle wasn't, but he knows better than
most.

Dan Quayle, square as a butter box, as exciting as a turtle farmer, lit up some
eyes yesterday.

Yep, George Wallace said you can't come in and now we are saying you can't
leave.

Think about that the next time a public school dropout drops into Sing Sing.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               16 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             August 2, 1999, Monday

MIRACLE METS? YOU GOTTA BELIEVE IT!

BYLINE: Tom Keegan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 069

LENGTH: 891 words


CHICAGO - When things like this start to happen, when a journeyman pitcher in
the midst of a career year out of the bullpen delivers another sterling
performance and also steps up to the plate in the 13th inning and delivers the
game-winning hit, it makes you start to believe in miracles.

It makes you start to believe this otherwise forgettable 1999 season being
played out in the shadow of the historic summer of 1998 is heading toward an
inevitable conclusion, a baseball bash like no other played out at the center of
the universe.

Goodbye one-team town. Hello Subway Series.

Pat Mahomes (5-0, 3.13 ERA) won this 5-4, 13-inning thriller with his bat and
arm and the Mets gained yet more credibility, heading for Milwaukee one-half
game behind the Braves in the National League East.

A change in organizational thinking that was most obvious with the trade for and
subsequent signing of Mike Piazza brought the Mets to where they are and where
they are is in as strong a position to win the NL pennant as any team out there,
including the Braves.

Nearly every move Steve Phillips has made since taking over for fired Joe
McIlvaine early in the 1997 season has strengthened the big league team and
weakened the farm system.

There was a time when such a pattern would have been viewed as a shallow,
quick-fix approach certain to backfire. That still is the case in places such as
Baltimore and Los Angeles, where free agent flops have been the rule.

Not so with the Mets. Maybe people who live in Binghamton and Norfolk have cause
to feel cheated by the new approach of Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Nelson
Doubleday, but New Yorkers have no cause for complaint.

After all, the idea is to field a contending major league team.

"We're going for it," Phillips said yesterday. "Now's the time. You don't know
how many times the opportunity to win presents itself. I think you should go for
it when you can."

Even if it means getting a player, Darryl Hamilton, who makes $3.3 million next
season and $3 million the year after that. Even if it means dealing Jason
Isringhausen, a 26-year-old pitcher with enough stuff to make it to the majors
at the age of 22 for a 37-year-old reliever who didn't make his major league
debut until he was 32.

Look at this way: If Isringhausen can tame his stuff and fit smoothly into a
role, be it as a starter, setup man or closer, the Mets can always buy him back
on the free agent market after the 2001 season.

The Mets can afford to make moves such as these because they can afford to patch
up their mistakes with money.

They can afford to pay Al Leiter $32 million spread out over four years. That's
a lot of money for a player whose arm has thrown as many pitches as Leiter's,
but the Mets' alternative was entering the season with Rick Reed as their ace.

Leiter threw 135 more pitches yesterday and had a career-high 15 strikeouts in
seven innings to show for it.

That same contract - four years, $32 million - was a big price for Robin
Ventura, too. The big-market, third base-starved Cubs, for one, didn't even
bother to contact Ventura's agent.

In today's climate, not going the veteran route is a cop-out for any team that
can afford to do it.

"History shows experience is what wins," Phillips said. "We've done studies and
there is definitely a correlation between age and winning. Experience allows
guys to fall back on something when things aren't going right."

McIlvaine's attempt to build the Mets from within fell short when Isringhausen,
Bill Pulsipher, Paul Wilson and Jay Payton came up lame.

Phillips has gone in the other direction and has parted with some promising
young talent along the way.

"We re-signed the players we got when we gave up prospects," Phillips said. "We
gave up young players for [Dennis] Cook and we re-signed him. We gave up young
players for Leiter and re-signed him. We gave up young players for Piazza and
re-signed him. That nucleus has made us a good team."

A good, old team. So what? There is reason to believe the Mets will contend
again next season, which would make four winning seasons in a row, possibly
back-to-back playoff teams.

Shawon Dunston wasn't delighted to hear the news he had been traded again, but
once he joins the team today he'll feel right at home. The Mets' clubhouse has
become that sort of room.

"He brings energy to the club a little the way Lenny Harris and Tony Phillips
did last year," assistant general manager Omar Minaya said. "Veterans accept the
toughness it takes to play in New York. It becomes a challenge."

While working in the Rangers' front office, Minaya watched the Mets from afar
and didn't see a team made for New York.

"Having grown up in New York, I know there is a lot to compete with," Minaya
said. "You can go to Broadway. You can go to Jones Beach. You can go anyplace.
Names like Rickey Henderson and Shawon Dunston, maybe at this point in their
careers those names don't work everywhere. Those names work in New York."

These Mets work in New York. It's beginning to look as if they'll be working
deep into October and won't even have to leave home to do it.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEIT'S OUT: Mets starter Al Leiter, who struck out personal-best 15
over seven innings, delivers to plate in Amazin's 5-4, 13-inning win over Cubs
yesterday at Wrigley.  Associated Press

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               17 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 17, 1999, Tuesday

BORIS' PM PICK WINS PARLIAMENT APPROVAL

BYLINE: NILES LATHEM

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 373 words


The Russian Parliament approved Vladimir Putin as prime minister yesterday as
President Boris Yeltsin promised that the elevation of the ex-KGB spymaster
would not lead to authoritarian rule.

In a tense and uncertain political climate, the Russian Duma reluctantly voted
233-84 to approve Putin, Yeltsin's fifth prime minister in 17 months, rather
than risk a costly political confrontation with the increasingly erratic Russian
president.

"Putin's appointment isn't his fault," declared Nikolai Kharitonov, leader of
the Agrarian Party.

Immediately following the vote, Yeltsin sought to ease growing fears in the
Russian media and political circles that Putin will administer a declaration of
a state of emergency and the suspension of parliamentary elections in order to
keep Yeltsin in power after his term expires next year.

"Once again I firmly and resolutely state as president of the country; there
will be no state of emergency," Yeltsin told reporters in his residence during a
meeting with Putin.

Putin also tried to be reassuring.

"The essential goal is to ensure law and order and hold honest and fair
parliamentary elections. None of these tasks can be carried out without
installing order in the country," Putin said.

Putin also promised that he would keep the Cabinet of recently-fired Prime
Minister Sergei Stepashin intact and pledged there would be no changes in
Russia's economic or foreign policy.

Yeltsin's decision to appoint the 42-year-old Putin as prime minister and
designated successor last week has been widely seen as an attempt by the
influential circles of advisers known as "the Family," to head off corruption
investigations and extend their sphere of influence beyond the expiration of
Yeltsin's second and final term in office.

There has been speculation in the Russian media that the inner circle of
advisers led by Yeltsin's daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko, felt threatened by the
emergence of a new party called the Fatherland led by Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov,
and they planned to use the crisis of the Islamic uprising in Dagestan to
declare a state of emergency.

Yeltsin yesterday promised "rigid measures" against the Islamic militants
without imposing emergency rule.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               18 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            October 1, 1999, Friday

ONCE AGAIN, DETROIT READY TO TAKE WING

BYLINE: Larry Brooks

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 100

LENGTH: 1715 words


THE NHL skates into the 21st century without Wayne Gretzky to serve as a bridge
between past and future. Hockey's loss, the Rangers' loss, our loss. But the
league will survive The Great One's exit. The question is whether the league can
prosper as an entertainment vehicle while more and more owners make a greater
commitment to holding the militant hard line than to attempting to capture the
silver hardware.

Erasure of the crease video review rule is a stride in the proper direction. So,
too, we think, is the risk-free overtime format that will showcase the league's
brightest talents. The better teams should gain more points in the four-on-four
that will reward skill rather than obstruction. We do, however, fear that the
passel of technocrats behind benches will commit to ruining third periods of
tied games in order to get their guaranteed regulation points. And we wish that
the league would devote as much time worrying about the first 60 minutes of its
product as it did to the final, extra five.

An NHL outlook, then, for the final time this century.

THE EAST1. OTTAWA - Senator ownership has succeeded in vilifying Alexei Yashin
to the extent that even if the Hart Trophy nominee ever wanted to return, he
can't. So the question surrounding this well-constructed team is what Ottawa
will eventually bring back in a deal for its contract-breaking former captain.
With young Marian Hossa poised to stamp an indelible imprint on the league, with
depth everywhere except in nets, Ottawa could win the Cup if astute GM Marshall
Johnston gets a top-flight power winger as part of a Yashin deal.

2. PITTSBURGH - Had The Great Jagr been healthy, had Alex Kovalev been healthy,
the admirable Penguins would probably have gone to the Finals last spring.
Talent throughout an organization that has been shepherded superbly by Craig
Patrick, even when he has to make Kevin Hatcher-for-Peter Popovic deals. Tom
Barrasso, entering the final year of his contract prior to unrestricted free
agency, is the most overlooked elite goaltender of the decade.

3. WASHINGTON - Where oh where has the old Smythe gone? To the Southeast, that's
where, with the Caps, Panthers, Hurricanes, Lightning and Thrashers contending
for a guaranteed conference top three seed. Satisfied a year ago after coming in
second to the Red Wings in 1998, the injury-wrecked Caps were demoralized by the
end of the year. But there's a plethora of talent and legs within the
organization.

4. BUFFALO - Beaten fairly in the Finals, the Sabres nevertheless turned into
crybabies after last June's ultimate defeat. It's a shame, because the
organization has built itself a nifty team, one that has more to recommend it
than just Dominik Hasek, taking one last victory tour across North America.
Ownership cares and is willing to spend more than it takes in, to win. Lindy
Ruff is as well-respected by his players as any coach in the league.

5. DEVILS - One playoff-round victory in the last four seasons has tarnished the
luster from the 1995 Cup, but the Devils go about their business as if nothing's
wrong. It's time for Jason Arnott to step up, it's time for Brian Rolston to
emerge. Robbie Ftorek, who claims he was "terrible" coaching against the
Penguins, had best be better than that or he'll have the opportunity to be
terrible somewhere else by the time the ball drops at Times Square.

6. RANGERS - Neil Smith will allow the season to go by without addressing the
hole in the team's middle. If not a deal for Alexei Yashin or Keith Primeau,
perhaps at some stage a cheaper one for a Jeremy Roenick, Doug Gilmour or Robert
Reichel. Nothing need be done immediately. Age-old questions at every position.
A question, too, whether a band of mercenaries can become a team. That's the
challenge facing John Muckler, the right man for the job.

7. PHILADELPHIA - The last ride for this group, probably for Bob Clarke, almost
certainly for Roger Neilson. Young center Simon Gagne is going to get the
opportunity to succeed. The defense is dreadfully slow, however. Eric Lindros
and John LeClair both are in the final seasons of their contracts. If the Flyers
bumble, Ed Snider may order GM Clarke to pick up the phone and dial ... yikes,
Mike Keenan's number.

8. BOSTON - Byron Dafoe, the most important player in the organization, hasn't
seen a shot yet, hard-balled by Harry Sinden and tight-fisted ownership that
turned its back on both Dimitri Khristich and Tim Taylor. The obsession in
Boston over holding down the payroll seems likely to derail a team that seemed
so promising a few months ago. And though Pat Burns has done a marvelous job,
his track record suggests a short shelf-life.

9. TORONTO - Despite being exposed by Buffalo in the tournament, the Maple Leafs
sat on a pat hand. Curtis Joseph will win games by himself, but not so many as a
year ago, nor enough in an extremely competitive conference. Very weak in the
middle behind Mats Sundin, completely disorganized in its own end of the ice.

10. FLORIDA - If Pavel Bure is healthy, the Russian Rocket is alone worth the
price of admission. Oleg Kvasha is a terrific talent, but what in the world
really happened to Rob Niedermayer's career? Sean Burke the No. 1 to carry the
team at this stage of his career? Don't think so.

11. CAROLINA - It's bad enough what owner Peter Karmanos did to the city of
Hartford, but now that he's in Raleigh having sold fewer than 5,000 season
tickets, we've learned that he's ordered GM Jim Rutherford to cut the payroll
from a current $32 million to $20M within three years. Which means that Keith
Primeau is probably on his way out and that the Hurricanes will rest comfortably
in their new house of oblivion.

12. TAMPA BAY - Dan Cloutier has a team for himself, one that will be much more
competitive than in years. Vincent Lecavalier is everything the Rangers only
pray Pavel Brendl becomes.

13. MONTREAL - The folks running the team at Molson's have not only dropped the
torch, they've melted it down into scrap iron to sell for profit. A scandal.

14. ISLANDERS - How is it possible that among all the people to own the
Islanders this decade, John Pickett turns out to have been the best of the lot?
If we were making policy at this newspaper, the Islanders would be covered like
the minor-league organization they've become, which is to say they wouldn't be
covered at all.

15. ATLANTA - We dare Ted Turner to put the same kind of schlock on CNN as he
will on the ice this season. THE WEST1. DETROIT - Not only are the Red Wings and
Scotty Bowman very, very hungry to re-establish Hockeytown as Titletown,
Detroit's Round 2 loss to Colorado last spring gave the team an extra month to
recuperate after two straight seasons of playing into June. Brendan Shanahan and
Sergei Fedorov will rebound, and Chris Chelios is now apparently committed to
his new team. Old on defense, though young Jiri Fischer could be the next Chris
Pronger.

2. DALLAS - Talent oozing from everywhere, but it could get very messy indeed if
coach Ken Hitchcock continues to disproportionately press the pedal to the
metal. We hear that he's already told Brett Hull that the Golden Brett should be
prepared to accept his role as a checking winger. Mike Modano, who played the
Finals with a broken wrist, is as good as they come. So is Derien Hatcher.

3. COLORADO - The Avalanche are a shell of their former selves, but in a
division with Edmonton, Calgary and Vancouver, that doesn't even matter. Peter
Forsberg is out until December, maybe January, which means that Bob Hartley
probably will overwork the gallant Joe Sakic beyond all measure of sanity.

4. ST. LOUIS - Superior coach in Joel Quenneville, elite defensemen in Al
MacInnis and Chris Pronger, talent up top with Pierre Turgeon, Pavol Demitra and
Johan Hecht, the Blues only hope that Roman Turek can carry the team in nets as
well as Grant Fuhr did the last few seasons.

5. SAN JOSE - Why an ownership would amass so much young talent, then allow it
to be guided by Darryl Sutter is beyond us. This is the year, though, that the
Sharks should make their breakthrough, though it probably will come only after a
coaching change. Still hoping to acquire Claude Lemieux.

6. EDMONTON - Even without Billy Guerin and Mike Grier, both likely to remain
absent for quite some time, the Oil has enough to tread water in the
conference's dreadful bottom half. But if Kevin Lowe shows too much loyalty to
old pal Bill Ranford and gives him too many games, they may not have enough.

7. ANAHEIM - Concerns regarding the health of both Paul Kariya and Teemu Selanne
hang over this team like the black cloud Disney deserves for not bolstering the
supporting cast around the Dynamic Duo.

8. CHICAGO - The black eye George McPhee put on Lorne Molleken doesn't compare
to the black eye the franchise's money-hungry owners have put on the league.
Defense seems better, with Boris Mironov and Bryan McCabe, and Doug Gilmour
should have a significant rebound season.

9. PHOENIX - It's crash-and-burn time in the desert, with an ownership that's
far less interested in producing a winning hockey team than in finding a way for
taxpayers to support a new building. Penny-pinching management has Mikhail
Shtalenkov and Bob Essensa opening in nets rather than Nikolai Khabibulin.

10. LOS ANGELES - Zigmund Palffy gets to lose in a warm-weather climate, which
is something, we guess.

11. CALGARY - Here's a shocker. Marc Savard, whose cockiness got him shipped off
Broadway, reported out of shape to camp. Brian Sutter must have been very
pleased.

12. NASHVILLE - Will the dancing in the aisles continue with a product so
inferior? Wait, isn't that Garth Brooks on defense?

13. VANCOUVER - Brian Burke, Mr. Fiscal Responsibility, is paying Andrew Cassels
$2.5M to play and Dave Gagner another $1.8M not to play. Good thing everyone
around the league knows less than the GM, or he'd have to tell us so, himself.
PREDICTIONSEAST FINALS - Ottawa over Buffalo.

WEST FINALS - Detroit over San Jose.

CUP FINALS - Detroit over Ottawa.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ICE SHOW: After last season's second-round playoff ouster, Brendan
Shanahan (left) and Red Wings are hungry to reclaim Stanley Cup from a talented
Star team led by Joe Nieuwendyk (right).AP photos

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               19 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            October 31, 1999, Sunday

CANNON CLASSIC: OCT. 4, 1956 - AUTUMN FOR SAL MAGLIE

BYLINE: Jimmy Cannon

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 080

LENGTH: 894 words


THE frost, drifting out of 40 summers, clasped Sal Maglie's arm, hardening the
muscles as cold freezes water. Cynical is he, having no use for dreams, patient
as the old become with time, a man made spectacular by desire, who has known
obscurity and hard times. Sal Maglie won the first game of the World Series at
Ebbets Field yesterday, struck out 10 batters and beat the Yankees, 6-3. Toy man
am I, concerned with games, a silly reporter of pageants arranged to kill an
afternoon, and what Sal Maglie did yesterday was unimportant and shall not
change our lives. But, because I know him, who moves jerkily as if his
stiff-boned body ached, sad of appearance because he earns a living prolonging
his boyhood, I consider him a glorious man.

No man is small who does what he is paid for with an artist's purity. We all
should be joyous because one of our species has dignity and fights off the years
which are mankind's most ferocious enemies. The human race is measured by
centuries but we live from day to night, all of us on our way to the grave,
growing wiser but slower, leaving some of what we have behind us in every
season. Now, approaching 40, elderly as ballplayers go, Sal Maglie won his first
World Series game after two failures with the Giants and only last week pitched
his first no-run, no-hit game.

We all are improved by the likes of Sal Maglie, no matter what his trade,
because this is a rare man who knows the foe is time but works at his job with a
manual laborer's splendor. The right arm, sweated by the August heat of the
Mexican League and tightened by pitching in a snowfall in an outlaw federation
in Canada, stiffened in the first inning. He had been forced to throw his
practice pitches in left field because there was a ceremony around home plate as
President Eisenhower shook hands with the managers, coaches, the players of both
teams and the umpires before the game.

The luck that has been his all summer through appeared to have run out in the
first inning. He made Hank Bauer hit a ground ball to Jackie Robinson but Enos
Slaughter's ball skipped in a leaping jump past Gil Hodges for a single.

Then it was Mickey Mantle who is the greatest batter in baseball. The curve ball
broke sluggishly. Mantle, who was batting lefthanded, hit it over the right
field wall, across Bedford Av. and deep into the parking lot on the other side
of the street. There it was, the score two to nothing against this sun-down
team.

Sal Maglie seemed to have paid his fee for getting old in a young man's sport.
But, after walking Yogi Berra, Sal Maglie struck out Moose Skowron and Gil
McDougald. He walked tenderly toward the dugout, the way he has done since his
spine was injured, the way a man cautiously walks across unfamiliar terrain, in
the dark, expecting to trip. But only the grieving look of him was dramatic
because Sal Maglie is not a man who defaces what he does with bathos. *In the
second the Dodgers tied it when Jackie Robinson, who has the same instincts as
Maglie but can't conceal them, hit a home run and Carl Furillo doubled home
Hodges to tie the score. The frost held the arm in the third and Sal Maglie
couldn't shake it warm. The first two batters, Bauer and Slaughter, got on but
neither Mantle, Yogi Berra nor Skowron could hit that tormenting curve ball past
an infielder. Summer was back in that winter arm as if he had borrowed the
climate from some long ago August.

The third gave Maglie a three-run lead because Hodges hit a home run. He is a
quiet man and he is in all the guides for not getting a hit in seven consecutive
Series games in '52. But this home run scored Pee Wee Reese and Duke Snider
before him and the President of the United States stood up and applauded as he
loped around the bases in his oddly inconspicuous way. Sandy Amoros gave him a
final fun with a single after Roy Campanella had doubled in the fourth.

In the Yankee fourth inning Billy Martin, who is of the same breed and plays
this game with a fierce dedication, had struck another home run off him.
Sauntering around the rim of the mound Maglie punished himself with
self-depreciating gestures of disgust.

"I didn't bear down on that pitch," Sal Maglie told me afterwards in the
dressing room. "I wasn't careful and I went down the middle with it." *He was
almost a goner in the fifth. Bauer and Mantle were on with one out and Walter
Alston, who manages the Dodgers, came out to lay him off.

"You're not throwing like you threw before," Alston told Sal Maglie.

"I'd like to stay in," Sal Maglie told his manager. "I'll be all right."

After that inning, in the alley-way back of the dugout, Doc Wendler rubbed the
arm with a liquid from a bottle labeled "Athletic Hot Stuff, a Powerful Counter
Irritant." The trainer massaged the cold arm warm because the Yankees didn't
make a run after that.

Sal Maglie's explanation was simple and thrilling in an understated way.

"I just lucked it out," Sal Maglie said.

No one asked him but he was positive about one matter.

"I got more thrills out of this," said Sal Maglie, "than the no-hitter."


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRITTY DIGNITY: Sal Maglie, nearing age 40, rears back against Yankees
in Game 1 of 1956 World Series. Maglie won game, but his Dodgers lost Series in
seven to Yankees - with Maglie taking hard-luck loss in Game 5 as Don Larsen
hurled perfect game.AP

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               20 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 30, 1999, Thursday

WEDDED DISS AS NYERS LOSE ITCH TO HITCH

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 437 words


More New Yorkers are living longer -- but many are living alone.

The number of weddings in the Big Apple has dropped to a 21-year low, new city
figures show. At the same time, the number of deaths is at a 100-year low.

There were a mere 53,661 marriage licenses issued here in 1998 compared to
80,027 the year before, according to the Health Department's annual report on
births, weddings, deaths and infant-mortality rates.

"It used to be so active that people were practically [backed up] onto the
Brooklyn Bridge," waiting for marriage licenses at the Municipal Building, said
First Deputy City Clerk Raymond Teatum. "It's much quieter now."

The last time so few couples got hitched was in 1977, when 52,804 said "I do."

Teatum couldn't explain the sudden downturn.

But he and demographic experts noted that thousand of couples made mad dashes to
the altar in 1996 and 1997-- hoping to avoid complicated changes in federal
immigration laws that took effect in April 1998.

"It was absolute murder -- it was like we had an after-Christmas sale going on,"
Teatum said.

Carl Haub, a demographer for the nonprofit Population Reference Bureau in
Washington, said the city's decline is huge -- but that marriages nationwide are
dropping.

"In part, it's reflective of a national trend. People are waiting longer to get
married," Haub noted.

He speculated that Baby Boomers who were going to get married have done so.

"There were 75 million people born during the Baby Boom. The age of the youngest
Baby Boomer is 36," Haub said.

Some in the wedding industry said they felt the effect of the drop, but others
didn't.

"Actually, we've found business is quite brisk, and I expect it to probably be
brisker [in the year 2000]," said Lesley Rigler, owner of the Miriam Rigler
bridal shop in Midtown.

But Cesar Roquel, manager of Bruno's Bakery Corp. in lower Manhattan, which
specializes in wedding cakes, said his shop has been hit hard.

"Business is much slower than in the past," he said. "I don't know why. Maybe
people are trying to save money or something."

Meanwhile, the city's death toll came in at an all-time low -- 61,010 last year.
The city began keeping records at the end of the last century, listing 67,503
deaths for the three-year period from 1898 through 1900.

Haub said the number of deaths nationwide is holding steady -- because, even
though the population is growing, life expectancy is slowly increasing.

But he thinks the city may be affected by a high influx of immigrants, who are
young, and the loss of seniors who resettle in warmer climates each year.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               21 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 15, 1999, Sunday

THE HIDDEN LIFE OF RADIO TALK QUEEN DR. LAURA

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 2270 words


Nearly 20 million people across the nation tune in to "The Dr. Laura Show" every
day, and thousands call in to get abused and berated for admitting their flaws
and imperfections. But who is Dr. Laura Schlessinger? What is she really like?
In "Dr. Laura: The Unauthorized Biography," author Vickie L. Bane turns the
tables on the radio guru and reveals the hidden life of Dr. Laura. Here are some
excerpts.

Dr. Laura "is this tremendously angry, rageful woman, and she has this forum to
dump it on people."DR. CAROLE LIEBERMAN, ASST. CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY
AT UCLA

FROM the instant Laura C. Schlessinger, Ph.D., stepped out the door of the
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport in Texas, she should have felt the heat.

It was the third of March, 1997, and a sunny 73 degrees - temperature, it
seemed, every bit as warm as her welcome.

In town to speak at two different charitable events, "Dr. Laura," as she bills
herself, had left her husband, Lew Bishop, and their 11-year-old son, Deryk, at
home, in the family's sprawling house in Hidden Hills, just across the freeway
from Calabasas, Calif.

That, in itself, was rare for Dr. Laura, who prided herself on being, first and
foremost, "my kid's mom" - the kind of mom, she told her millions of listeners
nearly every weekday, who put family first and career somewhere further down the
line.

And the kind of talk-radio host who expected the same moral stance from her
fans.

Without qualification.

"Welcome to the program," Dr. Laura would say at the start of each call to her
three-hour, five-day-a-week, interactive, moral-advice show.

But the warm welcome belied the verbal lickings her callers got if they were not
living up to her tough moral code of family values - a code that excludes, among
other things, sex out of wedlock, divorce if kids are involved, and leaving
children in child care.

A CALLERNOW, if she had ever listened to Dr. Laura previously, a caller like
Jennifer, the unwed mother of a 3-year-old, really should have known better.

Jennifer called in to confess a second pregnancy by another live-in boyfriend.

"So he's not anxious to get married, is that right?" queried the good doctor.

"No, he is actually," claimed Jennifer. "We know we're going to be together ..."

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," broke in Dr. Laura, who has heard this all before. "Is he
the father of the other kid?"

"That was another infidelity," explained Jennifer, adding, "We are in the '90s
and things just happen."

"I see. You woke up in the middle of the night pregnant, not ever having had
intercourse with the man you aren't married to," answered Dr. Laura,
sarcastically.

"I knew that in the 1990s something had to be different. What kind of crap are
you handing me, woman? People got pregnant by intercourse since the beginning of
humankind. There is nothing new in the 1990s."

"I'm animal [sic] enough to admit how I got pregnant," explained Jennifer. "As
things go, people are a lot more liberal now ..."

"I'm not," chimed in Dr. Laura. "You're pregnant out of wedlock? Liberal is
good? Is that in the best interest of the kid?"

"No, that's not what I'm saying," said Jennifer, who then confessed that her
moral dilemma was whether or not she should have an abortion.

"This is the '90s. Just suck it out into a sink. Kill it. Terminate it. Get on
with your life," said Dr. Laura, again, sarcastically.

"Jennifer, you came to the wrong house to get this handout ... This is a life
... That's it," she added, forgoing her usual tendency to use one of her
preferred terms, "slut," or one of her favorite comebacks: "How stupid can you
be and still be able to chew your food?" TUBAL LIGATION'DR. LAURA" hasn't always
been so interested in children or so critical of intercourse out of wedlock.

In the '70s, Laura was nearing 30 and recently divorced.

Looking more toward a career than a family, she went through a tubal ligation.

She was totally consumed with her profession.

"I was a professor at the University of Southern California," Laura said in
1996.

"I thought I was going to win the Nobel Prize."

At the time, Laura was also dating - and sleeping with - her radio talk-show
mentor, Bill Ballance, who recalled being with her at the hospital after the
surgery.

"We were going together at the time that she decided to have her fallopian tubes
tied," confirmed Ballance. "I hadn't had my vasectomy yet."

Dishing more dirt on their 2-year affair, Ballance claims that he and Laura went
to bed on their first date.

Laura has denied that this is true and, in fact, has denied she ever had any
sexual relationship with Ballance.

This, despite the fact that Ballance can produce - and has produced - not only
intimate, sexually suggestive photos of the two together, but letters and
mementos, lovingly signed by Laura.

At any rate, during their relationship Ballance says he remembers being at the
hospital with Laura during most of her recovery period from the tubal ligation.

"Before she received any visitors, she would have her hair spread out
dramatically on the pillow and set herself up as if for a photo session,"
recalled Ballance. "I was there every day.

"I remember one time we were left alone, and I said, 'Laura, I want you to look
me in the eye and tell me the truth.

"'If it's true that you fantasized about the operation being bungled and you
dying in the hospital and the mourners and the things people would say about you
at the funeral and the eulogy I would give and the size of the wreaths people
would give at the grave site, give me a little smile.'

"Her lips turned up, and she roared with laughter and said, 'How did you know?'

"I said, 'Laura, because I know you.'

"It was one of the few times I was able to nail her on her own characteristics,"
said Ballance, chuckling at his own memory. NEW LOVERBY THE time she was 35,
however, Laura had changed her mind about having a baby.

She was no longer seeing Ballance, but instead was cohabiting with Lew Bishop.

On a 1998 PBS program, Laura told the story of how she discovered she wanted to
be pregnant.

"Watching PBS, the 'Nova' series," she said, "they showed the moment where that
one sperm connected with that one egg and 40 minutes later, there is a baby. I
figured, 'OK, sounds good to me.'"

For Laura, it was a telling moment, and she went through the surgery to reverse
the tubal ligation.

"She was trying for well over a year to conceive," recalled her friend Shelley
Herman. "Every month, if she hadn't conceived, she was in tears for days and
depressed and searching. Even to having African fertility gods in her office;
anything it took to try and get her pregnant."

During this period, Laura had a small white dog she considered her
child-in-waiting.

"Laura used to carry around this little teacup-size white dog as a substitute
child," acknowledged Herman.

"She was the first to admit it." INSULTING SPEECHESELEVEN years later Laura was
in Dallas without her son.

And even though she was getting paid $30,000 a pop for two speeches, she did not
appear particularly gleeful.

Laura's first event was a speech and dessert, sponsored by the Assistance League
of Dallas, and between 2,000 and 2,300 people filed into the Grand Kempinski
Hotel anxious to see Dr. Laura in action.

She talked mainly about herself and how she had converted to Judaism and how she
handled her little boy.

Then she opened it up for questions.

"There was not one person who asked a question who wasn't put down in the most
rude fashion I have ever seen," recalled one observer at the event.

The following morning, Laura was guest of honor at a breakfast for advertisers
sponsored by KRLD, the radio station in Dallas that hosted her show.

Rose Saginaw, a Dallas marketing executive and confessed Dr. Laura fan, attended
with about 100 others.

"She said, 'I'm so glad to be in Dallas. You look so good. I expected to find a
bunch of overweight people'" said Saginaw.

"Those were her opening remarks. It was kind of an insulting thing."

Still Saginaw believed Laura was a caring person. "I just thought her ears
weren't hearing what her mouth was saying."

That evening, Dr. Laura spoke to the women's division of the Jewish Federation
of Greater Dallas.

Laura has been described as "hostile" at the event and answered questions from
partygoers "only in monosyllables."

And things went downhill from there, according to D.J. Kassanoff who attended
the event.

"She said when she first wanted to convert, she went to a Reform congregation
and a female rabbi, told her, 'Cool. Sign here.' It took a male rabbi in a
Conservative synagogue to lead her in the right path, she said," according to
Kassanoff.

"In one breath ... through innuendo ... she had put down both professional women
and Reform Judaism. She didn't have the slightest knowledge of her audience,"
Kassanoff said

Afterward, Kassanoff was "so angry," she wrote the Dallas Morning News about Dr.
Laura.

"Many of us believe that she has unfortunately adopted Judaism as one would
embrace a cult, not only revealing her problematic and fragile emotional state,
but also overlooking the obvious - that the inherent beauty of our religion lies
precisely in its variety," said Kassanoff.

"This woman needs help. She probably needs therapy more than anybody I've ever
listened to." 'AN EMBARRASSMENT'AMONG some of her professional colleagues, as
well as her new co-religionists, Dr. Laura is also not universally admired.

Dr. Carole Lieberman, an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at UCLA, was
a featured guest on the station where Laura was broadcasting in 1996.

After listening to Laura, she labeled her "an embarrassment."

"I believe she is a hypocrite and a fraud," said Lieberman.

"How can she possibly tell anybody how to relate to parents and siblings when
she doesn't have a relationship with her own mother and sister?"

Answering such criticisms, Dr. Laura explained her lack of a relationship with
her family in a newspaper article in July 1997.

In it, she revealed how her parents' unhappy marriage and subsequent divorce
affected the family.

"I did not grow up in a happy, healthy home," wrote Laura,

"I can say that there was little love, affection and bonding shown in our home."

Laura has rarely spoken about her first marriage, to New York dentist Michael
Rudolph, which lasted a little more than two years.

But a former colleague, Dr. Norton Kristy, recalls her commenting that "marriage
isn't for me" and that she was "not interested in any relationship in which the
guy is seeking marriage."

"I recall that she said, in very global terms, that she was 'never going to be
under the thumb of a man again,'" Kristy said.

"I had the sense that she felt very controlled, inhibited, and [that she was]
denied her dignity in her first marriage, and that she was thrilled to be out of
it."

After moving to California to escape the marriage to Rudolph, Laura had to face
the demise of her parents' marriage almost immediately.

Her father, Monty, and mother, Lundy, separated on April 19, 1977, after 30
years, eight months and one day of married life.

"When my sister and I became adults," Laura said, "our different styles of
coping with those familial challenges resulted in our having little in common.

"After our parents divorced, the stresses worsened to the point where all four
of us evolved into completely isolated entities."

Laura's mother, Lundy, who was 52 at the time of her divorce, did not have a
substantial rsum, since most of her years had been spent as a housewife.

Laura has told several reporters in recent years that after her parents'
divorce, she hired her mother as an office receptionist.

Although she has never said how long her mother stayed, she has said,
repeatedly, that they parted ways when she tried to get her mother, who could
not type, to take lessons.

"I said, 'I need somebody to type,' and she said, 'Then you need somebody
else,'" Laura told The Washington Post in 1995.

"She packed up her stuff and exited my life."

Biography magazine, however, reported that Lundy did not walk out, but was
fired.

By the time People's John Griffiths interviewed Laura in 1994, she told him she
had not spoken to her mother for over eight years.

"Laura said her mother's refusal to learn to type or to do any office things
stemmed more from arrogance. She said her mother was afraid of failure,"
recalled Griffiths.

Laura also told Griffiths she had no idea where her mother was living, but she
thought it was in New York.

In reality, Lundy was living alone in a first-floor apartment in an exclusive
suburb of Los Angeles, less than a half-hour's drive from Laura's front door.

Lieberman has concluded that Dr. Laura is "a menace to society" and the problem
is Dr. Laura herself.

"She reacts to callers based upon her own problems, her childhood," said
Lieberman.

"She is this tremendously angry, rageful woman, and she has this forum to dump
it on people."

From the book "Dr. Laura Schlessinger: The Unauthorized Biography" by Vickie L.
Bane. Copyright ] 1999 by Vickie L. Bane. Reprinted by arrangement with St.
Martin's Press, Inc., New York, N.Y.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: THOUGH DR. LAURA ADVISES ON HOW TO RELATE TO PARENTS AND SIBLINGS, SHE
ADMITS SHE DIDN'T GROW UP IN A HAPPY, HEALTHY HOME. AP
About 20 million people across the nation tune in Dr. Laura's radio show every
weekday to listen to the guru's dose of moral wisdom and common-sense advice,
which are often sprinkled with verbal abuse and put-downs.AP

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               22 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          October 20, 1999, Wednesday

MIGHTY ATLAS LIFTS CENTRAL PARK SOUTH

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 034

LENGTH: 676 words


'THEY'RE genuflecting to the table," our waitress joked when we asked why her
colleagues at Atlas were crawling on all fours. Then she explained that a man
who just left the restaurant had lost his wallet. And though it was surely
stolen, the sympathetic crew was giving one last look around.

It's too early to genuflect to Atlas. But that night, it served the four best
meat dishes I have ever tasted at the same meal. Days later, it returned a
friend's belt left in the ladies' room by messenger. Six-week-old Atlas is
behaving so remarkably, you worry about jinxing it.

Welcome to Restaurant Row of the Damned, or Central Park South between Fifth and
Seventh avenues. Your host is that turbaned Indian fellow standing in front of
Nirvana, where I have not had a decent meal in 20 years of trying. He is the
night watchman of these culinarily blighted blocks, crammed with Netsuke joints
and pyramids of airport-bound luggage.

Here, new restaurants close instantly, like Mack's Seafood, for which beloved
old Rumpelmayer's was obliterated. In a nod to that loss, Atlas' dessert list
includes an ice cream and sorbet combo they call Rumpeldinger's Ice-Cargots - a
play on the name of Atlas' owners, the low-profile Hemmerdinger family who run
the Atco real estate organization. (The Ice-Cargots are not as good as
"Chocolate Eclipse" - an "extreme Ring-Ding," a friend complimented it.)

The Hemmerdingers can afford their roll of the dice: They own the building at 40
Central Park South they also call home. But spot them points for laughing off
the outdated malarkey that locals won't dine on a street full of mammoth hotels;
three very hot places, HeartBeat, American Place and Peacock Alley, are all in
hotels on just such a two-block stretch.

For Atlas, they got Bogdanow Partners Architects, creator of sparkling Celadon,
to dream up a clubby womb of burnished wood with a curving bar, pinpoint ceiling
lights and vermilion and earth-tone accents. They hired a manager from Gramercy
Tavern and Babbo, and an executive chef, Thomas Beres, who worked at the right
hand of Beacon superstar Waldy Malouf.

The whole gang is on "nice" pills. Stroll by and they sweet-talk you into
checking out their warm mix of tables, banquettes and two giant round booths
that are seductive enough to send John Rocker out whistling "I Love New York."
They coddled us into a state of infantile bliss that began with Cosmopolitans
poured at the table out of metal shakers, and wine adroitly served in
250-milliliter or 500-milliliter "fillips."

But it was the food that was so good that left us wondering if they could keep
it up - or if we had been recognized. Beres' contemporary American menu is
tinged with the usual "global accents" and some unusual ones, like foie gras
tucked inside a poached, ginger gold apple ($16), a whipcrack of contrasting
textures and flavors. Or mushroom and cheese-filled pansotti pasta ($12), an
earthy, autumnal joy.

And, wow, that quartet from carnivore heaven - roast squab ($28), blood-red in
the center, suffused with foie gras and champagne jus; grilled pork chop ($27),
enriched with black truffle oil; thick grilled strip steak ($32) with blue
cheese butter in port wine/black pepper sauce, oozing juicy excitement from
every pore; and maple-coated roast chicken $25).

Could they do it again? On a lunch visit, I flipped for wasabi gravlax and
sesame-seared tuna with miso vinaigrette ($16), and the world's most upscale
grilled cheese sandwich ($14), fresh mozzarella on rosemary-sundried bread with
tomato soup.

I asked about the customer who had been robbed a few nights earlier. It turned
out he had returned to his hotel and found his full wallet waiting for him at
the concierge. Miracles are happening on Central Park South.

YOU CAN E-MAIL COMMENTS TO: SCUOZZO@NYPOST.COM

-----

ATLAS

40 CENTRAL PARK SOUTH; (212) 759-9191


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At 6-week-old Atlas, on Central Park South, a world-class staff has
created a contemporary American menu tinged with the usual "global accents." G.
N. Miller

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               23 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 15, 1999, Wednesday

IS THIS COLD WAR II?  U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATIONS THREATENED BY STATE DEPARTMENT BUG
SCANDAL

BYLINE: NILES LATHEM

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 036

LENGTH: 1254 words


THE State Department's Office of Oceans and International Environmental
Scientific Affairs would hardly seem a place where vital national security
secrets are kept.

Not like the office next to it in the State Department building - namely the
Office of Newly Independent States, the bureau that handles Russia and the
former Soviet republics.

But it was the obscure OIESA, a forum for things like whale-saving, that is now
at the center of the biggest espionage scandal since the collapse of the Berlin
Wall.

It was in OIESA's spacious seventh-floor conference room that FBI
counter-intelligence agents discovered "The Bug" - a sophisticated listening
device that was being serviced outside by Russian embassy official Stanislav
Borisovich Gusev.  It was, according one U.S. intelligence official, one of the
boldest, most aggressive espionage operations ever seen in Washington.

The device, no larger than a dime, was concealed in a wooden strip of molding in
the conference room and screwed in and painted over. It was able to secretly
record lengthy conversations in the conference room and then broadcast the data
in compressed form in a single intense "microburst," that was activated by
equipment that Gusev had hidden in a tissue box in his car.

The FBI stumbled onto Gusev only by chance last summer. It was shocked at how
crude but brazen the operation was. There are still many questions about this
bizarre incident that Washington and Moscow have yet to answer.

How did Gusev, who never stepped foot inside the State Department building, get
the bug in the molding?

Was there a mole inside the State Department who helped him? Are there more bugs
planted in federal buildings?

And why were the Russians so intent on listening in on obscure scientific
conversations in the first place?

Could it be that the FBI fed the Russian SVR spy agency disinformation, trying
to convince Moscow that the conference room was being used by scientists when it
was really being used by diplomats from the office next door?

Whatever the truth, the sheer audacity of the operation - placing a bug on the
seventh floor of the State Department headquarters, where Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright and other top diplomats have their offices - infuriated U.S.
government officials so much so that they decided to make a highly public issue
out of it.

Gusev was sent home to his employers in the technical section of the SVR on last
Friday's Aeroflot flight.

"This is obviously a very serious breach," fumed Deputy Attorney General Eric
Holder. "This episode should be a stark reminder to all of us in government that
despite the thawing of tensions between competing nations, government facilities
and personnel remain a desirable target for foreign intelligence services,"
added Assistant Secretary of State David Carpenter.

In fact, the Russian intelligence apparatus in the U.S. is - unbelievably - now
as large as it ever was during the dark days of the Cold War.

The conflict in Kosovo is largely responsible for this. Russia bitterly opposed
NATO's bombing campaign of Serbia, its longtime ally, and cranked up its
military and political espionage activities - which had focused on obtaining
economic and technological secrets - accordingly.

During the war, two Russian spy trawlers were placed in the Mediterranean and
Adriatic Seas. U.S. defense intelligence analysts believed the Russians were
giving the Yugoslav army critical details about movements of NATO aircraft.

The FBI also quietly arrested and expelled two Russian diplomats - one at the
United Nations in New York and one in Washington, D.C., but did not announce the
incidents because the Clinton administration was eager not to damage ties with
Moscow any further during the NATO operation, sources said.

Suddenly Yeltsin and other Russian government officials, who once openly
welcomed U.S. economic aid and advice on how to run a democracy, were chafing at
what they saw as the growing American dominance on the world stage.

Since Kosovo relations have worsened, the Russians have staged bomber exercises
near Alaska and NATO member Iceland in recent moths. They have also placed a
submarine off the Pacific coast to play cat and mouse games with U.S. Trident
subs that are based in Washington state and San Diego, Calif.

This coincided with an explosion of tit-for-tat spy arrests.On Nov. 18, Russia's
FSB domestic security service charged nuclear specialist Igor Sutyagin of
Moscow's prestigious USA and Canada Institute with high treason.

Eleven days later, U.S. military officials arrested U.S. Navy code breaker
Daniel King on charges of selling secrets to the Russians.

The Russians immediately retaliated. The next day Russian authorities announced
Cheri Leberknight; a second secretary in the political section of the U.S.
embassy in Moscow was caught "red handed," trying to obtain military secrets
from a Russian citizen.

She and her pet cat were put on a plane to Vienna last week.

The FBI, content to continue to allow Gusev to service his device in the State
Department while they fed Moscow disinformation and searched for more bugs, was
forced to roll up the operation after Leberknight's arrest. Why?

Officials feared that the Russians would pull back operations in the current
climate. But Gusev didn't disappoint them. He showed up with all his listening
equipment right on schedule at noon last Wednesday and was arrested while
smoking a cigarette on a park bench outside the State Department.

Efforts to keep the episode quiet fell flat when outraged State Department
officials began leaking details of Gusev's arrest to Internet news services last
Wednesday night.

All this intrigue comes at a time when President Clinton and Russian President
Boris Yeltsin, who once described each other as "partners," are engaged in a
growing confrontation over Russia's brute force tactics in Chechnya.

Last week, the ailing Yeltsin left the hospital against doctor's advice to make
a high-profile trip to China, another antagonist of America, where he picked up
an endorsement of his Chechnya war. But more ominously, Yeltsin issued a
bellicose statement reminding Clinton that Russia is still a nuclear power.

And he and Chinese leader Jiang Zemin signed a series of documents pledging to
work together to stop America's global dominance.

Perhaps not so coincidentally, the next day, the FBI after a nine-month probe,
decided to announce the arrest of Wen Ho Lee, a former nuclear weapons physicist
at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, on charges of selling nuclear secrets to
Beijing.

Clinton administration officials deny that a new Cold War is coming, pointing
out that Russia and China have too much economically riding on improved ties
with the West.

But all sides agree that the spying won't stop - in good times or bad. As CIA
Director George Tenet pointed out to reporters last week: "We're not living in a
new world. People who think we don't need to be vigilant about
counter-intelligence, who think the world has changed, are wrong."


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Once-warm relations between Russian leader Boris Yeltsin (above, left)
and President Clinton may be threatened by revelations about espionage in the
State Department. Reuters;AP

The FBI announced the arrest of Wen Ho Lee - who's charged with selling nuclear
secrets to Beijing - a day after Russian and Chinese leaders pledged to work
together to stop America's global dominance. AP

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               24 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           March 17, 1999, Wednesday

WARM, FUZZY AND EFFECTIVE

BYLINE: Michael Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 115 words


ABSTRACT:

IN 1963, Timothy Carroll, a 24-year-old from Michigan farm country, was sworn in
as a volunteer in the peace Corps, which was two years old and officially
dedicated then as now to the promotion of "world peace and friendship."

The Peace Corps sent Carroll to northern Nigeria. There, he established a pilot
program in educational TV - the sort of thing Corps placed great faith in then.
"This, you will recall," recalls Carroll, "was back in those glorious days when
we believed we could leapfrog all the deficiencies of the Third World through
technology." Alas, Carroll's work as a promoter of global friendship was
slightly overshadowed by a personal friendship.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               25 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 11, 1999, Tuesday

BLACK LIFTS STAKE IN E-FUNDER

BYLINE: Bloomberg

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 221 words


Black raises stake in Rare Medium by $10 million to $85 million.

Rare Medium Group Inc. said Apollo Management LP agreed to increase its
investment in the Internet software and venture-capital company to $85 million
from $75 million, in one of the largest private equity investments made in an
Internet company.

Apollo, a New York investment firm led by financier Leon Black, will become Rare
Medium's largest shareholder, with a 25 percent stake. Apollo will also name
three of Rare Medium's seven directors, the company said.

The increased investment by Apollo, one of the country's largest private
investment companies, gives a boost to Rare Medium's effort to expand beyond
selling software into incubating new Internet companies. Rare Medium shares rose
13/16 to 1515/16.

Rare Medium plans to find new Internet companies and give them money and
services in exchange for an equity stake. It's similar to the strategy used by
CMGI Inc., which has stakes worth billions of dollars in companies such as Lycos
Inc.

Rare Medium Group was formed after ICC Technologies Inc. bought
Internet-services company Rare Medium Inc. last year for $45 million. ICC
transformed itself into an Internet company after it sold its Fresh Air
Solutions air-conditioning unit. It changed its name to Rare Medium Group in
March.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               26 of 26 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            May 19, 1999, Wednesday

A SLICE OF LOUISIANA IN THE EAST VILLAGE

BYLINE: CYNTHIA KILIAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 032

LENGTH: 462 words


La Gould Finch

93 Avenue B

(212) 253-6369

THERE is no such thing as a Gould finch. Happily, however, there is La Gould
Finch. This rare bird of a restaurant serves top-flight Cajun, Creole, French
and vegetarian dishes in a parlor setting that goes beyond shabby chic.

La Gould Finch adds a laid-back slice of Louisiana to a scruffy East Village
block that has an increasingly global aura, what with neighbors Mesopotamia and
the French bistro Casimir.

A former bodega, the building has a sweet, if rickety pink exterior featuring
flower-filled window boxes and a kitchen that opens onto Sixth Street. Inside,
it's an eyeful of flea-market finds: oriental rugs, gilded deco sconces,
'family" portraits and mismatched upholstered chairs. And look out for that
little step down in middle of the room, it sends the unsuspecting on a surprise
trip.

Inside huge scarlet feather plumes - the kind an exotic dancer might use -
surround a ceiling fan. You might almost think you were in a bordello, given the
flocked velvet wallpaper and red tablecloths.

But the food is anything but a compromise of virtue. Cornbread comes warm and
crunchy-crusted. Barbecued Cajun shrimp arrive in all their tentacled glory,
heads and tails on, the sweet meat delectable dipped in a buttery brown sauce
with rosemary. They're not half as messy to eat as you'd suspect.

Jambalaya is a neat mix of spicy rice, generous chunks of moist chicken, shrimp
and andouille sausage that gently tingles the insides of your cheeks with its
peppery heat. This and another Creole specialty, gumbo, can also be ordered
vegetarian.

One night's smothered chicken special was Delta home cooking at its finest,
pairing browned garlicky legs with herby 'dirty rice" and maque chaux, a corn
succotash minus lima beans. There are also luscious savory and sweet crepes to
be had and during the day, the fritters called beignets.

Chef-owner Rickey Lee Babineaux credits his cooking skills to watching his Aunt
Eula Mae back home in Louisiana. The amiable ex-hair stylist also waits tables
at his micro-staffed place. He's just getting the hang of his new business, so
he might be out of, say, ice cream one night and white wine the next. His guests
don't mind. When it's crowded, he says diners sometimes even 'get up and get it
themselves." Just like home. No wonder everyone's so comfortable here.

The music's terrific, too: Cajun two-step, Bo Diddley, Howlin' Wolf. Tomorrow
night a piano player and Aretha-type vocalist will debut. And the prices will
make your heart sing. Dinner for two with an appetizer, desserts and a bottle of
wine was a bargain $60.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chef/owner Rickey Lee Babineaux of La Gould Finch, also waits tables in
his laid-back East Village restaurant.  Yechiam Gal

           Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
