
                               1 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 28, 2017 Sunday

Trump has 'away' with people Heads for home after climate snub as rest of G-7
fumes

BYLINE: Mary Kay Linge

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 635 words


The United States was the lone holdout on endorsing a global agreement to combat
climate change at the G-7 summit Saturday - but President Trump promised to
decide within days.

"I will make my final decision on the Paris Accord next week!" Trump tweeted
from Italy as the meeting of wealthy democracies concluded.

He arrived back in Washington shortly before 9 p.m.

A joint communique from the G-7 leaders emphasized their near-unanimity on the
climate deal. They pledged to "swiftly implement" limits on greenhouse-gas
emissions and called out the Trump administration for its reluctance to follow
through.

"The United States of America is in the process of reviewing its policies on
climate change and on the Paris Agreement and thus is not in a position to join
the consensus on these topics," the statement read.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel was a bit more harsh in her assessment of
Trump's position. She said it was a "situation of six against one," and called
the discussion "very difficult, not to say very unsatisfactory."

But an exultant Trump ignored the criticism as he wrapped up his nine-day,
four-nation tour with a speech to US and allied military personnel at Naval Air
Station Sigonella on the Italian isle of Sicily.

"I think we hit a home run no matter where we are," he crowed, as he reviewed
trade deals struck in Saudi Arabia, NATO allies' cost-sharing promises and the
G-7's agreements on fighting terrorism and promoting trade.

Calling his trip "a truly historic week for our country," Trump spoke to the
troops - whom he hailed as "the warriors of freedom" - about his push to get
sharp increases in defense spending from NATO allies.

"Other member nations must pay more," he said, to cheers.

NATO members have committed to spending 2 percent of GDP on defense by 2024,
which experts say would reduce pressure on US military spending.

"I will tell you, a big difference over the last year," Trump said. "Money is
actually starting to pour into NATO from countries that would not have been
doing what they're doing now had I not been elected, I can tell you that.

"We're behind NATO all the way, but we want to be treated fairly," he said.

Trump called the G-7 conference "a tremendously productive meeting where I
strengthened American bonds - we have great bonds with other countries - with
some of our closest allies."

He didn't mention the stark climate-change division within the G-7 or the public
grumbling of Merkel and other leaders.

The 2015 Paris climate agreement, championed by President Barack Obama, pledged
industrial nations to steep reductions in carbon emissions.

Trump called global warming "an expensive hoax" in 2014 and criticized the deal
on the campaign trail. "The president is spending time on the topic," said Gary
Cohn, Trump's top economic adviser, Saturday.

Cohn called the G-7 leaders' climate-change talks "a very constructive, very
warm conversation."

"We're all allies all trying to get to right place and be respectful of each
other," Cohn said. "There was a lot of give and take from different countries in
the room. They understand where we are."

Trump spoke to the US troops in Italy just before he left for home aboard Air
Force One.

First Lady Melania Trump listed the highlights of the trip as she introduced the
president to the troops.

"We had the greatest time here. We did a lot of great stuff," she said, before
greeting her husband with a pair of cheek kisses.

"I've got to get the lipstick off," Trump joked as he took the podium.

On his flight back to Washington, Trump put out a series of satisfied
trade-related Twitter messages.

"Bringing hundreds of billions of dollars back to the USA from the Middle East -
which will mean JOBS, JOBS, JOBS!" he wrote.

mlinge@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Homeward bound: President Trump's refusal to commit to a 2015 climate
accord was called a "situation of six against one" by German leader Angela
Merkel at the G-7 summit in Italy, where host Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni
spoke discreetly with Trump. (AFP/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 29, 2017 Wednesday

Schneid and seek

BYLINE: Julia Marsh

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 174 words


State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is trying to hide ­e-mails about his
support of a climate-change policy that's being targeted by President Trump, a
conservative group charged in Manhattan court Tuesday.

The organization, E&E Legal, sued Schneiderman last year claiming he led a group
of AGs in silencing climate-change skeptics.

The group says Schneiderman is refusing to disclose documents that show
collaboration with anti-climate-change activists.

The AG is entitled to keep intra-office communication private, but must hand
over information sent to outside parties. At issue is an October 2015 e-mail
that Schneiderman's aide Christina Harvey sent to her boss and an outside
political consultant, Kristie Stiles.

E&E's lawyer, Francis Menton, says the AG's Office waived any right to keep the
documents private by sending them to the operative. The AG's lawyers say Harvey
just wanted Stiles to print the e-mail, and didn't intend for her to read it.

The judge said she'll rule on the matter in the coming weeks.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 27, 2017 Saturday

Trump may be thawing on climate

BYLINE: Danika Fears

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 194 words


President Trump's stance on climate change is "evolving" after meeting with
European leaders who are making a last-ditch attempt to get him to stay in the
Paris climate accord, a top White House official said Friday.

"He feels much more knowledgeable on the topic today," chief economic adviser
Gary Cohn said at the two-day G-7 summit in Sicily, where world leaders
discussed topics including trade policy, terrorism and economic growth.

"He came here to learn. He came here to get smarter," Cohn said.

Trump talked to other leaders about the "environmental awards" he has received
and told them the issue was "very, very important" to him, Cohn added.

"He didn't want anyone to think he doesn't care about the environment," Cohn
said.

The 2015 Paris accord is meant to reduce carbon emissions and fight climate
change.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, to whom Trump spoke on the sidelines of the
summit a day after criticizing her country on trade, said the G-7 leaders had
made "many arguments" in support of the Paris agreement.

National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster told reporters that Trump would do
"what's best for the American people."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 10, 2017 Monday

NY GOP boss' climate storm

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 229 words


A billionaire climate- change activist has accused New York GOP Chairman Ed Cox
of making "false and defamatory" statements about him while discussing a state
probe of Exxon, The Post has learned.

Tom Steyer, a California hedge-funder who founded the group Next Gen Climate,
had his lawyer send a threatening letter to Cox after objecting to statements
the Republican Party chairman made to the Dailycaller.com. They also sent a
complaint to the Daily Caller.

Cox was commenting on state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's Exxon probe,
which he slammed as a political hit job. Cox also speculated whether Steyer
prodded Schneiderman to launch the Exxon probe, which seeks to determine if the
oil behemoth violated consumer-protection laws by selling fossil fuels without
disclosing its effect on climate change.

"Mr. Cox made false and defamatory statements . . . The media outlet removed Mr.
Cox's false statement from its story after being informed of its grossly
inaccurate and defamatory nature," Steyer spokesman Gil Duran told The Post.

The letter sent to the Daily Caller Foundation in March complained that the
quotes attributed to Cox could be interpreted as saying Steyer "made political
contributions in exchange for influence, access or favors, which is unethical
and/or unlawful."

Cox, in a written response,  did not challenge Steyer's complaint.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 10, 2017 Monday

Media City Planet Earth spin on a BBQ spit

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 229 words


New York magazine goes all-in on global warming in its recent issue, just days
after the G20 summit concluded with 19 countries going one way and the US, after
President Trump pulled the country out of the Paris climate accord, going the
other.

The article by reporter David Wallace-Wells sets the tone by detailing a
doomsday scenario, noting the five mass-extinction events in the Earth's
lifetime (yes, Wallace-Wells plays the extinction card), four of which were
caused by climate change.

While he makes the convincing and well-trod argument that climate scientists
have been timid and self-censoring when it comes to making the political case
for climate change, Wallace-Wells also veers into increasingly hypothetical, and
dire, scenarios that, by his own estimation, would probably occur after most of
the human race was baked into extinction.

Elsewhere, the magazine excerpts a chapter from Bloomberg Businessweek writer
Joshua Green's upcoming book, "Devil's Bargain: Steve Bannon, Donald Trump, and
the Storming of the Presidency." Some cool details are sprinkled in (the
president's controversial strategist has an oil painting of himself dressed as
Napoleon, a gift from Brexit mastermind Nigel Farage), but "Devil's Bargain"
seems to be largely reheated leftovers.

But if Bannon's worst characteristics are news to you, then by all means dive
in.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 23, 2017 Sunday

America's Energy Wins EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 379 words


Forget all the whining over President Trump's withdrawal from the Paris Accord
and claims America isn't doing its share on warming. Truth is, this nation's
role as a leader in the war on climate-change continues to grow.

Even better, as Energy Secretary Rick Perry noted last week, America is also
emerging as a top energy producer: "American innovation and technology is
driving the success - and it's not some international agreement," he said.

Fact is, the nation is cutting carbon emissions, making advances on clean-energy
production and leading the world in renewables. Between 2000 and 2014,
per-capita US emissions plunged nearly 20 percent - from 5.4 metric tons to 4.4.

All this amid rising emissions in the rest of world, notes Fatih Birol, of the
International Energy Agency. America is also the "second-largest market for
solar globally."

Meanwhile, Team Trump has adopted an "all-of-the-above" approach to energy
production, backing oil, gas, coal, nuclear, renewables, fracking - heck,
probably hamsters on wheels if they could gin up enough juice.

The goal, says Perry, echoing Trump's remarks last month, is global "energy
dominance." He cites exports of liquid natural gas, Atlantic and Arctic Ocean
oil and coal as particularly promising.

Indeed, America has already seen jumps in coal exports to Europe, India and
South Korea. And after decades of importing natural gas, the US is now set to
become a net exporter of gas, possibly this year. For that, thank the fracking
boom that's enriching states like Pennsylvania and Texas. (New York also has
natural gas, but to please enviros, Gov. Cuomo banned fracking.)

The good news for America doesn't end there: US energy exports are reducing
world dependence on oil and gas from bad actors - notably, Russia and Middle
East OPEC countries. Ukraine, for example, may soon use US coal to make up for
Russia's cuts in the natural gas it supplies.

Of course, the greenies oppose all fossil-fuel use, and never mind the economic
and political fallout from scrapping it.

But here's the bottom line: The climate-change gains here far eclipse those
elsewhere, even as the nation's energy independence grows. So forget greenie
whining; Americans can rejoice over some truly encouraging energy news.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 29, 2017 Friday

Prez: Warming? Ice try

BYLINE: Joe Tacopino

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 114 words


President Trump mocked the science behind climate change on Thursday night,
tweeting that the frigid East Coast could actually use more global warming.

"In the East, it could be the COLDEST New Year's Eve on record," Trump noted
about the freezing temperatures in New York and other cities.

"Perhaps we could use a little bit of that good old Global Warming that our
Country, but not other countries, was going to pay TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS to
protect against. Bundle up!"

Weather forecasts have temperatures below freezing into the New Year.

Trump has criticized the science behind climate change in the past. His
administration pulled out of the nonbinding Paris Accord.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 17, 2017 Sunday

FRENCH CORRECTION EU says Trump won't quit Paris climate deal

BYLINE: Mary Kay linge and Eileen AJ Connelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 441 words


In a stunning about-face, the Trump administration will not pull out of the
Paris climate deal after all, a European Union official told The Wall Street
Journal on Saturday.

The United States will "not renegotiate the Paris Accord," but instead will
review its terms, European Commissioner for Climate Action and Energy Miguel
Arias Cañete told the newspaper.

White House senior adviser Everett Eissenstat unveiled the new US position at a
meeting Saturday, the Journal said.

But the White House issued a sharp denial.

"There has been no change in the United States' position on the Paris
agreement," said Deputy Press Secretary Lindsay Walters. "As the president has
made abundantly clear, the United States is withdrawing unless we can re-enter
on terms that are more favorable to our country."

Whether or not the Trump administration stays in the climate accord, the US is
expected to significantly reduce its ambition to curb greenhouse-gas emissions -
in line with President Trump's goal of clinching "fairer terms" in the deal, the
Journal reported.

It also capped a week when Trump's overtures toward Democratic leaders on
immigration and tax policy rattled some supporters and cast doubt on the fate of
his core campaign promises.

Trump announced on June 1 that the US would withdraw from the 2015 pact, saying
it imposed wildly unfair environmental standards on American businesses and
workers.

He called the deal signed by 195 nations "draconian," and vowed to stand with
the people of the United States to negotiate a better deal for them.

"I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," the
president said at the time.

It was seen as his most sweeping assertion of an "America first" foreign-policy
doctrine since taking office - and as a victory for Trump's chief strategist,
Steve Bannon, who was fired in August.

Under the accord reached during former President Barack Obama's administration,
the United States had pledged to slash greenhouse-gas emissions and commit up to
$3 billion in aid for poorer countries by 2020.

The decision to leave the agreement drew support from many Republicans, but
condemnation from the other side of the aisle and around the world.

Several governors and mayors, including New York's Bill de Blasio, announced
plans to meet the standards of the Paris agreement in their respective states
and cities without the leadership of the federal government.

Trump's seemingly fluid foreign policy will take center stage this week as he
plunges into the first United Nations General Assembly of his presidency.

Additional reporting by Melkorka Licea

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Great shakes: President Trump appears with French President Emmanuel
Macron in July, amid world opposition to the US leaving the Paris climate
accord. (ZUMAPRESS.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 9, 2017 Saturday

Pay Up, Governor

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 220 words


Gov. Cuomo spent more time in the air than on the ground on his trip to Puerto
Rico last weekend. How does that square with his vow "to show climate
leadership"?

The gov didn't even tour the worst-suffering parts of the island: He merely
spent under three hours giving "attaboys" to relief workers from New York. For
that photo op, he spent 7 ¹/  hours in the air.

As calculated by the German firm Atmosfair (which sells emissions "offsets" to "
climate conscious" air travelers), Cuomo's roundtrip direct flight released
2,233 pounds of carbon dioxide per passenger. Sources say the gov's party had at
least 10.

Aircraft account for about 2.5 percent of global CO2 emissions, and conventional
jet engines also emit carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, nitric oxide and water
vapor, which also adds to the greenhouse effect.

Cuomo's climate plan for New York requires a 40 percent cut in greenhouse gases
from 1990 levels and that 50 percent of electricity come from renewables by
2030. It also targets transportation, which the gov says "has now become the
largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in our state."

The Atmosfair calculator suggests a $690 payment per head to climate-protection
projects to salve the gov's conscience. We'd recommend Cuomo pay that out of his
$25 million campaign warchest.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Blas is fuel of it 'Eco' mayor defends SUV gym trips

BYLINE: Rich Calder and Ruth Brown

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 609 words


Mayor de Blasio says all New Yorkers must change their lifestyle to curb carbon
emissions - well, all except one man: Mayor de Blasio.

Hizzoner portrayed himself as an eco champion on Friday, announcing plans to ban
plastic bags and beef up enforcement against idling vehicles and called on all
his constituents to alter their habits in light of President Trump's withdrawal
from the Paris Climate Accord.

"Everyone in our own life needs to change our habits to start protecting the
Earth," he said in his weekly appearance on WNYC radio.

But when asked to explain why he needs a motorcade of gas-guzzling SUVs to take
him from Gracie Mansion to Park Slope, Brooklyn, just to exercise at a YMCA, he
didn't have an answer - and declined to give up the habit.

"The issue is not cheap symbolism," he said testily.

The question was raised by a caller into the show.

"How about you stepping up your game and leading by example [by] getting out of
your SUV armada?" said the caller, Charles Komanoff, a longtime energy-policy
expert from Manhattan and a Carbon Tax Center founder.

"And if you need to go to the Park Slope Y five days a week rather than a gym
near you, why don't you take mass transit or even once in a while ride a bike
like the vast majority of your fellow New Yorkers so you will know how we are
suffering under a transit system?"

De Blasio defended his rides by noting that his SUV is a "fuel-efficient"
hybrid.

"I wish my life was like everyone else's, but it's not, for obvious reasons. But
again, the issue is not cheap symbolism here. The issue is, are we going to take
action? Are we going to change the way things are done?" he said.

The mayor is ferried to the Y by two SUVs - a regular GMC Yukon XL, which burns
16 mpg in the city, and a Chevrolet Tahoe Hybrid, which is only slightly more
fuel efficient at 20 mpg.

De Blasio also suggested the city would start cracking down on idling cars -
even though his own fleet has been caught waiting with their engines on for up
to an hour outside the gym.

"Idling is a huge problem, and blocking the box is huge problem," the mayor
said. "I will have more to say on that in the coming weeks."

Komanoff, who said he voted for de Blasio in the last election, later told The
Post he was "appalled" by the mayor's "tone deaf" reply to his question.

"This whole 'tale of two cities' thing - I guess he really fancies himself as
one of the little guys," he said, invoking de Blasio's campaign theme. "Most of
us are little guys, and no one looks on him as one of us when he gets ferried
everywhere in his armada."

He said the mayor's fuel-burning trips to the gym set a bad example.

"This is what makes the climate issue such an easy mark for the right wing," he
said. "It's so easy to characterize this [as an issue] the elites drag out to
make the common person feel bad for driving around in a pickup truck."

Big-mother gas guzzlers

Mayor De Blasio goes to the Y in Park Slope approximately four days a week. He
travels with two SUVs - a Chevy Tahoe hybrid (below left) and a GMC Yukon XL
(below right).

Yukon fuel economy: 16 mpg

Tahoe fuel economy: 20 mpg

Toyota Prius fuel economy: 58 mpg

CO2 spewed by mayoral motorcade on each gym trip: 25 pounds

CO2 emissions per year: 2.6 tons

Mayor's helicopter trips: 22 as of December 2016

Fuel economy of NYPD's Bell 412EP chopper: 113 gallons an hour

CO2 emissions: 2,384 pounds per hour

Distance from Gracie Mansion to Park Slope Y: 12 miles

Nearest gym to Gracie Mansion: Regenerate Fitness at 1616 York Ave. 3 blocks
away.

Walking carbon emissions: Practically 0

rbrown@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -No 'roll' model: Mayor de Blasio in his Chevy Tahoe Hybrid, which
ferries him to the Park Slope YMCA. [Paul Martinka]-Chevy Tahoe hybrid [Getty
Images]; GMC Yukon XL [Chad Rachman].

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 1, 2017 Monday

NYT fans need a safe zone

BYLINE: Chris Perez

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 171 words


A movement to boycott The New York Times over a recent climate column by new
pundit Bret Stephens gathered steam on Sunday, with critics promoting
­"#ShowYourCancellation" online.

"I've been a @nytimes loyalist for over 15 years. But hiring a 'climate
agnostic' has gone too far," Heather Randell tweeted Sunday. "I'm canceling.
#showyourcancellation."

Beth Holbrook wrote, "I take offense at BS opinion pieces misrepresenting
scientific facts #Show­YourCancellation."

Marlene Amaro added, "Trusted NYT all my life......oh well."

Stephens, who worked at The Wall Street Journal before arriving at the Times in
April, penned his first column for the Gray Lady last week, headlined "Climate
of Complete Certainty."

It ran online Friday and in print the next day.

In it, Stephens argued that "claiming total certainty about the science" of
climate change - and not accepting both sides of the argument - ultimately
"traduces the spirit of science and creates openings for doubt whenever a
climate claim proves wrong."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 29, 2017 Wednesday

Trump's Clean-Power Play

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 252 words


President Trump's "contempt for clean air, clean water and our clean energy
future endangers the health of our children," thundered Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday.
Please.

Trump's moves to roll back President Barack Obama's draconian restrictions,
notably on coal, and to begin junking Obama's Clean Power Plan, don't doom the
planet - because the Obama policies weren't saving it.

Even under the UN climate-change models that are the epitome of climate science,
the Paris accord that Obama's policies sought to honor would only eliminate a
fraction of the global warming projected through the end of the century.

Yet the restrictions on US energy production would be major job-killers.

Top Democrats occasionally admit that fact - by accident. As a candidate in
2008, Obama was caught on tape admitting he wanted higher electric bills. During
last year's primaries, Hillary Clinton let on that she wanted to "put a lot of
coal miners and coal companies out of business."

The deadly economic cost is why these policies fail when put to a vote: Even the
Congress that passed ObamaCare balked at the anti-warming "cap and trade" bill,
or any other law to cap carbon emissions.

The Clean Power Plan was an effort to use executive power to massively reduce
emissions anyway - but it was losing in the courts.

Trump's move not only helps the economy and delivers on a promise, it also takes
a step toward restoring America's constitutional system, in which Congress
passes laws - not a dictatorial president.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 29, 2017 Saturday

Times journo's 'left' jab

BYLINE: Chris Perez

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 168 words


A New York Times columnist said he's being harangued by the "nasty left" after
they organized a campaign to get him fired and vowed to boycott the paper after
he penned a column questioning those who support climate change.

"After 20 months of being harangued by bullying Trump supporters, I'm reminded
that the nasty left is no different. Perhaps worse," former Wall Street Journal
writer and Trump critic Bret Stephens (above) tweet­ed Friday.

One Twitter user told ­Stephens to "Go eat dog ­d--ks" while another asked,
"When is the Times going to get rid of you?"

In the column, Stephens does not claim that he believes climate change is bogus
but simply asserts that people should listen to both supporters and deniers.

Still, social-media users were defiant in their outrage.

"Each and every one of us should fully boycott the NY Times... Their actions are
inexcusable," wrote one Twitter user. "You cannot be an ostensible
paper-of-record and allow a science denier to spread propaganda."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bret Stephens.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 10, 2017 Wednesday

Delay on climate

BYLINE: Mark Moore , Mark Moore and Mark Moore

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 47 words


President Trump has delayed a decision on whether the United States should pull
out of the 2015 Paris climate-change agreement, as the second meeting of White
House advisers to discuss the pact was postponed Tuesday.

Scheduling conflicts caused the delay, the White House said.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday

Mayor only likes the news Hizz way

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 252 words


Mayor de Blasio came up with a new standard for the press on Friday - cover the
stories that I tell you are important, not the ones I don't like.

During a panel discussion in Brooklyn about the media, the mayor questioned why
reporters "obsessed" over the Puerto Rican Day Parade's decision to honor former
FALN leader Oscar López Rivera - a man that Hizzoner's own police commissioner
labeled a "terrorist."

And de Blasio said it was odd that he keeps getting asked why he travels 12
miles a day in a two-vehicle caravan just to exercise on a stationary bike in
Park Slope, Brooklyn, instead of the Upper East Side near Gracie Mansion. "I
think it's kind of strange to obsess over a gym routine or who's marching in a
parade compared to all the things that actually affect everyday life. I just
don't get it," the mayor said during the interview with BuzzFeed editor-in-chief
Ben Smith.

"I think people really are interested in the stuff that affects their lives. I
would urge journalists to try it."

His comments came as he's being hammered for what he characterized as minor
issues that regular folks don't care about.

He was criticized by environmental advocates for urging New Yorkers to change
their everyday habits to combat climate change at the same time he refused to
alter his gas-guzzling gym routine.

De Blasio said for weeks he would march in the parade. But, in the face of
political heat, he claimed he had been maneuvering all along behind the scenes
to resolve the situation.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 24, 2017 Saturday

Greetings from Miami (suckers!) Blas at mayor-palooza as school crisis looms

BYLINE: Rich Calder , Selim Algar and Danika Fears

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 578 words


Life's a beach for Mayor de Blasio.

Hizzoner fled the concrete jungle Friday for a taxpayer-funded trip to Florida -
soaking in Miami sunshine and shmoozing with other mayors as the fate of 1.1
million New York City students hangs in the balance.

Mayoral control of city schools expires in only one week, but that didn't stop
de Blasio from pushing his progressive agenda at swanky beachfront hotels and
eateries as part of the 85th-annual meeting of the United States Conference of
Mayors.

He's attending the gathering with First Lady Chirlane McCray and seven staffers,
including policy experts and his photographer, according to a City Hall
representative who declined to give the cost of the trip.

McCray brought along two staffers of her own, and three city commissioners also
attended.

De Blasio's sunny getaway left education advocates steaming.

"New York City has never been the mayor's priority," said Mona Davids, head of
the New York City Parents Union, a student advocacy group.

"His agenda has always been establishing a national profile, and he's failed
abysmally in that. So I'm really not surprised that he's going to Miami while
the school-system governance is up in the air."

De Blasio's spokesman, Eric Phillips, announced the trip just a day earlier, on
Thursday evening, in a tweet with a palm-tree emoji.

The mayor kicked off his fun in the sun Friday with a breakfast event at the
Eden Roc Resort, where he sat down with a Politico reporter and spent much of
the interview pontificating about national problems.

"It's clear the White House is not trying to work with mayors," he lamented.

When he did discuss mayoral control over city schools, de Blasio insisted he
"could not express the urgency more," but said the real work would begin,
conveniently, next week.

"I think the action will begin in earnest on Monday, and I will be talking to
all the key leaders on trying to settle the differences and getting this done,"
he said.

Later in the morning, de Blasio delivered remarks at the Fontainbleau Miami
Beach.

He then headed over to Lucali, an outpost of the upscale Brooklyn pizzeria of
the same name, for another speech.

De Blasio joined Miami Beach Mayor Philip Levine for a walking tour of Sunset
Harbor, where they discussed national affairs, such as climate change and the
Paris Agreement.

"President Trump can turn a blind eye to climate change, but we won't - our
cities can't afford it," de Blasio wrote on Facebook.

De Blasio heads back to the city Saturday after several speeches.

Republican mayoral candidate Paul Massey told The Post that de Blasio "needs to
get his priorities straight."

"A million kids will suffer if he loses control of the school system, and there
is a transit crisis that is getting worse every day," he said.

Asked about suggestions that de Blasio should have stayed in New York, City Hall
spokeswoman Freddi Goldstein said: "It's 2017. The mayor has a cellphone."

She added that McCray was there "on city business and has several public
events."

Miami Beach's Web site for the conference lists several "after-parties" for
participants, including a private party at a penthouse.

"Networking never looked so good," it says.

Other planned evening events included a poolside party at the Fontainebleau on
Friday and a beach party on Sunday.

Several high-profile mayors, including Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, did not attend.

rcalder@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postcard of Bill de Blasio with a cigar and a cocktail in Miami.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 29, 2017 Friday

A Horror in The Bronx

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 323 words


Well, so much for Mayor de Blasio's happy talk about rising school safety.

One high-school student is dead, and another is clinging to life after
Wed­nes­day's incident at the Urban Assembly School for Wildlife Conservation in
The Bronx.

Police say Abel Cedeno, 18, plunged a switchblade into the chests of two other
teenagers - apparently after years of bullying and harassment by other students.

The city responded with a massive tightening of security in the building
Thursday, as well as a visit by de Blasio and Chancellor Carmen Fariña. We doubt
his talk about his own worries as a parent was much comfort to the worried
parents.

After all, his kids went to high-performing, low-crime schools. Urban Assembly,
according to what teachers and students say in the city's "school climate"
surveys, hasn't been safe for some time now.

Of course, horror can strike in even the best school. But we've warned that the
mayor's softening of school discipline is risky.

He has made it harder for school-safety agents to arrest students for offenses
such as disorderly conduct, harassment or criminal mischief. And teachers are
prohibited from calling for the assistance of safety agents over acts involving
bullying, vandalism and so on.

Even United Federation of Teachers boss Mike Mulgrew, a strong de Blasio ally,
has questioned some of the changes.

The Manhattan Institute's Max Eden's analysis of school-climate surveys was
another warning sign. He found that the softer approach "intended to help
minority students has hurt them the most."

Fariña's minions responded by making changes to the surveys, which conveniently
makes it harder to measure whether things are getting better or worse.

Greg Floyd, president of the safety agents' union, this year predicted that "the
probability of serious incidents and injuries grows daily."

Let us all pray that the mayor changes course before more children wind up dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Bloomy scion falls for hunter

BYLINE: Emily Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 321 words


The animal lovers of New York society are in an uproar over the hot-and-heavy
romance between Michael Bloomberg's daughter, Georgina, and a trophy-game
hunter.

In November, animal-rights organization the Humane Society gave the Bloomberg
scion its Compassion in Action Award for "her tireless work to protect all
animals."

Little did the org know that her date for the gala at Cipriani was oil company
COO Carlos Arruza Jr. - who can often be seen on social media posing cheerfully
with the gory carcasses of deer, wild boars and wild turkeys that he has gunned
down. We're told that since finding out that Georgina has been fraternizing with
the enemy, Humane Society insiders are not amused. Nor are the folks at the
ASPCA, of which Georgina has also been a vocal supporter.

But in spite of her much-admired concern for four-legged creatures of all
stripes, Georgina, 33, doesn't seem put off by Arruza's bloodthirsty hobbies. On
Wednesday, the professional equestrian addressed Arruza, 36, on Instagram,
writing, "Happy Birthday to the best man Jasper [her 3-year-old son from her
relationship with Argentine horseman Ramiro Quintana] and I have both ever
known."

Also likely to make for awkward conversation at the former mayor and Bloomberg
LP founder's dinner table: While Michael is a staunch gun-control advocate and
climate-change activist, Georgina's new beau - who is the COO of SSI Petroleum -
is an assault-rifle enthusiast. Still, the Florida native doesn't stop at
bullets. According to his Instagram account, he's also keen on spear fishing and
shooting turkeys with a bow and arrow.

Some of Georgina's social media followers seem to have caught on. On her
birthday post, which included four pictures of Arruza, followers snarked,
"Congratulations on ur award from the Humane Society," and, more bluntly,
"Hunting is evil."

The Humane Society, Arruza, and reps for Georgina all declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 18, 2017 Saturday

Whiners at the EPA

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 296 words


Despite an unprecedented revolt by the agency's employees, Scott Pruitt was
confirmed Friday to head the Environmental Protection Agency. But that'll hardly
be the end of the rebellion.

As The New York Times reported, EPA staffers actively lobbied senators to oppose
Pruitt - the kind of political activity normally off-limits for career civil
servants.

Their motive: Like Trump, Pruitt is highly skeptical of the "end all fossil-fuel
use" prescription for combatting climate change, and a big doubter that
renewable-energy sources can meet the nation's needs. More, he's a fierce
opponent of over-regulation.

Like Trump's other nominees, in other words, he understands the real-world
consequences of EPA action, preferring a more balanced approach.

But the EPA is an aggressively activist agency. So its "civil servants" have no
qualms about getting overtly political, and longstanding tradition be damned.

Then, too, Trump has vowed to reduce the EPA's size - which puts comfy EPA jobs
at risk. As one union leader said of the agency protests he helped lead: "It's
in our interests to do this."

Obviously - but it's not necessarily in America's best interests.

Civil servants are supposed to be nonpolitical, disinterested experts who can
professionally execute the orders of their political overseers. Sadly, that's
increasingly not the case - witness the scandalous Obama-era IRS war on Tea
Party nonprofits.

Myron Ebell of Trump's transition team told the Times that the EPA staffers'
campaign to stop Pruitt suggests it's "probably time to look at reforming the
civil service laws."

It certainly is. And that could mean an even bigger earthquake in Washington
than a shift in environmental policies - one the folks at the EPA would regret
even more.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 7, 2017 Friday

Global 'warning' for air travelers

BYLINE: Yaron Steinbuch

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 183 words


Fasten your seat belts - even tighter.

White-knuckle turbulence powerful enough to seriously injure unbuckled
passengers on airplanes could become much more common because of global warming,
a new study finds.

Researchers at the University of Reading in England used supercomputer
simulations to analyze trans-Atlantic turbulence during the winter at around
39,000 feet if the atmosphere contained twice as much carbon dioxide.

Commercial airliners cruise at altitudes of between 30,000 to 40,000 feet.

The average amount of light-to-moderate turbulence would increase by 75 percent
and moderate by 94 percent, the study found.

Moderate-to-severe turbulence would increase by 127 percent, while severe
turbulence would increase by 149 percent.

"Our new study paints the most detailed picture yet of how aircraft turbulence
will respond to climate change," lead researcher Paul Williams said in a
statement.

According to conservative estimates, there are 790 turbulence incidents each
year among US carriers, said the study, published in the journal Advances in
Atmospheric Sciences.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 689 words


From the left: Andrew Cuomo's Worst Nightmare

Gov. Cuomo, suddenly "discovering his inner liberal," has launched a crusade to
unseat all of New York's Republican US House members - an effort "sure to be
spun as an act of Democratic heroism by people who don't know much better,"
observes Ross Barkan at the Village Voice. Yet it "conveniently ignores the
Democratic fight that matters more, and the one Cuomo could tilt if he ever
wanted to" - pushing for a Democratic-controlled state Senate. Why his
reluctance? "A fully Democratic state Legislature would force Cuomo to be far
more liberal than he wants to be." And that's "his nightmare," because "it would
put to death every last triangulating fantasy he holds."

Conservative: Times Recklessly Exposes CIA Operative

The New York Times "seems to be working overtime" to confirm President Trump's
charge that the news media are "the enemy of the American people," contends Marc
Thiessen at The Washington Post. The paper's front page last week "exposed the
identity of the covert operative running the CIA's Iran operations." And not
just his name, but "his alleged role in the killing of a senior Iran-backed
Hezbollah terrorist leader" and in overseeing the hunt for Osama bin Laden -
putting his life, and that of his family, at risk. Says Thiessen: "The Times
justified its shameful exposure" by noting that his name had previously been
published "in news reports" - namely, reports in the Times, though the paper
never said so.

Columnist: Linda Sarsour's Strange Defenders

Liel Leibovitz at Tablet is astounded by a public letter signed by "a roster of
rabbis and Jewish communal leaders" supporting Linda Sarsour, the hard-left
activist whom many see as "a harbinger of a particularly vitriolic strand of
progressive politics that is particularly hostile to Israel and, perhaps, Jews."
Last month at Dartmouth, he says, she refused to answer a white male student's
question because she was discussing "communities of color." In other words,
"your right to speak . . . depends on your group affiliation." The issue, says
Leibovitz, is "whether one is willing to align oneself with a bigot who
proclaims herself a victim while working assiduously to shut up anyone who dares
to question her views." The Anti-Defamation League, he notes, was formed "to
defend us from people like Sarsour" - yet now it's defending her "in a misguided
attempt to appear righteous."

London calling: Could Jeremy Corbyn Possibly Win?

When British Prime Minister Theresa May called a snap election in April, her
Conservative Party was "seen as a shoo-in," notes Andrew Stuttaford at The
Weekly Standard. But as polls open Thursday, Labor challenger Jeremy Corbyn -
once widely "seen as dangerous, dimwitted or both" - is within striking
distance. A series of May missteps, he says, "drew the public's attention away
from where it belonged - on the extremism of a Labor leadership that at times .
. . was strikingly at odds with much of Labor tradition" and a potential prime
minister - Corbyn - with a "poisonous past." If Corbyn wins enough seats to form
a "coalition of chaos" with the Scottish National Party, "jump to one side as
the pound plummets past you."

From the right: A Nationalist Plan for Climate Change

President Trump "has been defending his plan to withdraw from the Paris
climate-change accord on nationalist grounds," says Ramesh Ponnuru at Bloomberg.
But there's a stronger case to be made - "even a stronger nationalist case."
Simply, "the costs of restricting energy use . . . are likely to exceed the
benefits of mitigating global warming." So "it makes more sense to devote
resources to researching how to mitigate and adapt to the effects of warming
than to discourage energy use." Ponnuru notes that "sometimes our interests will
counsel breaking with the rest of the world." But the withdrawal looks
especially bad because of Trump's trash talk about NATO and the World Trade
Organization. "Criticism of Trump," he says, "often dwells on matters of tone at
the expense of substance. But sometimes, and especially in foreign policy, tone
is substance."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Linda Sarsour.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 28, 2017 Saturday

Wine harvest nothing to vine for

BYLINE: Caitlin Dewey

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 138 words


Global wine production plummeted to an almost six-decade low this year - and
that isn't even the worst news.

Thanks to the ravages of climate change, experts say that these sorts of bad
harvests, once considered historic, will likely grow more common in the future,
according to report in The Washington Post.

This week, the International Organization of Vine and Wine, a Paris-based
scientific and technical group, announced that production would fall by roughly
3 billion bottles this year, a drop of more than eight percent from 2016 and the
lowest level seen since 1961. The losses were driven by a trio of extreme
weather events in Italy, Spain and France, three of the world's largest
wine-producing countries. The most-affected regions include those that produce
Bordeaux, Rioja and Chianti, The Washington Post said.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 12, 2017 Sunday

HOO YOU LOOKIN' AT? Photog embarks on quest to save the animal kingdom - by
snapping every single creature in captivity

BYLINE: and SUSANNAH CAHALAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1142 words


Last week poachers broke into a zoo outside of Paris and shot a 4-year-old white
rhino in the head before trying to hack off its horn with a chain saw.

In a world where even our zoos can't safely protect animals threatened by
extinction, people like National Geographic photographer Joel Sartore are needed
more than ever.

Sartore has devoted his life to snapping every single animal species held in
captivity - yes, every single one of the 12,000 creatures held in zoos and
sanctuaries around the world from Tampa, Fla., to Cundinamarca, Colombia.

He has compiled the results of his efforts in a gorgeous new coffee-table book
"The Photo Ark" (National Geographic), out now.

His end goal is ambitious: to build a modern-day visual ark and "halt, or at
least slow, the loss of global diversity."

Time is of the essence. Scientists estimate that every day around 200 plant and
animal species go extinct. At this rate, half of Earth's species will be extinct
by 2100.

"I think of myself as an animal ambassador, a voice for the voiceless," he
writes. "If [readers] look into the eyes of these animals and see what is at
stake, I'm hoping they will learn to care more and find ways that they, too, can
make a difference."

Sartore's mission started with a naked mole rat, whom he photographed against a
white background at the Lincoln Children's Zoo a few miles from his Nebraska
home in 2006. Now, more than a decade later, he has photographed 6,583 animals
and counting. He estimates that the project will take 25 years to complete, but
because the list of animals is ever-growing as new species are discovered and
placed in captivity, he may never finish.

Each animal in his book is pictured against a stark white or black background
because it "levels the playing field. The tortoise counts as much as the hare,
and a mouse is every bit as magnificent as a polar bear," he writes.

But wrangling a polar bear is not as easy as he makes it look. A cast of
characters - including zookeepers, volunteers and his own trained crew - help
build the backdrop, calm the animal and hide the equipment and lights from
particularly anxious critters.

The result, for every specimen, shows the true beauty of our planet's beasts.

Siamese fighting fish

(Betta splendens)

Walk into most pet stores and you'll find a section dedicated to betta fish, one
of the most popular aquarium fish in the world, bred for their aggressive
temperaments. "Known for flaring their fins and fighting whenever they see
another male, these fish have been bred for longer and longer fins for the pet
trade," writes photographer Sartore. This breeding for certain characteristics
has led to a loss of genetic diversity in captivity and the wild. Combine this
with the greater pollution and habitat loss in their native Thailand and now
these fish are "vulnerable," meaning they are on the path to becoming an
endangered species.

Gang-gang cockatoo

(Callocephalon fimbriatum)

Sartore shot this male red-crowned cockatoo at Parrots in Paradise in Glass
House Mountains of Australia, the bird's native home. "[It] was part of a bird
show for tourists," Sartore tells The Post. "He was super smart and ate snacks
throughout the shoot." Like many of the smaller animals in his collection,
Sartore likely shot this bird in a white cloth tent, arranging it so that the
cockatoo would only see the camera lens, allowing him to shoot the bird without
spooking him. The gang-gang cockatoo is beloved for its creaky birdsong that
resembles a "cork being pulled from a wine bottle." Though the gang-gang
cockatoo is not endangered, the destruction of its habitat due to climate change
and fire are considered serious threats to the bird's long-term survival.

Oncilla

(Leopardus tigrinus pardinoides)

One of the smallest wild cats in South America - it weighs between 3 and 6
pounds - the oncilla or "tiger cat" is listed as "vulnerable" on the
International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List due to deforestation
and poaching (their thick, spotted coats are prized). Sartore shot this "really
sweet in temperament and easy to photograph" cat at the Jaime Duque Park in
Cundinamarca, Colombia. There's so much more to learn about these majestic
creatures - and their ilk. Just three years ago, scientists discovered that
identical appearing oncillas located in Brazil were actually different species
with different sets of genes.

Springbok mantis

(Miomantis caffra)

Beware the new girl! Though native to Southern Africa, the springbok mantis
somehow made its way to New Zealand, where the females are wrecking havoc on
local mantis males. Unlike New Zealand's Orthodera novaezealandiae females, the
springboks cannibalize their mates after sex. It isn't pretty: "Females simply
lunge and attack males as they get within striking distance and start consuming
them immediately," zoologist Greg Holwell told Science News. "Sometimes they
start at the head; sometimes they hold them widely in both arms and start in the
middle, looking like they are eating a cob of corn."

Panther chameleons

(Furcifer pardalis)

Sartore photographed these brightly colored chameleons - the female is on top of
the male, which are typically more brightly colored, an example of sexual
dimorphism - at the Dallas World Aquarium in Texas. Chameleons change colors
depending on the environment and the situation. When males fight, they will
often change color and inflate their bodies until one backs down and returns to
his dull base color. Though these animals are not officially threatened in their
native Madagascar, they were exported and sold in the pet trade, dwindling their
numbers in the wild.

Mexican gray wolf

(Canis lupus baileyi)

The Mexican gray wolf is the most endangered animal shown here. This gray wolf,
the rare subspecies of the common wolf, once roamed wild over wide swathes of
Central America, Arizona and New Mexico. But when the wolves started preying on
valuable livestock, humans retaliated - nearly eradicating them from existence.
Thankfully a successful recovery program commenced, and Mexican gray wolves are
once again being introduced into the Blue Range Wilderness in Arizona. They
remain critically endangered.

Chimpanzee

(Pan troglodytes)

By far the cutest picture of the lot, Sartore captured the humor of the baby
chimp at Lowry Park Zoo in Tampa, Fla. "This baby was being raised by human moms
who worked at the zoo. She refused to not be held by a human at all times, so we
had to do the portrait with her caregiver holding on from the waist down, just
out of frame. That made the baby feel safe, secure and even willing to ham it up
a bit for the camera," writes Sartore. Despite the cuteness of the image, the
stark reality is that chimpanzees, the great apes that share 99 percent of our
DNA, are endangered.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Siamese fighting fish. Chimpanzee. Gang-gang cockatoo. Oncilla. Panther
chameleons. Springbok mantis. Mexican gray wolf. (Joel Sartore)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 20, 2017 Monday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by SETH MANDEL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 708 words


China expert: What Beijing Is Thinking About N. Korea

China's policy of using North Korea as a buffer between it and US forces in the
south might be putting the United States and China on a collision course, writes
Minxin Pei at The Atlantic. But that doesn't mean China's going to change its
approach - from Beijing's perspective, "the alternatives are hardly more
palatable." One possibility would be to increase its aid to North Korea to bribe
it back to the negotiating table. But Pyongyang would likely take the money and
run. Another would be to reverse course and work with Washington toward a
reunification of the Korean Peninsula. That, however, might require a US exit
from Korea, which could "fatally undermine the U.S.-led system of alliances in
East Asia."

Iconoclast: Liberals Discover States' Rights

There's a states' rights revolution, notes Charles Lane at The Washington Post.
But this time it's not conservatives leading the charge - it's liberals looking
for relief in the Age of Trump. There's the "Calexit" independence movement in
California. There are also numerous blue-state court challenges to Trump
administration policies. This can be healthy, Lane asserts. The federal
government must enforce civil rights for all and provide for the national
defense. "Beyond that, is it vital that all economic and social policies be
identical from Massachusetts to Texas? Or is there some benefit in
state-by-state experimentation and even a certain amount of competition?" The
United States couldn't survive half-slave and half-free. But we "certainly could
survive if our states' social models were half-red and half-blue . . . We might
even flourish."

RIP Chuck Berry, Rock's First Guitar God

Rock 'n' roll is "too organic and chaotic to be attributed to any one creator,
but if anyone deserves pride of place as its founding father, it's Chuck Berry,"
who died Saturday at 90, writes Dan McLaughlin at National Review. "He was
rock's first 'guitar god,' a complete package who wrote and sang his own songs,
supported them with guitar theatrics, and had his own manic, mesmerizing stage
presence complete with his signature duck walk." Plus, he wrote, "Johnny B.
Goode," arguably "rock's greatest single song. It's one of the first rock songs
to do two things, let alone combine them - tell a story and feature a guitar
solo . . . It's also a song about rock, and the possibilities it offers, even to
a barely literate African-American teen in the age of Jim Crow."

Political reporter: DCers Protesting Themselves Ragged

The hot mantra of Washington, DC: "Protesting is the new brunch." As Katie
Rogers reports in The New York Times, "many residents of this heavily Democratic
area who once attended the occasional protest have adopted resistance to the
Trump administration as a lifestyle." And there's hard data to back it up: "Mike
Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service, said the agency had
received about 200 requests since the start of the year to demonstrate on
parklands in Washington, including the National Mall. There were about 50
requests during the same period last year." Can it last? Probably not. "One
obstacle is protest fatigue," Rogers writes. "Ms. Muskin-Pierret, who attended
the early-morning protest, called the problem of weariness 'so real,' and Ms.
Jones, the college professor, said 'self care' was becoming an important element
of her routine."

Conservative: 'Lukewarmists' the New 'Climate Deniers'

Meet the "lukewarmists," the new rebels of climate science. In the NJ
Star-Ledger, Paul Mulshine explains: "The 'lukewarmist' view is that atmospheric
carbon dioxide has some good effects that may outweigh any negative effects."
Such as that carbon dioxide "makes plants grow faster, thereby literally making
the world more green." As for temperature increases, "the apocalyptic scenarios
pushed by people like Al Gore rely on feedback mechanisms that amplify the
effect of CO-2 - in theory. In practice," the temperature boost will be minor,
and the US effect on that will be negligible because of our reliance on the
relatively clean natural gas. If environmentalists really wanted to help,
Mulshine notes, they'd stop opposing gas pipelines. - Compiled by Seth Mandel

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sunday's Post - Chuck Berry

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday

Germany blitzkrieg vs. Trump

BYLINE: Mark Moore

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 238 words


Germany's foreign minister blasted President Trump for "shortsighted" policies
he said have "weakened" Western nations and damaged the European Union,
according to a report on Monday.

"The shortsighted policies of the American government stand against the
interests of the European Union," Sigmar Gabriel told Agence France-Presse.

"The West has become smaller - at least it has become weaker," he said.

"Anyone who accelerates climate change by weakening environmental protection,
who sells more weapons in conflict zones and who does not want to politically
resolve religious conflicts is putting peace in Europe at risk," he said,
referring to Trump's deal to sell $110 billion worth of arms to Saudi Arabia.

Gabriel's comments come a day after German Chancellor Angela Merkel railed
against Trump  for his comments last week about NATO members and his refusal to
say he would remain in the 2015 Paris climate agreement.

"The times in which we could completely depend on others are on the way out,"
Merkel said on  Sunday.  "I've experienced that in the last few days.
[Europeans] must really take our destiny into our own hands."

On Monday, she continued her assault on Trump during a speech in Berlin, where
she warned against simple answers "in view of the complexity of global
contexts."

"Anyone who puts on national blinkers and has no view of the world around him
will ultimately get lost," Merkel said.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 12, 2017 Sunday

Don is making the grade

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1155 words


President Trump is halfway through his First 100 Days, so it's time to give him
the Ed Koch test. "How am I doin'?" the late New York mayor used to ask, and he
always got an answer.

Trump isn't asking, but he gets a report card anyway. Assessing his start in
three key subject areas, I see a mix of solid hits and key misses, with huge
potential and reasons for optimism.

On Subject No. 1, whether he is keeping his campaign promises, Trump scores an
A. His focus on doing what he said he would do is the best part of his young
presidency because faithfulness is the key to restoring Americans' trust in
government.

Corruption in the halls of power is a perennial problem, but more corrosive
these days is the near universal belief that all politicians say one thing and
do another. Trump was elected largely because he was an outsider untainted with
that baggage, and on that score, he is proving that voters made the right
choice.

His focus on fixing immigration, creating jobs and replacing ObamaCare is
consistent with his main campaign themes. Two others, tax reform and rebuilding
the military, are next in line. Even those who disagree with Trump must concede
he is serious about his pledge to put Americans first.

On Subject No. 2, whether he is delivering results, Trump gets a B. From the
moment of the election, he eyed low-hanging fruit he could pick through
executive orders, which he issued right out of the gate. Those changes already
show impressive gains.

Economic confidence is rising among businesses, entrepreneurs and consumers,
thanks in part to the president's push to keep companies from moving plants and
jobs to Mexico. He meets regularly with corporate titans, small business owners
and unions, all of who have ideas on getting the economy roaring.

Trump's order that federal agencies reduce two regulations for each new one is
boosting animal spirits, and the stock market surge has added more than $2
trillion to national wealth. To top it off, Friday's strong jobs report and firm
wage growth for February add to the happy sense that growth is accelerating.

Something positive also is happening on immigration, with officials saying the
number of people caught trying to enter illegally from Mexico in February was
the lowest in five years. Even The New York Times grudgingly concedes the Trump
effect, saying interviews in America, Mexico and Central America turned up few
people who "quibbled with the idea that President Trump had altered the climate
for immigration."

Simply put, even before the wall is built, America is finally on course to
getting border control and creating an immigration system of our choosing.

The contrast with President Obama's lackluster performance on the economy and
immigration is stark. Good ideas and new presidential leadership are bringing
swift results that Obama never delivered.

Alas, not everything went as Trump planned. His first order on immigration and
refugees had a clumsy rollout and was blocked by the courts, while his second,
though more tailored, is drawing suits from states trying to stop it. It is also
mystifying that the White House can't say what, if anything, officials are doing
to tighten security vetting in the meantime.

Regarding ObamaCare, the complexity of health care guarantees results will not
be immediate, but Trump is not ducking the fight. With legislation roiling the
GOP, he is playing a constructive role by meeting with both sides and
encouraging swift resolution while also staying open to changes. His promise to
help sell the final measure to the public reflects his commitment.

Subject No. 3, working with others, is the least impressive part of the
president's start and earns him a mediocre C.

His lack of political experience shows in his slow, uneven actions in forming a
government. On one hand, his Cabinet is generally first-rate, with Secretary of
Defense James Mattis, Homeland chief John Kelly and Secretary of State Rex
Tillerson looking like stalwart pillars.

On the other hand, the White House has only itself to blame for being behind
schedule in nominating people for the bulk of the 1,100 positions that require
Senate confirmation. Combined with the Democrats' obstruction, the result is too
many empty desks and too many Obama holdovers, some of whom are undermining
Trump by leaking secrets.

Still other leaks are coming from Trump's own team. Unflattering reports about
him cite sources "close to the president" or "people around him," which signals
inner circle discontent. That is troubling so early in an administration.

Most worrisome, Trump often seems like a lone ranger fighting the world. Even
Superman needed help, and governing is a team sport.

His explosive tweets accusing Obama of wiretapping him caught Trump's aides off
guard, and reportedly resulted in him having furious arguments with Steve Bannon
and Reince Priebus.

While Trump is right to suspect he is the victim of dirty tricks started by the
last administration, his accusing Obama personally was a combustible way of
making the point and probably ended any possibility of a constructive
relationship.

Some critics blame Trump's use of Twitter, but he has no intention of giving it
up and I don't blame him. Twitter gives him a fast way of speaking without the
filter of a press corps that is biased and hostile, and conveys a personal touch
that official statements don't.

Yet the advantages disappear when he uses it to pick a fight nobody on his team
is ready for. The all-hands-on-deck alarm pulls everybody into an emergency and
locks him into an agenda that hasn't been discussed and may be a mistake.

It also reinforces fears that Trump is too undisciplined. While his
free-wheeling style is often refreshing, many Americans still find his
unpredictability unnerving.

On other subjects, such as his response to challenges from foreign adversaries,
it is too soon to offer a grade.

When I interviewed Trump before the inauguration, he said he didn't expect to be
tested by Iran, Russia, China and North Korea. "I'm not a game player," he told
me. "They understand me."

Yet many of those powers are indeed testing the new president to see how he
reacts to provocation.

Trump so far has kept his cool while signalling he won't turn the other cheek.
Still, we have no idea how any of this will turn out, so a grade would be
premature.

The domestic report card then shows an A, a B and a C, giving the president a
solid B average for the first 50 days. That's a very good start and there is
opportunity for big improvement when he gets more experience and has his full
team in place.

Here's the best news: We have a president determined to succeed and willing to
work tirelessly to make America great. That's why I remain optimistic.

TRUMP'S REPORT CARD

Keeping campaign promises: A

Delivering results: B

Working with others: C

Average: B

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Trump and report card.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 30, 2017 Sunday

Now he's Mr. Nicer Guy online

BYLINE: Dean Balsamini

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 501 words


His tweets are almost sweet.

Compared to the 34,000 messages he posted before he got into the White House,
President Trump's post-inauguration tweets are kinder, gentler and more
presidential.

Trump joined Twitter in March 2009, and has famously brandished his feed as a
weapon. But the Commander-In-Tweet's 519 communiques since taking office don't
use the word "loser" once, for example.

Before he was president, he tweeted the word 234 times - an average of 8 per 100
days.

The word "stupid" turns up 183 times pre-White House (6.5 times per 100 days),
but not once in his presidency's first 100 days.

Trump implied global warming was fake in 106 pre-presidency tweets, but not in
his first 100 days as the 45th president.

That doesn't mean he's gone all warm and fuzzy.

Trump stepped up his disdain for the media, tweeting "fake news" 32 times since
he took office.

"Don't let the FAKE NEWS tell you that there is big infighting in the Trump
Admin. We are getting along great, and getting major things done!" he claimed on
March 7.

On Saturday, Trump took his latest shot at the Fourth Estate, tweeting:
"Mainstream (FAKE) media refuses to state our long list of achievements,
including 28 legislative signings, strong borders & great optimism!"

Trump's first tweet from @real­donaldtrump was a reminder on May 4, 2009, to "be
sure to tune in and watch Donald Trump on Late Night with David Letterman as he
presents the Top Ten List tonight!"

The tweet garnered the celebrity billionaire a mere 315 likes.

Since then, Trump has tweeted on everything from personal superlatives ("My I.Q.
is one of the highest - and you all know it!") to Obama-bashing ("no idea what
he is doing - incompetent!") - and has picked up 28.4 million followers along
the way, according to the Trump Tweets Archive.

The searchable database debuted in September and is the brainchild of
29-year-old programming whiz Brendan Brown, a Bernie Sanders supporter who voted
for Hillary Clinton in the general election.

"I was emotionally invested in the election like everyone else. I was just
wondering what else [Trump] said," Brown told The Post. "Once it became clear he
was going to win the nomination, [I realized] there was this untapped wealth of
his thoughts on Twitter."

Trump has said he doesn't believe he would be president without Twitter.

"Trump is developing media strategies and political strategies that were never
tested in the laboratory," said Robert Thompson, professor of media and popular
culture at Syracuse University. "In one way he uses Twitter just like so many
other people do, which is you don't think about what you're saying, you don't
send it through any filters. It's communication emerging directly from the id."

Thompson said Trump's post-inauguration tweets are not dominated by "sheer
insult and attack" and the changing tone might reflect "people surrounding him
who have probably been begging him for months to 'knock it off.' ''

dbalsamini@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 19, 2017 Thursday

Earth has a sweat-'16

BYLINE: Sophia Rosenbaum

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


The Earth in 2016 had its hottest year on record, scientists said Wednesday.

Earth's average temperature was 58.69 degrees, 1.69 degrees above the average,
according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

The warming trend marks the third year in a row Earth set a temperature record
since scientists began keeping track in 1880, according to NOAA.

Gavin Schmidt, director of NASA's Goddard Institute of Space Studies, said the
trend is "90 percent" due to man-made problems like greenhouse gases.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

Rays of light The buzziest films and breakout stars you need to know from this
year's Sundance Film Festival

BYLINE: and SARA STEWART

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 662 words


Sundance kicked off Thursday, giving Hollywood actors a chance to show off their
parka and furry-boot fashion sense. More important, the Park City, Utah,
festival offers a first look at films we'll all be talking about through 2017.
Founder Robert Redford designated climate change as this year's main theme, and
his slate has several documentaries on that subject, including "An Inconvenient
Sequel: Truth to Power," Al Gore's follow-up to his 2006 Oscar winner.

But that's not all: Here, culled from 113 films, are the nearly dozen buzzy
titles we're most excited about.

"Manifesto"

Cate Blanchett plays 13 different roles - what more do you need to know? This
experimental film is adapted from an art installation and sees Blanchett
appearing as a homeless man, a Russian choreographer, a glossy American TV
reporter and others in an exploration of the role art plays in society.

"Patti Cake$"

A 23-year-old white girl from New Jersey aims to become a rap superstar in this
comedy from debut feature director Geremy Jasper, who's best known for his music
videos for Florence and the Machine and others. The film stars Australian
actress Danielle Macdonald, with NYC cabaret powerhouse Bridget Everett in a
supporting role.

"Crown Heights"

Based on a true story, this Brooklyn-based drama tells the story of Colin Warner
(Lakeith Stanfield of "Atlanta"), a young man wrongly accused of murder who
spends decades behind bars while his best friend tries to untangle a legal
system stacked against anyone who can't afford a good lawyer.

"XX"

Female-directed horror films are an increasingly formidable subgenre, and this
anthology brings together four shorts, including ones by Karyn Kusama, best
known for "Girlfight," and musician St. Vincent in her directorial debut; actors
include Melanie Lynskey ("Togetherness").

"Call Me By Your Name"

This gay love story set in the 1980s stars Armie Hammer as a 24-year-old scholar
spending the summer in Italy when he falls for a 17-year-old boy (Timothée
Chalamet). Variety compared it with "Brokeback Mountain," so we're not expecting
a happy ending.

"Landline"

Comedian Jenny Slate re-teams with Gillian Robespierre, who directed her in the
wonderful 2014 comedy "Obvious Child." Like that film, this one's set in New
York: Slate plays one of two sisters who discover their father (John Turturro)
is having an affair.

"The Force"

This documentary looks at the Oakland Police Department, following events in
Ferguson, Missouri, and other cities, as it attempts to reform its approach to
law enforcement and rebuild trust among the city's residents.

"Wilson"

This dark comedy has an irresistible pedigree: Adapted by Dan Clowes ("Ghost
World") from his graphic novel about a loudmouthed misanthrope, it's directed by
Craig Johnson, whose last film, "The Skeleton Twins," was the best thing Kristin
Wiig and Bill Hader have done post-"SNL." Woody Harrelson stars in the title
role, and Laura Dern plays his ex and the mother of the child he didn't know he
had.

"Nobody Speak: Hulk Hogan, Gawker and Trials of a Free Press"

The lawsuit filed against Gawker Media by Hulk Hogan was the event that
precipitated the outlet's demise. This doc looks at how it all bodes for free
speech and media.

"Trumped: Inside the Greatest Political Upset of All Time"

Mark Halperin, John Heilemann and Mark McKinnon, who hosted Showtime's "The
Circus: Inside The Greatest Political Show On Earth," bring you this look at the
presidential win that shocked the country - and even, according to some reports,
the winner himself.

"Band Aid"

Prolific writer/actress/musician Zoe Lister-Jones ("Breaking Upwards") makes her
directorial debut with this comedy about a couple (Lister-Jones and Adam Pally)
who form a band to hash out their constant arguments. Joining them on drums is
their neighbor Dave, and as he's played by actual drummer and "Portlandia" star
Fred Armisen, this one sounds like a winner.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Landline" follows two sisters (Jenny Slate, left, and Abby Quinn) who
discover their father, played by John Turturro, is having an affair. Cate
Blanchett (above) plays multiple characters in "Manifesto"; Woody Harrelson
(left) plays a neurotic man who discovers he has a daughter in "Wilson."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday

WATCH & WIN! Keep entertained on Oscars night with The Post's wicked take on
bingo

BYLINE: and Kyle Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 420 words


Why do so many people fail to take the Academy Awards seriously? Remember, this
night is a tender, beautiful, sacred occasion in which you get to bear witness
as the pretty people renew their love for themselves. Sure, it would be more
exciting if, just once in a while, a starlet who didn't win Best Actress slapped
the winner and said, "That belongs to me, bee-yotch!" But some of the snoozy
recurring elements (like the inevitable joke about how draggy things are
getting) can actually be kind of charming, like reruns of your favorite sitcoms
from childhood.

Still, certain aspects of the ceremony, such as the endless lists of thank-yous
to people you've never heard of, can be a bore. So to help make the evening more
interesting, play Oscar bingo.

To make an Oscar bingo card, use our list (middle of story) of 25 things likely
to happen during the ceremony - from a starlet's wardrobe malfunction to a minor
winner's acceptance speech getting cut short - to fill out a 5-by-5 grid (create
your own or download our blank bingo cards below). Fill in the 25 squares in
random order and have your party guests do the same so every card is unique. You
can also download some that are already filled in.

You win by paying close attention: Put a coin on each square every time the
event mentioned occurs, and when you have a complete row, be the first to yell,
"Oscar bingo!" to everyone in the room. If you're alone, you can cheat!

BINGO LIST

"La La Land" is spoofed

Someone gives a shout out to migrants

A minor winner has their acceptance speech interrupted

Meryl looks overly enthusiastic

An actress covers her mouth with both hands in shock

Someone makes a Trump joke

Someone refers to the length of the show

Casey Affleck doesn't laugh at a joke

Denzel flashes 1,000-watt smile

Someone jokes about "Manchester by the Sea" being "depressing"

Lin-Manuel Miranda is called a genius

A presenter garbles the name of a foreigner

Jimmy Kimmel comes up with a hashtag

A loser is unable to conceal disappointment

Climate change mentioned

Mention of George Clooney having twins

An agent is thanked

Foreign winner says something in foreign language

Manly dude hoists statue over his head

Comic gag involving sound to set up sound awards

Winner credits "my mom," forgets dad

Overwhelmed person goes, "Wow!"

Shot of Mel Gibson's resting b-tch face

Actress suffers a wardrobe malfunction

Obligatory "Fifty Shades" joke

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Oscars Bingo! [Annie Wermiel/NY Post Prop styling by Dahlia Galler]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 26, 2017 Sunday

A FAILED 'RENEWAL' New York City schools in crisis Renewal principal out in
grade-fix scandal But DOE keeps him on in $149K Bx. field-office job

BYLINE: Susan Edelman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words


Veteran educator Santiago Taveras has been stripped of his high-profile job as
principal of DeWitt Clinton HS in The Bronx - one of the biggest schools in
Mayor de Blasio's stumbling Renewal program - but was spared the ax for academic
misconduct.

Taveras was demoted to educational administrator and slapped with a $5,000 pay
cut, from $154,826 to $149,826.

"Mr. Taveras is no longer a principal," a Department of Education spokesman
said.

Taveras changed the grades of students from failing to passing without the
knowledge or consent of their teachers, and threatened an assistant principal
who refused to pass a student who didn't deserve it, a city probe found.

A report by the city's Special Commissioner of Investigation quotes a school
source saying Taveras "may have made more than 900" grade changes over three
years, but mentions no effort to probe that accusation. The DOE would not
comment.

Taveras agreed to pay a $5,000 fine for "academic impropriety."

Now based in a Bronx field office, Taveras will "develop and implement
strategies to improve school climate and promote positive behavior among
students," the DOE said.

Last school year, Taveras collected $198,150 - $48,000 on top of his salary.
Officials would not explain the extra payments. He did not return messages
seeking comment.

Taveras' downfall is an embarrassing blow for the mayor's Renewal program, which
is pumping an extra $754 million into struggling schools. The program started in
2014 with 96 schools but after closings and mergers will continue with 78 in the
fall.

Known as "Santi," the burly, boisterous ex-deputy chancellor under former Mayor
Mike Bloomberg took the principal's job in 2013 to save the declining high
school, once a powerhouse with star alumni like attorney William Kunstler, actor
Judd Hirsch and playwright Neil Simon.

Supporters say Taveras injected new energy and school spirit, while getting rid
of scores of teachers he deemed ineffective.

"He was gung-ho about bringing Clinton back, and we were so disappointed when we
heard what happened," said John Barbarette, president of the DeWitt Clinton
Alumni Association.

Clinton's academic performance remains poor. Last year, only 46 percent of
seniors graduated, with 19 percent deemed college-ready.

In November 2015, an anonymous whistleblower sent the SCI records of four cases
in which Taveras changed grades.

In one case, Taveras changed a girl's "no-show" in history to a 75. The history
teacher told probers the girl had "horrendous" attendance and failed to complete
even a make-up assignment.

Another student admitted she rarely attended or completed assignments in a
summer algebra class. Taveras changed her failing 55 to a 65, telling the SCI
she passed the Regents exam.

And Taveras gave an assistant principal (AP) an "unsatisfactory" rating after
the AP told him a failing student's grade couldn't be changed - promising to
reverse it to a "satisfactory" if the AP left. So the AP left.

susan.edelman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SANTIAGO TAVERAS. (J.C. Rice)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Don Jr. making NY great again

BYLINE: Emily Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 366 words


DONALD Trump Jr. wants to run for political office, telling members of an elite
gun club that he could set his sights on becoming governor of New York. Don Jr.
spoke to members of the F6 Labs gun club in Hicksville, NY, and, when asked
about his political ambitions, said he would love to follow his father,
President Donald Trump, into office.

A guest at Tuesday's meeting told Page Six, "Don Jr. said he is interested in
running for office, such as governor of New York, but the position of mayor of
New York would be less interesting to him." Don Jr. added that he didn't want to
be one of 100 Senators, nor a member of Congress.

Campaigning alongside his father made him think about his future, with him
saying, "Do I want to be behind the scenes and be a mouthpiece and fight back
against crazy liberal media? Maybe." Don Jr. joked that he missed the intensity
of the presidential campaign: "Going back to doing deals is boring after 18
months. The politics bug bit me."

Since his father was sworn in, he and his brother Eric have taken over the Trump
Organization.

While Don Jr. didn't indicate when he'd run, Gov. Andrew Cuomo is up for
re-election in 2018, although he's been named as a possible presidential
candidate for 2020. Cuomo's clashed with President Trump on immigration, climate
change and Obamacare, and has also pushed for regulation of firearms. Don Jr.,
meanwhile, seems to be laying the groundwork with gun advocates. He's an avid
hunter who's stalked elephants and posed with a dead leopard in a controversial
Twitter post.

Speaking in front of a group that included Nassau Police Commish Thomas
Krumpter, vodka company owner Marty Silver, lawyer and lobbyist  Brad Gerstman
and restaurateur Chris Tsarsi, Don Jr. said he would oppose anything that
restricts the Second Amendment, and he supports state reciprocity laws, which
allow guns to be carried from state to state with a permit. He also spends every
weekend in the Catskills hunting, fishing and shooting with his family. A Trump
source added, "Don [Jr.] has no intentions of running for political office at
this time . . . [He] is totally focused on running the Trump Organization with
his brother."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 5, 2017 Friday

Viacom vamoose! TV channels yanked from basic cable

BYLINE: Claire Atkinson

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 323 words


Viacom Chief Executive Bob Bakish turned in a better-than-expected quarter, but
investors fled the stock after the owner of MTV and Nickelodeon confirmed that
cable giant Charter Communications is taking Viacom's channels out of
basic-cable packages for new customers.

Investors are spooked about the weak ad climate and the disappearance of almost
half a million subscribers from cable, satellite and telco video packages as new
online services come on stream.

Viacom B shares closed off 7.1 percent to $36.46.

"A tepid market for domestic national TV advertising, weakening cable subscriber
trends and the need to invest more heavily against content," wrote Brian Wieser,
an analyst with Pivotal Research, outlining Viacom's challenges in a Thursday
note.

The company, controlled by the Redstone family, is at risk of seeing lower
subscription fees from its existing business if it is moved out of the most
widely distributed packages and on to separate tiers.

Bakish told investors that he is protesting the tiering change with Liberty
Media-backed Charter, which said it would only offer Viacom channels on a
higher-priced tier to new customers. That could threaten the underpinning of
Viacom's affiliate fees.

Charter and New York cable company Altice USA have distribution agreements with
Viacom that are set to expire in the next year or two.

Viacom's profit fell to $121 million, or 30 cents per share, in the first
quarter. Revenue rose 8.5 percent, to $3.26 billion, versus analysts'
expectations for $3.02 billion.

Revenue from Viacom's film business jumped 37 percent, to $895 million, in the
second quarter ended March 31. Analysts had penciled in $676.5 million,
according to FactSet.

Viacom said action thriller "xXx: Return of Xander Cage," starring Vin Diesel,
grossed more than $346 million at the worldwide box office. The company named a
new Paramount Pictures boss in March, Jim Gianopulos.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brawny revenue: Box office hits like"xXx: Return of Xander Cage"
(inset) helped juice Viacom's quarterly results. The embattled media company is
plotting a turnaround plan that focuses in part on its Paramount film studio,
producer of the upcoming "Baywatch" movie. [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 2, 2017 Friday

After Paris

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 389 words


In quitting the Paris Accord, President Trump on Thursday did nothing to shift
the course of US environmental policy - not even on carbon emissions. But he did
put the world on notice that no president can unilaterally commit this nation to
such far-reaching agreements.

The Constitution is clear: No treaty is binding on the US government unless
ratified by the Senate. That tanked the Kyoto Protocol, a 1997 anti-warming
treaty that the Senate rejected 95-0. And it would've killed the Paris deal that
President Obama signed in 2016 - except that his negotiators shaped an
"agreement" that wouldn't go to the Senate.

But one that still would've been used to rewrite US law, if the courts went
along. (And a President Hillary Clinton's judicial picks would have ensured that
they did.)

In fact, Trump had already abandoned the Paris goals by junking Obama's Clean
Power Plan. Yet he's not turning back the clock. He's just saying no to what
Obama sought to impose - a rush to a low-carbon America at huge economic cost.

Under Paris, as Trump noted, the United States would've had to close all its
coal plants, even as China builds hundreds more - and coal still generates a
third of US electricity.

Yet America will continue to cut its carbon emissions: They're already down by a
fifth since 2000, thanks to fracking and the gradual replacement of coal plants
with natural-gas ones. That's better than Europe did as it implemented Kyoto by
making electricity cost twice as much as it does here.

Nor did Paris make sense. As Danish economist Bjorn Lomborg notes, it entails
costs of over $1 trillion a year to shave 0.36 degrees Fahrenheit off global
temperatures by 2100 - a tenth the reduction it said is necessary.

The better response, Lomborg argues, is massive R&D in non-carbon power - so
that humanity needn't impoverish itself to "save the planet." As he pursues
smart post-Paris policies, Trump ought to boost outlays for "green energy" R&D.

America has far cleaner air and water than it did 50 years ago, and more
parkland. It should continue those trends, and keep reducing its carbon
emissions - democratically.

What the nation won't do, thanks to the president, is devastate its own economy
against the public's wishes in order to satisfy the global elite. Count this as
a major Trump promise kept.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 12, 2017 Monday

Media City Daddy dearest

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 347 words


It's almost Father's Day, and the gossip mags are celebrating. For most
families, the celebration will be done quietly and with little drama. And there
is Ivanka Trump, Kourtney Kardashian and Katie Holmes - each of whom will, no
doubt, have a very unique way of making the day special.

Trump is the cover story in Us Weekly in a piece that carries the teaser: Why I
Disagree With My Dad." Alas, there is very little "why" - and instead we get
from the president's "beloved daughter" a lot of re-heated blah-blah-blah about
her interest in LGBT rights, women's issues and climate change.

The story buffs the Ivanka brand nicely. It tells the heartwarming story of how
the 35-year-old juggles being a loving mom, a caring and devoted wife, a
globe-trotting member of the administration - while pushing her book and look.

In Star, ever the competitive one, out-does Us by having two stories bound to
make Father's Day extra special for two families.

Kardashian, according to this week's issue, has finally gotten disgusted enough
with her ex, sex addict Scott Disick, that she is "ready" to warn him to stay
away from their kids - Mason, Penelope and Reign.

The kids will be much better under Kourtney's care, the mag explains, because,
according to a source, "Their kids are reaching the impressionable age where
their father's behavior could warp their concept of right and wrong." Exactly.

Even more juicy - and, perhaps, even more false - is Star's cover story on
Holmes' possible tell-all memoir about her marriage to Tom Cruise and romance
with Jamie Foxx.

Our love of the gossip mags grows the further out on the plausibility limb they
shimmy.

The story of Holmes' possible $8 million memoir is already being shot down, much
like Star's story last July that she was preggers with Foxx's baby-to-be.

We hope Cruise can ignore this story and simply enjoy what could be his favorite
day of the year - while enjoying some daddy-daughter time with 11-year-old Suri.

ON THE NEWSSTAND

US Weekly: 1 star

Star: 2

New York: 2

The New Yorker: 1 1/2

Time: 2

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 9, 2017 Sunday

The pretender & the defender

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1109 words


It is a tale of two New Yorkers. Donald Trump goes to Germany to defend Western
civilization and promote economic growth. Bill de Blasio goes to Germany to
throw verbal Molotov cocktails and promote socialism.

One is the leader of the free world, the other is a great pretender.

The mayor was in full Putz mode as he abandoned his City Hall post to join the
anarchists, socialists and violent leftists trying to disrupt the G-20 summit.
In the history of low moments in New York politics, de Blasio's stunt stands
out.

His decision to join an international rabble marked by vandalism and violence to
"protest" Trump, the head of his own country and a citizen of his own city,
shows where the mayor's heart is. Politically, it's foolish - the city needs
federal cash, and biting the hand that feeds is never wise.

Yet wisdom eludes de Blasio. He came of age with a fondness for Fidel Castro and
the murderous Sandinistas, and refuses to grow up.

He kept his trip a secret until he was leaving, knowing he would be denounced.
So he skulked out of town in the aftermath of a police assassination, the
slow-motion collapse of the subways and a record surge in homelessness.

For what? To talk about climate change and gay marriage to foreigners nearly
4,000 miles away.

George Will has called such posturing "moral grandstanding" and argues that, for
modern liberals, "feeling good about themselves" is the central goal.

Self-congratulation certainly was high on the mayor's agenda. He boasted to his
hosts about the diversity of New York subway riders, as if that just started on
his watch.

The timing was especially awkward given that those subway riders are united in
their fury about decrepit service. Far be it from de Blasio to do anything about
it except grab a freebie trip to Europe and talk, talk, talk.

Defending his decision to bolt, the mayor called a city radio show to insist
that "all the issues that need to be attended to, I am attending to . . .
regardless of where I am."

He has it exactly backward. He should have stayed in New York and phoned in his
cliched remarks to Germany. By doing the opposite, de Blasio shows he has
checked out of his day job in hopes of getting a better one.

He should thank his lucky stars if he keeps the one he has.

In the last 60 years, voters fired just two mayors after a single term, and in
both cases the city faced a staggering crisis. Abe Beame got the boot over the
brush with bankruptcy, and David Dinkins was replaced as crime soared and the
quality of life plummeted.

There are no comparable emergencies facing Gotham now, but de Blasio is testing
the assumption that he can coast to re-election in November. Perhaps his sneaky
disappearing act will persuade enough voters that it's time to find an
alternative.

Until they do, they're stuck with a mayor who neglects their cares to become a
pet rock of the international left. In his phone call, he said his role was to
"set a tone and say we are not going to be intimidated by President Trump."

Under that definition of his job, New York can go to hell and it's not his
problem. He's got more important things to do.

In contrast to the mayor's embarrassing trip, Trump was on a serious mission to
combat terrorism and shape international trade rules to create more jobs for
Americans. As he had in his Mideast visit, where he rallied Muslim nations, the
president demonstrated a strong sense of purpose about confronting global
threats to freedom.

Most important, Trump this time placed that fight in the context of defending
Western civilization itself.

"The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to
survive," he said in his remarkable speech in Warsaw. "Do we have the confidence
in our values to defend them at any cost?

"Do we have enough respect for our citizens to protect our borders? Do we have
the desire and the courage to preserve our civilization in the face of those who
would subvert and destroy it?"

The references to values and borders were a smash with ordinary Poles, but
didn't sit well with the sloppy secularists and socialists leading Europe to
ruin. No doubt de Blasio hated it, too.

Good - that was the point.

Unlike his predecessor, Trump doesn't travel to apologize for America and
surrender to multi-cultural sensitivities. He was elected to slam the brakes on
the poisonous ideas that redistribution of wealth and managing decline are the
president's chief duties.

What exactly he will do instead remains a work in progress. Yet gradually, and
sometimes by fits and starts, Trump's America First agenda is emerging as a
coherent doctrine that sees faith and family as a bedrock of national peace and
prosperity. And those, in turn, are key to his vision of American global
leadership.

As he put it in closing in Warsaw, we are engaged in a battle "for family, for
freedom, for country and for God."

Naturally, much of the media obsessed about whether the president would confront
Vladimir Putin about Russian attempts to meddle in last year's election, but
they got more than they bargained for when Trump first used a press conference
to accuse then-President Barack Obama of doing nothing about Russia because he
assumed Hillary Clinton would win the election.

Though you wouldn't know it from the horrified media reaction, Trump is right.
Jeh Johnson, Obama's head of homeland security, admitted as much to Congress,
saying Trump's early warnings of a "rigged" election made the White House
nervous about going public on Russia because it might appear Obama was trying to
unfairly tip the race to Clinton.

Trump did raise the meddling issue with Putin, though he gets no credit from the
usual suspects. Whether he was forceful enough remains to be seen, but it was
important to confront Putin in the context of pushing back against Russian
aggressions elsewhere.

No matter the country, Putin only stops when he's stopped.

The announced cease-fire in Syria is a sign their talks were substantive, but
it's a fool's errand to judge from one meeting whether America and Russia can
have a productive relationship. For now, the most important outcome would be a
mutual decision to pull back from the escalating cycle of confrontations before
the two greatest superpowers stumble into military conflict.

Ultimately, Trump's presidency depends on his success at home, and he returns to
grim talk that the Senate will not pass an ObamaCare replacement bill.

The news reveals that Republicans still haven't figured out how to govern.
Getting his party over that hump must now become the president's chief focus.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: opposites: Mayor de Blasio and President Trump came to Germany with two
very different missions. (AFP; Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 11, 2017 Tuesday

Hizzoner Trumps up an excu$e (excuse) for jaunt City approved G-8 trip as
anti-Don junket

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen , Carl Campanile and Bruce Golding

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 490 words


The city Conflicts of Interest Board gave Mayor de Blasio the green light for a
free trip to Germany because it achieved a "city purpose" - of opposing
President Trump, a spokesman said Monday.

An e-mail from the board's lawyer, sent at 10 p.m. Friday - more than a day
after de Blasio flew to Germany - said the panel approved his itinerary based on
a rule that allows the acceptance of travel-related gifts if "the trip is for a
city purpose and, therefore, could properly be paid for with city funds."

Asked what city purpose was served by de Blasio giving the keynote speech at a
G-20 protest rally in Hamburg, spokesman Eric Phillips cited Hizzoner's
self-appointed role as a progressive foil to the president.

"He was representing New York City and our values, and providing an alternate
American viewpoint to the deeply problematic vision of President Trump,"
Phillips said.

The organizers of the Hamburg Shows Attitude rally have said they paid for de
Blasio and three aides, including Phillips, to attend "because it's worth [it]
to not just hear the voice of President Trump in Germany these days."

De Blasio only required majority approval of the conflicts board. He appointed
three of the panel's five members.

On his weekly segment on NY1 Monday, de Blasio said "no" when asked whether he
had second thoughts about the Germany trip after all the backlash.

He also cast the trip as an anti-Trump junket.

"This was a major international gathering," he said. "The most important leaders
in the world are there . . . I have not done a lot of travel overseas, but this
was a particularly meaningful moment and what a lot of people wanted to know is
that the cities of America and the states of America we're not going to follow
along with President Trump on issues like climate change."

Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis (R-SI, Brooklyn), his presumptive challenger in
this year's mayoral race, scoffed at the notion that the trip served a city
purpose.

"It's a political purpose! It's a political trip!" she said.

"The mayor needs to stop harping on Trump and take care of the traffic, transit
and trash and the deteriorating quality of life."

Earlier in the day, Malliotakis demanded de Blasio reveal how much taxpayers
shelled out for the NYPD bodyguards who protected him on his trip.

City Hall referred such questions to the NYPD, which declined to reveal a cost.

"We do not discuss the specific security [arrangements] for dignitaries,
including the mayor, the NYPD protects," a police spokesman said in an e-mail.

But earlier this year, de Blasio and Police Commissioner James O'Neill
apparently had no problem revealing costs related to the city's protection of
the president and his family at Trump Tower.

In a February letter to Congress released by City Hall, O'Neill said the NYPD
and FDNY spent $25.7smillion on "presidential-level security" between Trump's
election and inauguration.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Feeling the heat: Mayor de Blasio, under fire for his Germany trip,
leaves slain Officer Miosotis Familia's wake Monday night. [Matthew McDermott]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 12, 2017 Tuesday

Irmageddon Paradise lost in Caribbean US aids mass evac of ravaged isles

BYLINE: David K. Li

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 807 words


Lush island paradises in the Caribbean were obliterated by Hurricane Irma,
leaving thousands of residents battling against everything from lack of food and
water to rampant lawlessness.

The United States launched a mass evacuation off devastated St. Martin,
airlifting on Monday the last of about 1,500 Yanks who had been trapped on the
resort island, officials said.

Rescued citizens were told they could only bring one small carry-on bag as they
waited in hours-long lines to board giant C-130 cargo planes from New York,
Puerto Rico and Kentucky.

They took off from the island's Princess Juliana Airport, famous for its very
low-flying landing approaches over a public beach. The airport is now a shell of
its former self, its runway badly damaged by 185-mph winds.

The Royal Caribbean cruise line, too, helped in the exodus. One of its ships
ferried 300 people, including roughly 200 US citizens, off St. Martin, the State
Department said.

Bronx native Elvis Burton, who lives on the decimated island of Barbuda, said
he's grateful to be alive after evacuating to Antigua.

"I think it's going to take a long time for Barbuda to get back on its foot.
Everything is completely destroyed," Burton, 57, told CNN.

"Most of the people left with just the clothes on their backs. I want to get
back because I want to start to rebuild. It's sinking in, you're feeling the
impact of the hurricane, after a day or two, you realize you have lost
everything."

At least 34 people were killed in the Caribbean during Irma - a toll that's
likely to rise as rescuers go through debris, officials said.

Homeland Security adviser Tom Bossert promised that the US wouldn't leave people
behind without support, and praised efforts to help those in need.

"While I'm preaching caution to make sure that people understand this is an
ongoing effort and there's still going to be long, painful days ahead, I am
doubling down on my assertion that this is the best integrated, full-scale
response effort in our nation's history," Bossert told reporters in Washington,
DC.

"That include the US Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and non-US islands where we
helped American citizens during a window of operational safety between
[Hurricanes] José and Irma."

Billionaire Richard Branson, whose private Necker Island in the British Virgin
Islands was hit hard by Irma, said it will take a worldwide effort to rebuild
the Caribbean island nations.

Branson, who took refuge in his mansion's wine cellar during the storm, tweeted
pictures of the damage on Monday.

He compared what will be needed to rebuild the Caribbean, including the British
isles, to what the United States pulled off in post-World War II Europe à la the
Marshall Plan.

"The region needs a 'Disaster Recovery Marshall Plan' for the BVI and other
territories that will aid in recovery, sustainable reconstruction and long-term
revitalisation of the local economy," Branson wrote on his Web site.

"This will have to include building resilience against what is likely to be a
higher intensity and frequency of extreme weather events, as the effects of
climate change continue to grow."

Branson said planes from his Virgin Atlantic fleet will bring building
materials, blankets and bottled water this week to the British Virgin Islands
and Antigua.

Meanwhile, looting was reportedly raging on Tortola, the largest of the British
Virgin Islands, where 120 prison inmates broke out of their storm-damaged lockup
on Friday.

"I've been getting some updates on the ground out there on the British Virgin
Islands and it's really sad to say that there is a lot of civil unrest,"
Branson's son, Sam, said in an Instagram post Monday.

"Unfortunately some of the prisoners have escaped and are now armed."

British, French and Dutch governments have dispatched forces to the pummeled
region in hopes of restoring law and order.

Cuba, whose aging infrastructure was shaky before Irma, suffered some of the
storm's worst damage, with farmlands wiped out and big-city streets turned into
canals.

"We have absolutely nothing, we lost it all, the fridge, the washing machine, we
lost it all here," said Havana resident Ayda Herrera, whose home was flooded.

Excavators worked to clear streets filled with snapped trees as trucks struggled
to deliver fresh drinking water in major cities including Havana.

Cuban President Raúl Castro urged his citizens to rally from the disaster.

"These have been difficult days for our people, who, in a few hours time, have
seen what was constructed with great effort hit by a devastating hurricane,"
Castro said in a statement posted Monday in the state organ Granma.

"Images from the last few hours speak for themselves, as does the spirit of
resistance and victory of our people that is regenerated with every adversity."

With Wires

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Deadly: A Havana man on Monday surveys his collapsed apartment
building, where two residents died. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 662 words


From the right: In the End, 9/11 Didn't Bring Us Closer

Remember the chants of "USA! USA!" by first responders at Ground Zero as
President George W. Bush greeted them three days after 9/11? David Harsanyi at
The Federalist says that, at the time, "it seemed that the rest of American
society" was cheering as well. But he "can't help but wonder whether it would go
down the same way" in today's culture of "deep cynicism." Because "whereas a
beautiful or tragic moment might have once given us a respite from partisanship,
we are no longer afforded such breaks." The sad question to ponder: "What if
those two or three weeks of harmony 16 years ago will be the last we experience
for a very long time?"

Urban analyst: The Folly of NYC's One-Party Politics

Speaking of cynicism, Bob McManus at City Journal says it justifiably "informs
politics at every level" in New York City. One might have thought, given his
record, that Mayor de Blasio "would have attracted a platoon of potential
challengers" in this election year. Instead, Tuesday's Democratic primary
featured one gadfly and three political unknowns. Better-known rivals are
"content to play New York's unique game of plateau politics," patiently awaiting
"an opportunity to move up," usually when term limits kick in. Plateau politics
is also why de Blasio was able to "feather special-interest nests from the
outset" and let the beneficiaries - unions and developers - tamp down any
"budding insurgencies."

Security desk: Israeli Syria Strike Sends US a Message

Israel's bombing last week of a military site in central Syria "where chemical
weapons and precision bombs are said to be produced" was "fair warning" to
Washington that "there are limits" to what it will tolerate on Iran's presence
in Syria, suggests Elliott Abrams at the Council on Foreign Relations. The
choice of a stationary target, rather than a mobile one like truck caravans
carrying such weapons, was also "a message to Iran, Syria and Lebanon." And it
came about because Vladimir Putin told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
he would not "restrain Iran - his ally in Syria." Neither, it appears, will the
US. But, says Abrams, Washington should publicly declare approval of Israel's
action and commit its support, in case of conflict, for Israel to defend itself.

Culture critic: Now Miss America Goes All Political

To many, the Miss America pageant is "an anachronism," says Carrie Lukas at
Acculturated. Which is probably why Sunday night's event took a page from cable
news and turned the contestants into "political talking heads." Inevitably,
though, "the politically charged questions were rooted in a liberal world view."
Winner Cara Mund, from South Dakota, was quizzed on climate change and President
Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Accord. The other finalists were
asked about Trump's involvement with Russian campaign meddling, his response to
Charlottesville and whether to remove Confederate statues - all "from a
decidedly liberal perspective," just like late-night comedy shows, major TV
dramas and NFL games. But Americans, she suggests, "are tired" of having "every
aspect of life boiled down to a referendum on Donald Trump."

Tech writer: Apple Cloud Follows Us Everywhere

Apple, unveiling its latest products on the 10th anniversary of the iPhone,
"wants everyone to have their heads lodged in their own personal clouds," says
April Glaser at Slate. The company "has been building wearable and pocket-size
products that, when networked together, turn each user into a kind of internet
of one, with various devices that patch into the user's own cloud." But while
convenient, it's "also alienating," leaving users "cloistered" in their "own
personal media environment." And if we don't look up occasionally, "we might
forget that all the data swirling around us isn't necessarily our own; it's held
at a private company that's making more money than any other company in the
world."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Bibi' Netanyahu.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 29, 2017 Friday

Get Chong's cart

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 106 words


STONER comic Tommy Chong is helping Hurricane Harvey victims by putting up his
tricked-out golf cart as the prize in a charity raffle. The raffle's being run
by Angel's Garage, which added metallic paint and colored lights. It is being
given away at https://e.sparxo.com/FightHunger, and the proceeds will be shared
with food banks in Texas. "It's the universe saying, 'Excuse me, climate change
is real, and this is what happens when Mother Nature gets pissed off,' " Chong
tells us. "We have a president that is more concerned with black people kneeling
during the national anthem than people kneeling to try and get water and food."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 10, 2017 Tuesday

EPA big to unplug O's power regs

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 193 words


President Trump's environmental chief announced Monday he will undo former
President Barack Obama's initiative to reduce emissions by power plants.

"The war on coal is over," Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott
Pruitt told coal miners in Hazard, Ky.

Pruitt mocked Obama's efforts to stem global warming.

"Tomorrow in Washington, DC, I'll be signing a proposed rule to withdraw the
so-called Clean Power Plan of the past administration and thus begin the effort
to withdraw that rule," Pruitt said.

The Clean Power Plan directs power plants to reduce carbon-pollution emissions
by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.

Pruitt said Obama overstepped his legal authority when he tried to limit
greenhouse gases.

"Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and
losers," Pruitt said.

"The past administration was unapologetic. They were using every bit of power,
every bit of authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers on how we
generate electricity. And that's wrong."

Obama's order was put on hold last year, when the Supreme Court issued a stay
pending the resolution of challenges.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 10, 2017 Tuesday

Sorry, honey

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 105 words


Swiss researchers tested honey samples from around the world and found that
three-quarters of them had a common type of pesticide. The scientists say the
chemical is not near levels that would come close to harming humans, but it is a
big worry for the bees. They tested about 200 samples and found that 75 percent
had at least one of the five kinds of insecticides, according to the results
published in the journal Science. Bees and other pollinators have been on the
decline for more than a decade. Experts blame a combination of factors:
pesticide, parasites, disease, climate change and the lack of a diverse

food supply. AP

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bee

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 14, 2017 Saturday

Mullah, I call bulla Trump vows to decertify Iran and nix 2015 international
nuke pact

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Bob Fredericks

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 741 words


President Trump announced Friday that he will not certify that Iran is in
compliance with the controversial nuclear deal - and vowed to abandon the pact
if Congress and US allies can't agree on a tougher accord.

Trump said the US would take a hard line on Tehran, which he condemned for
supporting terrorism, destabilizing the Middle East and continuing to develop a
nuclear missile program in defiance of the 2015 international ­accord.

But he stopped short of reimposing sanctions, which would have effectively
scuttled the deal.

"As president of United States, my highest obligation is to ensure the safety
and security of the American people," the president said at the White House,
adding that he was determined that Iran would never become a nuclear power.

"We will not continue down a path whose predictable conclusion is more violence
and terror and the very real threat of Iran's nuclear breakout," he said.

The president condemned the Islamic theocracy and ticked off a litany of
terrorist groups he said were aided by the mad mullahs.

"The regime remains the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism and provides
assistance to al Qaeda, the Taliban, Hezbollah, Hamas and other terrorist
networks," he said.

Trump wants lawmakers to either change the existing deal - which even the
administration admits is unlikely - or come up with an additional accord that
would address US concerns.

If that effort fails, he said, "then the agreement will be terminated."

The administration's new strategy includes four key goals:

n Working with allies to disrupt Iran's "destabilizing activity and support for
terrorist proxies in the region."

n Place additional sanctions on individuals and entities linked to the elite
Iranian Revolutionary Guard to block their financing and logistical support of
ter­rorists.

n Move to restrict the country's ballistic missile program, including ICBMs that
could threaten Israel and even the US.

n Take measures that "will deny the regime all paths to a nuclear weapon."

Trump accused Iran of "not living up to the spirit" of the nuclear agreement and
alleged that Iran was working with North Korea on its nuclear weapons programs.

And he gave the Treasury Department broad authority to impose economic sanctions
against people in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard or entities owned by it.

While Trump did not withdraw the US from the Obama-era agreement, he gave
Congress 60 days to decide whether to reimpose economic sanctions that were
lifted under the pact.

That increases tension with Iran as well as putting Washington at odds with
Britain, France, Germany, Russia, China and the European Union, which all signed
and still back the deal.

If Congress reimposes the sanctions, the US would in effect be in violation of
the terms of the deal and it would likely fall apart. If lawmakers do nothing,
the deal remains in place.

Trump's harder line on Iran infuriated Tehran but was welcomed by Israel.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said Friday that his country would still abide
by the agreement, which Trump has called "embarrassing" and the worst deal in
history."

"The Iranian nation has not bowed and will never bow to any foreign pressure.
Iran and the deal are stronger than ever. Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps will continue its fight against regional terrorists," Rouhani said on
Iranian TV, insisting that the deal is not renegotiable.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lauded Trump.

"I congratulate President Trump for his courageous decision today," Netanyahu
said in a prepared video statement.

"He boldly confronted Iran's terrorist regime. If the Iran deal is left
unchanged, one thing is absolutely certain. In a few years' time, the world's
foremost terrorist regime will have an arsenal of nuclear weapons, and that's a
tremendous danger for our collective future," he said.

The move was part of Trump's "America First" approach to international
agreements, which has led him to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, the
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks and threaten to pull out of NAFTA, the
1992 trade agreement with Canada and Mexico.

Despite the president's claims, international inspectors have said Tehran is in
compliance with the accord, under which economic sanctions on Iran were lifted
in exchange for it agreeing to drastic limits on its nuclear program.

With Wires

rfredericks@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Word War: President Trump addresses the Values Voter Summit in
Washington Friday, the same day he said he will decertify Iranian compliance
with the 2015 nuclear deal. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani (far right)
responded on his nation's state television. [Getty Images; EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 15, 2017 Sunday

POSTSCRIPT Letters

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 609 words


Let teachers teach

Just like the NYPD, city teachers are afraid to do their job for fear of being
penalized ("It's a flash dance!" Oct. 10).

This is a great disservice to our children. How can a teacher gain control of a
chaotic classroom if troublemakers and disrupters are never corrected and make
learning impossible?

Teachers already compete with cellphones, and now we must compete with a
bureaucracy that does not care that some schools have a 3 percent
college-readiness rate. Fake credits, fake progress and a fake sense of safety
is what rules in public schools. What a travesty.

Eileen Ghastin, White Plains

Toss bad principals

Just when I thought the city school system couldn't get any worse, I read that a
principal was fired on charges that she brought heroin into a prison while
visiting her son ("More School Madness," Editorial, Oct. 10).

What's more shocking is that the city principals union defended Sadie Silver,
calling her a brilliant educator.

This woman was collecting a salary for three years after she was caught. Why did
it take so long to finally give her the heave-ho? Knowing the way this city runs
things, she'll probably appeal her sentence and be reinstated. Is it any wonder
why the city's school system is in such poor shape?

Ed Greenspan, Brooklyn

Swamp draining

Steve Bannon will clean the swamp of establishment Republican senators by
primarying all of them with opponents endorsed by President Trump ("Call
Bannon's Bluff," John Podhoretz, PostOpinion, Oct. 11).

If incumbent senators want to remain in office, they had better be in Trump's
camp and actively support his proposed legislation on tax-law revisions,
building the wall and repealing ObamaCare.

Art Messenger, Scarsdale

Doggy diet plan

"My dog got rid of my pooch!" (Oct. 8) is an extraordinary story. At 51 years
old, Eric O'Grey was depressed, diabetic and weighed 350 pounds. A naturopath
provided Eric with a plant-based eating plan and suggested that he adopt a dog.

Eric adopted Peety. As a result of vegan food and walks, Eric lost 150 pounds,
his joints stopped aching and his diabetes vanished. Peety also lost 25 pounds
and his skin problems disappeared.

By eating vegan, they also made humble contributions toward reducing the
senseless misery caused by animal agriculture.

James Scotto, Manhattan

Pulling the plug

Scott Pruitt, head of the EPA, announced that the Obama administration's Clean
Power Plan would no longer be enforced ("EPA big to unplug O's power regs," Oct.
10).

This is a big blow to President Barack Obama's legacy, and Pruitt announced this
with enthusiasm and unbridled joy.

Pruitt emphasized that Obama's plan was illegal and meant to pick winners and
losers in the power business.

This repeal was a loud and clear repudiation of Obama's attempt to affect
climate change through government overregulation and abuse.

David Lipton, Toms River, NJ

Critter ridder

Mayor de Blasio's animal-control centers appear to be obsessed with killing lost
animals ("Attack of the racc' on Upper W. Side," Oct. 11).

A lost raccoon was euthanized based on the possibility it could have rabies. Why
not release it to an animal sanctuary?

Over Christmas 2016, "Lefty" the lost deer was set to be executed by the city
until Gov. Cuomo intervened.

Allan Rosenblum, Manhattan

Post your comments on stories at www.nypost.com

Email letters@nypost.com, or write to: The Editor, The New York Post, 1211
Avenue of the Americas, NY 10036.

Include name, address and daytime phone number. No unverifiable letter will be
published. The Post reserves the right to edit all letters

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Hypocrisy" sign.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 6, 2017 Monday

Truly prep for the concert

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 165 words


ON Saturday night, downtown punk poet Patti Smith was spotted at Yours Truly, a
new subterranean club at Journal Hotels' Mondrian Park Avenue. She was at the
venue with her activist daughter, Jesse Paris Smith, spies said, to celebrate
the night before their "Pathway to Paris" concert at Carnegie Hall. Sunday's
concert, launched by Jesse with cellist Rebecca Foon, was scheduled to include
appearances by Smith, R.E.M. singer Michael Stipe, folk legend Joan Baez, rapper
Talib Kweli, indie goddess Cat Power, Red Hot Chili Peppers' bassist Flea and
others. Sources at the Yours Truly kickoff bash said that it was a family
affair, with Stipe bringing his mom as a guest. Jesse and Foon began their
climate-change nonprofit Pathway to Paris in 2014, and have drawn regulars to
events, including Stipe, Sonic Youth's Thurston Moore and Radiohead's Thom
Yorke. They've created a new initiative called 1,000 Cities to provide funding
to help cities become completely carbon-neutral by 2040.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 11, 2017 Monday

California wildfires sweep north up coast

BYLINE: Linda Massarella

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 202 words


The California wildfires that have already scorched more than 170,000 acres in
Ventura County spread north Sunday to terrorize the coastal communities in tony
Santa Barbara County, authorities said.

The National Weather Service raised a red-flag warning as firefighters guarded a
cluster of homes and flames threatened to sweep through the area.

The Santa Barbara County Fire Department posted a slew of tweets about burnt
structures and possible medical emergencies.

More than 80,000 homes in the county were without power, according to officials
at Southern California Edison on Sunday.

Areas in Ventura and Los Angeles counties, however, became safer as about 8,500
firefighters successfully battled the Thomas Fire, so called because it began
east of Highway 150 near Thomas Aquinas College.

That fire has forced 88,000 people to flee their homes, leaving blackened
hillsides and charred palm trees in its path.

Gov. Jerry Brown called it a "terrible tragedy" and said climate change could
have exacerbated the weather conditions that caused the wildfires to explode.

"This could be something that happens every year or every few years," he said.
"We're about to have a firefighting Christmas."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 24, 2017 Sunday

Eat your   (heart) out! City ladies agree: Food beats sex

BYLINE: Melkorka Licea

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 463 words


Even man-eaters prefer eating over men.

About 74 percent of Big Apple ladies crave "amazing food" over "amazing sex,"
according to a new survey of 3,000 women by a health Web site.

"I'll take buttery shrimp fajitas over a night of sex any day," said Ari Katech.
"They're always delicious and even sexy!"

The 26-year-old Brooklynite thinks most men simply "don't know how to please a
woman."

"A lot of them don't know up from down when they're messing around in that
area," she said. "It's like a free-for-all, and it's awkward to have to keep
correcting them."

She prefers a good meal because it's "only about you."

"There's never a part," she said, "where you have to do what someone else wants
or exert effort in some way."

Maya, 39, of Manhattan, confided, "When you have a really good meal, you enjoy
everything about it from start to finish, from the atmosphere, to the service
and, of course, the way it tastes.

"With sex, one part of it might be good, like climaxing, but the entire thing
usually isn't."

Jennifer Chen, 23, of Manhattan, declared, "It's no contest, food is better."

"You remember that great restaurant where you had that amazing dish, but you
don't remember the exact date you had good sex with someone," she said.

The survey of city women between the ages of 25 and 65 was conducted by Everyday
Health to shed light on women's perception of their wellness in the current
climate of near daily sexual-harassment claims and high infertility rates, said
Lisa Kennedy, the Web site's executive vice president.

The results, released exclusively to The Post, also found that only 22 percent
of ladies are "satisfied" with their sex lives, while 16 percent reported never
having satisfying sex.

About 24 percent of respondents said they have satisfying sex monthly, 29
percent have it weekly and only 4 percent daily.

Poor body image doesn't help. When it comes to thinking of themselves in their
birthday suits, 66 percent of respondents said they "cringe" instead of "smile."
One expert says female dissatisfaction might be rooted in how women were long
conditioned to think of themselves as givers rather than takers.

"Only 25 percent of women have orgasms through intercourse," said Dr. Christiane
Northrup, a national wellness expert and former OB-GYN professor at Maine
Medical Center. "We short change ourselves by failing to understand the true
power of our pleasure.

"The extent of the clitoral anatomy - inside and out - wasn't even known in
medical circles until the last five years or so," she added.

But local ladies aren't letting the lack of fireworks get them down, as more
than 50 percent say they never worry about their love or sex lives and only 16
percent think about it daily.

mlicea@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Woman eating. (Alamy)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 24, 2017 Sunday

BAD COMPANY Cleveland threatens to match Lions' infamous 0-16 feat

BYLINE: and STEVE SERBY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 1036 words


The Browns find themselves on the doorstep of history once again. It isn't easy
to go 0-16. Only the Detroit Lions have done it, and that was nine years ago.

But here come the irrepressible Browns, who were 0-14 before beating the
Chargers last Christmas Eve at FirstEnergy Stadium and blowing their chance at
ignominy and shame.

"You don't want to say it was our Super Bowl," Joe Thomas said afterwards, "but
it kind of was."

This time, it is the Bad News Bears in Chicago who stand in the way of a Perfect
Season Parade 2.0, partially funded by Excedrin, around FirstEnergy Stadium on
Jan. 6. Against Mitchell Trubisky, the rookie quarterback from Ohio they were
eyeing at the NFL draft, the Browns may be forced to play their worst game of
the season to have a shot at 0-16 in Pittsburgh on New Year's Eve.

Dan Orlovsky became the quarterback of the 2008 Lions because Jon Kitna (back)
was placed on IR. Orlovsky missed four games with a thumb injury before
returning for 0-13, 0-14, 0-15 and 0-16.

"It was a terrible experience," Orlovsky told Serby Says by phone. "Going to
work isn't fun. You have this expectation level of almost failure. You're just
trying to survive. You're trying to keep your head afloat. You know the end
result is coming. People's lives are gonna be drastically impacted by everything
that's going on, and you're a laughingstock of so many markets and people and
fans, and it stinks because it's not like you didn't work for success or didn't
try, just there were a lot of variables that worked against you. It wasn't a fun
year. I don't wish it upon anybody."

Orlovsky was asked what it was like for him when he went out in public.

"You didn't do it," he said. "The Lions are a really big deal to the people. And
they take great pride in their football team, all their sports teams. It's a
cold climate, so they look forward to their Lions on Sundays and success and it
drastically affects their mood during the week.

"Going out and being winless, you'd run the whole gamut of emotion from people -
people would laugh at you, people would get mad at you, people would say, 'You
suck.' Just take Twitter and put it face to face. I didn't go out much, to be
honest with you. I don't think most of us did."

Orlovsky's infamous safety in Week 5 against the Vikings in his first start was
symbolism at its best   or worst.

"A play had come in from the sideline and I had called timeout 'cause I didn't
really like the play," Orlovsky recalled. "I wanted to change the play 'cause it
was really a one-man route with Calvin [Johnson], and I kind of had the desire
to maybe get more guys out in the pattern because it was third-and-long   and I
just wanted to get the ball out of my hands and avoid a bad play-type thing, and
kind of went back on the field with the same play.

"I just remember Jared Allen split the double-team, and I'd never really been in
that situation before.   Usually when you take a drop back or you scramble, you
go backwards, right? I was unprepared for the situation."

Lions GM Matt Millen was fired in September that year. Browns GM Sashi Brown was
fired early this month. Lions head coach Rod Marinelli was fired when the season
ended. Hue Jackson will return next season.

John McKay's 1976 expansion Buccaneers had gone 0-14.

Orlovsky recalls the mood before the Lions' 2008 regular-season finale against
the Packers at Lambeau Field.

"It had never happened before, so everyone knew what was at stake," he said.
"The weird thing is I went into many games thinking, 'We got a legit chance to
win this game.' "

The Lions pulled to within 24-21 in the fourth quarter.

"You got your hopes up like, 'Oh my gosh, we're actually going to avoid this
kind of legacy of disaster,' and obviously it didn't happen," Orlovsky said.

Then Aaron Rodgers hit Donald Driver with a 71-yard TD pass and 0-16 happened.

"You never think of yourself as a player who can't win a game-type thing, who
was on a team who couldn't win a game," Orlovsky said. "There were a lot of
emotions tied to it, and I think there was a part of it that guys were just
happy for it to be over, or happy that it was done. The misery was done."

Jackson and the Browns were 1-15 last season. Now this.

"It sucks, man, it sucks," Orlovsky said. "I feel for them, they've had a rough
two-year stretch. You're dealing with all of the emotions and the questions that
are gonna be coming, that have been, and they're just getting intensified.
There's a great part of me that hopes that they're able to figure out a way to
find a win. Here I am 10 years later just about answering questions about it,
right? I know what the long-term picture of it looks like when it doesn't go
your way.

"There's young guys on the team that are just fighting for a job, there's young
guys on the team that are like, 'What the heck did I get myself into?' There's
veterans that are 4-5 years in going, 'OK, can I get another year or two in the
NFL?' or, 'Man, I'm not coming back here.' Then there's veteran veterans I would
imagine that are going 'Well, I've made my money so I just can't wait for this
to be over' type thing.' "

Orlovsky, to his credit, has not shied away from his blooper.

"People will post it on my Twitter all the time," Orlovsky said. "If I'm gonna
go forward and get into either coaching or television or broadcasting, it'll be
unavoidable because of the technological world we live in, where everyone has
access to everything and everybody."

Orlovsky announced his retirement in October.

"I have friends and family who joke about it with me," Orlovsky said. "If I had
played four years in the NFL and that was kind of the ending of my career type
thing, I think it would have been harder for me to look back on.   But I had
played for almost a decade later.   I'm more proud of the fact that I didn't let
that hold me back from continuing to play. I didn't let it define me. I didn't
let it kind of bury me mentally."

Easier said than done for most. Orlovsky was asked what advice he would have for
the Browns.

"Figure out a way because you don't know what the long-term ramifications are
until you're doing that dance," Orlovsky said, "and I do."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BROWNS BAGGED: DeShone Kizer and the Browns are just two losses away
from becoming just the second 0-16 team in NFL history. Former Lions QB Dan
Orlovsky (inset) was part of the 2008 team that became the first to sink to such
depths. (AP (2))

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 1, 2017 Sunday

ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK Survivalists spend on emergency boats, caviar storage

BYLINE: DANA SCHUSTER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 864 words


Some anxious parents of college-bound teenagers shell out for Mace and key-chain
flashlights to keep their kids safe. And then there's the two New Jersey
families who split a $7,500 monthly bill to have an aluminum boat on standby to
whisk their children - both enrolled at Fordham University - across the Hudson
River in the event of an NYC terrorist attack.

"They don't want them to be trapped," said Plan B Marine co-founder Chris
Dowhie, who owns more than 10 boats docked in Brooklyn and Manhattan that he
rents to nervous New Yorkers for emergencies.

"People got a taste of what could happen when the [bomb] went off in Chelsea in
September. That could have been bigger."

It seems that the new status symbol in NYC is safety. City dwellers are
splashing out serious dough for everything from five-figure air infiltration
systems to swanky survivalist kits. Luxe retailer Moda Operandi has jumped on
the bandwagon, hawking a $4,995, monogrammed "go bag," with essentials such as
night-vision scopes, a GPS satellite communicator and a caviar serving set and
Mast Brothers chocolate.

Dr. Irwin Redlener, the director of the National Center for Disaster
Preparedness at Columbia University, warned that US citizens are "far less
prepared than we might have expected 16 years after 9/11."

But New York preppers aren't your run-of-the-mill doomsayers. Tom Gaffney, CEO
of Gaffco Ballistics, a safety design firm in NYC, said he's seen requests for
dirty-bomb protection double in 2016.

"If I did 30 town houses in Manhattan last year, 25 of them got infiltration
units," said Gaffney, who says the systems cost between $20,000 and $30,000 and
are typically incorporated into the safe rooms of his A-list clients, including
Fortune 500 CEOs, hedge-funders and music-industry honchos.

For some, an air-purified bunker isn't enough. It's more about escaping New
York.

Dowhie launched Plan B Marine this past summer to ensure locals could flee the
island in the event of a terrorist attack that shuts down trains and bridges, or
if there were another Hurricane Sandy situation.

"My customers are people who know if the grid goes down or the power goes out,
Internet service goes down, phones go out, there's chaos - and they need to keep
their business running. And there are families for whom it's for safety
reasons," said Dowhie.

His boats run between $4,500 to $7,500 per month and are leased to single groups
(so no strangers will be part of your escape plan). The least-expensive is a
7-meter rigid-hulled inflatable boat, an ex-Navy vessel, that holds 18. On the
high end, there's an all-aluminum, 25-foot Coast Guard boat with a heated cabin
that carries 10.

"It's always ready for you," said Dowhie. "You just punch in your code on the
boat."

Dowhie provides operational training for clients up to three times a year. And
while they can use the boats up to six times a year if there is, for example, a
major city disruption such as a four-hour subway delay, "you can't go
water-skiing on the weekend," Dowhie said. "It's not designed for that."

In a true emergency, customers are on their own. "This is a boat that you
actually have to drive," said Dowhie, who maintains the boats year-round and
keeps them gassed up. "You need to be self-sufficient."

Dowhie said, while some of his customers have safe havens set up in New Jersey -
a locale he recommends over something more far-flung like, say, the Hamptons -
many are planning to wing it once they cross the Hudson. If asked, Dowhie will
have a vehicle parked for you in Jersey in advance of your arrival.

For those not ready to make the full-prepper leap, Preppi, the company behind
the nearly $5,000 survival kit, has you covered.

Their $375, 72-hour emergency survival kit - complete with solar and hand-crank
power supplies and Malin+Goetz beauty products - is a favorite among celebs such
as Steven Spielberg and "Modern Family" star Julie Bowen, who gifted the bags to
her show's crew for the holidays.

One 30-year-old portfolio manager at a Manhattan hedge fund has spent more than
$1,000 to create his own survival bag, complete with $500 worth of gold nuggets.

"I have a water-purification kit, I have three tents and eight sleeping bags
made out of the tinfoil they give to warm up marathon runners. If there's a
nuclear disaster, I have iodine pills," said the Ivy League grad, who lives on
Columbus Circle.

"I have hunting gear - fishing poles and knives," he continued. "I would get a
firearm if it weren't so hard to in New York City. I have two gas masks, but
they have an oxygen system so you can breathe. I went on Amazon and bought these
ultra-high-calorie meal-in-a-day bars," added the hedge-funder, who asked to
remain anonymous for fear of being ridiculed.

"I've told a few people and their response has been, 'You're crazy,' so I don't
talk about it anymore," he admitted.

"But then they're like, 'I'll find you if anything goes wrong.' "

Six of the 40+ items included in the $4,995 survival kit from Preppi

SATELLITE MESSENGER SYSTEM

SOLAR PANEL

WATERPROOF MATCHES

DESIGNER CANDLE

CAVIAR SERVING SET (spoons not pictured)

NIGHT-VISION SCOPES

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Hope floats: Chris Dowhie of Plan B Marine rents boats - from $4,500
to $7,500 a month - to New Yorkers worried about escaping the city during an
emergency. [Zandy Mangold]-Various survival items.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 12, 2017 Tuesday

THIS IS NOT A DRILL A trendy high-tech fitness 'gun' is helping sculpt the bods
of New York workout fiends Top guns

BYLINE: and Molly Shea

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 884 words


FLEXING your guns in front of the mirror at the gym? So last year, bro! At hot
workout studios and on social media, New York's fitness elites are all about
flashing another type of gun: a $599 massagerlike device called the TheraGun
that promises quicker recovery and better workout performance.

The pricey status symbol is "like having the iPhone X," says Louis Choi, 30, a
product-development manager who lives in the Theater District. Choi bought one
for himself almost immediately after trying it out a few months ago at Tone
House, an intense circuit-training workout studio in the Flatiron District.

"We talk about it in the locker room," says Choi. "There are a few guys who will
bring it in their gym bags, and ...

everyone will ask [about it]." Dudes especially dig its Home Depot-esque design.

"It looks like a power tool!" says Tone House's chiropractor and early TheraGun
adopter Kamraan Husain.

With an exclusive price tag and serious cool cred, the guns have become the
device du jour among Manhattan's musclemen. But fans say that the TheraGun's
benefits make it more than just a trend.

LA-based chiropractor Jason Wersland invented the machine 10 years ago after a
motorcycle accident left him with a herniated disc. He set out to alleviate his
pain and ended up with the original prototype for the TheraGun.

The device combines pressure, like the kind you'd get from a massage or a foam
roller, with vibration, which Wersland says can stimulate the nervous system.

The result is a tool that, according to Wersland, can flush out lactic acid,
improve circulation and reduce pain, providing immediate relief for tired,
post-workout muscles.

He began using it on his clients and then selling it to fellow chiropractors for
use on athletes. Now, the machines are sold directly to consumers and are
ubiquitous at fitness studios around the city.

That's thanks, in part, to the NBA.

During last year's finals, thenCleveland Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving
hobbled to the bench, wincing.

The cameras caught a trainer gunning Irving's back before he went back into the
game.

"The players were like, 'Hold up, if Kyrie Irving is using it, why aren't we?'"
says New York Knicks director of performance Mubarak Malik. So the Knicks bought
five TheraGuns, which they now use during every practice and game.

"We keep a gun on the bench," says Malik, who will use it on players' backs,
arms and legs while they chill on the sidelines. "You can't predict the
substitutions and the patterns and strategy during the game, so all you can do
is keep the muscles warm. And one of those ways is with a TheraGun." It's
recommended that the gun be used for 20 to 30 seconds on each body part, for a
total of two to three minutes a day.

There are other gunlike devices that blend pressure and vibration, but they're
typically far more expensive and meant for in-office professional use - the
Hyperice Raptor, for example, retails for $3,499 and must be plugged in, while
the TheraGun runs on a battery.

Shom Chowdhury, the global director of health and wellness at Soho House, was an
early adopter, purchasing his first TheraGun a couple of years ago.

Chowdhury, 43, who lives in Chelsea, now owns three guns, stashing one at his
brother's place to use during his regular visits. But when he first starting
posting videos of himself using it on Instagram, friends were skeptical.

"I ride motorcycles, and the guys I ride with would be like, 'I don't want to
see pictures of you vibrating yourself - I'm going to unfollow you,' " Chowdhury
says.

Now, he estimates that at least 20 of his friends own TheraGuns.

"[It] went from people asking me, 'What is that stupid vibrator you have?' to
'Where can I get one?'" he says.

"We just [built a Soho House] in Amsterdam, and we're going to have four onsite
for use," Chowdhury says.

(Soho House's Manhattan location doesn't have a gym, hence no TheraGuns.)
They're also popular at elite downtown weighttraining gym S10, according to its
owner, Stephen Cheuk. He keeps four guns at the front desk for clients, although
he estimates that 50 percent of his regulars just buy their own after falling
for the contraption.

"There's definitely a big wow factor," Cheuk says. "Joe Jonas comes here: I used
it on him, and then he bought one for himself. Diplo travels a lot, so he has
one that he travels with." Despite its flashy appeal, physical therapist Wendy
Winn warns that the gun isn't a cure-all.

"Muscle soreness [occurs] because you tear your muscles while you're working
out," she says. Better circulation can speed up blood flow to those microtears,
but the TheraGun doesn't heal them.

"If you love it, great," says Winn.

"There's no downside. I just want to make sure the expectations are managed."
It's a warning that's lost on some, for whom ponying up $600 is proof of badass
dedication - or at least the appearance of it.

"If you bring one to Tone House," says Choi, "it kinda says, 'Hey, I'm a serious
athlete.'"

All about the TheraGun

* A round foam "AmpBIT" moves up and down in percussive movements to stimulate
muscles and break up scar tissue.

* A cone attachment is also available for targeted treatment.

* Battery charge lasts 40 to 45 minutes.

* The tool weighs just under 3 pounds.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Trainer Stephen Cheuk (left) uses the vibrating TheraGun on client
Shom Chowdhury's pec muscle. [Stefano Giovannini]-Kyrie Irving is credited with
inspiring other pro athletes to try the gun after he used it during the NBA
playoffs last year.-Knicks player Joakim Noah (center) hoists his TheraGun in
the air alongside teammates Tim Hardaway Jr. (left) and Kyle O'Quinn during a
game on Sunday. [Anthony J. Causi / NY Post]-Louis Choi powers up the tool after
grueling workouts at Tone House. [Zandy Mangold]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
