
                               2 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 24, 2018 Saturday

'Bake' climate news No doubt that it's changing, feds say

BYLINE: Ruth Brown

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 475 words


The federal government on Friday released a massive report warning climate
change is real and already having a devastating impact on the US - just days
after President Trump mocked the idea of global warming.

The National Climate Assessment, a congressionally mandated report by more than
a dozen federal agencies, says climate change will bring more extreme weather
disasters like wildfires, hurricanes and heat waves - and cost the economy
hundreds of billions by the end of the century.

By that time, the country will be 3 to 12 degrees hotter, depending on how much
action is taken to curb greenhouse-gas emissions, the report warns.

"Earth's climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of
modern civilization, primarily as a result of human activities," the study says.

"The impacts of global climate change are already being felt in the United
States and are projected to intensify in the future - but the severity of future
impacts will depend largely on actions taken to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions
and to adapt to the changes that will occur."

The report, which runs more than 1,600 pages, was issued two days after Trump
riled scientists by tweeting: "Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL
RECORDS - Whatever happened to Global Warming?"

The report left no doubt that the planet is heating up.

"Glaciers and snow cover are shrinking, and sea ice is retreating. Seas are
warming, rising and becoming more acidic, and marine species are moving to new
locations toward cooler waters. Flooding is becoming more frequent along the US
coastline," the report reads.

In the last three years alone, the US "has experienced 44 billion-dollar weather
and climate disasters" like hurricanes and fires - racking up a bill of around
$400 billion, the study says.

"We are seeing the things we said would be happening, happen now in real life,"
said co-author Katharine Hayhoe, a climate scientist at Texas Tech University.

The report estimates that deaths due to extreme heat will take a fiscal toll of
between $60 billion and $140 billion by 2090, while $238 billion to $507 billion
worth of real estate will be below sea level by 2100.

It also details how climate change could affect specific US regions.

In Northeastern states, rising sea levels are leading to an increase in coastal
flooding that is set to get worse - and much of the region's infrastructure
isn't up to the challenge, the report warns.

Property losses from hurricanes and other storms in the region could increase by
$6 billion to $9 billion per year by the end of the century.

The report was supposed to come out in December, but the publication date was
moved up to Friday - in a move some criticized as an attempt to bury the news on
the busy shopping day after Thanksgiving.

With   Wires

rbrown@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Storm Warning: Extreme weather events like Hurricane Michael that hit
Florida in October could become more common, according to a US report issued
Friday that called climate change real and devastating. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 28, 2018 Wednesday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by Sohrab Ahmari

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 718 words


Reporter: The Secret to Pot Success in Albany

How can a building contractor, an ex-police chief, a plumber, a shoe-store owner
and a security contractor turn their small investments in a medical-pot firm,
NYCanna, into a $40 million-plus concern? It helped to be "politically
connected," per Tim Knauss of the Syracuse New Times, who writes that "no amount
of money matters unless you can secure a license." The process is opaque: "New
York gave out licenses based on written applications that were scored by Albany
bureaucrats. But the major part of each application was kept secret, raising
suspicions among critics that they were not graded consistently." In NYCanna's
case, two of the founders were "friends and long-time political backers of
former Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney," an ally of Gov. Cuomo, "whose
health department awarded licenses." Nice work if you can get it.

Physicist: Cool It With the Warming Hysteria

Global-warming activists freaked out over last week's US government climate
report, but NYU's Steve Koonis at The Wall Street Journal urges calm. The gloom
centers on the report's prediction of a climate-induced slowdown in the US
economy, "yet a close reading of the report shows" the overall impact "is
expected to be quite small." Once you factor in the time scale of nearly a
century, "the projected reduction in the average annual growth rate" from
climate change "is a mere 0.05 percentage point." The former Obama official
concludes: "Human-induced climate change isn't an existential threat to the
overall economy through the end of this century - or even a significant one."

Legal Scholar: Impeachment Is No Political Toy

"The criminal-justice system must not be used to even scores" or "garner
political points," writes Harvard Law's Alan Dershowitz in The Hill. Yet that's
what both parties are doing. "The law should require that criminal prosecution
be a last resort against only clear violations of narrowly defined federal
statutes." Under that standard, "President Trump should not be accused of
'collusion,' which simply is not criminal under the law." By the same token,
"neither Hillary Clinton nor James Comey should be prosecuted for political sins
that do not rise to the level of crimes." Those alarmed by today's
politicization of justice, however, can take comfort in the fact that it has a
long history: Jefferson and Lincoln, among other historical greats, were tempted
to do the same thing.

Foreign Desk: Sanction Venezuela as a Terror Regime

"The Trump administration has spent the last two years making up for two full
terms of the Obama administration's naive optimism in Venezuela," observe the
editors of The Weekly Standard. Trump has identified Caracas as a "totalitarian
regime" and sanctioned its top leadership. Now it's time for the next step:
"designating Venezuela as a state sponsor of terrorism." This "has been used by
successive administrations to call out regimes that repeatedly support
international terrorism." And Venezuela "has continued allowing terror groups to
operate there while the country descends into chaos." Caracas doesn't cooperate
with American counterterror efforts. It has ties to terror groups like the
Lebanese Hezbollah. And it's a friend to Tehran. A terror designation "will
force those companies that have chosen to continue doing business in Venezuela
to finally reckon with the nature of the regime."

From the Left: Pelosi Tells Reformers To Take a Hik e

As if the turmoil brewing on her left flank weren't enough, House Dem leader
Nancy Pelosi now has another problem, notes Jim Newell in Slate: "the Democratic
membership of the House Problem Solvers Caucus, a bipartisan, moderate caucus
affiliated with the centrist political advocacy group No Labels." Those members
are threatening to withhold their votes from Pelosi's leadership bid unless she
allows "for more transparency and bipartisan governing." But "what they really
want is a loosening of congressional leadership's total control of what
legislation reaches the floor." Not surprisingly, Pelosi is resisting efforts to
have her relinquish power - well, not exactly: She's promised to "establish a
select committee" to study the Problem Solvers' ideas. Which is
congressional-speak for: Nice try, buddy. Take a hike.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicolas Maduro.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 6, 2018 Thursday

Wall St. sweats out Friday

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 854 words


A week ago Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said two important
things that caused the Dow Jones industrial average to rally more than 600
points.

One, he said that interest rates were close to neutral. This was a change from
statements Powell made not long ago when he said they were far from neutral,
which is the point at which interest rates don't help or hurt the economy.

Two, Powell also said that the decision on interest rates would be
data-dependent. That means even though rates may be close to neither helping nor
hurting the economy, that view could change with every new piece of economic
data that's released.

With that in mind, Friday is going to be a big day for Wall Street if the latest
monthly employment data come in either too weak or too strong.

The impression that Powell gave last week will be reinforced if the Labor
Department reports a disappointing number of jobs created in November. And
Powell's words will be thrashed if the report comes in too strong on either the
number of jobs created or the growth in wages.

What would be considered too strong? Wall Street is expecting growth of about
200,000 jobs and a jobless rate of 3.7 percent.

There were 250,000 jobs created in October, so the prediction is that November
saw a decline in employment growth. The jobless rate was at 3.7 percent in
October, so no change is expected there.

The "experts" are also expecting growth of 3 cents in hourly wages in the
November report, which would be lower than the growth of 5 cents reported in
October.

Because of all the guesswork that goes into this monthly report, I don't hold
much faith that it actually gives a snapshot of what the economy is doing in any
given time. But that's just me.

Wall Street takes this stuff very seriously because it provides traders with a
reason to push stock and bond prices up, or drag them down.

December's figure will be the first test of how seriously Wall Street will take
Powell's declaration that the Fed is now dependent on data for its interest-rate
decisions.

But one thing is almost certain - no matter how bad the November job figure
might be, Powell will raise interest rates at the Fed meeting in the middle of
December. The other certainty: President Trump won't be happy.

The Post - like plenty of other companies - is having its holiday party in a
couple of weeks.

No, you aren't invited. But since I am going, I thought it would be wise, given
the current social climate, to make a list of the topics that are safe, or not,
to discuss over a glass of nog.

I'm even going to laminate my list and wrap it around my wrist,
quarterback-style. Feel free to copy this for your party.

l    Donald Trump. Nope, you can't bring up that name, whether you like him or
not. You can say that Scrooge was your distant cousin, but don't dare to mention
the president's name.

l    "You are looking well." This is safe and much better than "you are looking
great, hot, tired, sad or drunk," which might require an explanation that could
make your conversation wander into forbidden territory.

"You look slim," is out. It implies the person wasn't always thin.

l    "It sure has been hot, cold, wet, dry" - or any other description of the
weather. No good. Unless you have a degree in meteorology or have stood on TV in
front of a weather map, you are not qualified to discuss a topic that is fraught
with political undercurrents about global warming.

l   "How's things?" This is an icebreaker that's safe unless you let it lead to
a conversation about personal matters that you have no right knowing. Besides,
you really don't want to know how things are. So avoid this opening line.

l     "Seen any good movies lately?" If you are lucky, the person you are
talking with will mention a couple - "Bohemian Rhapsody" was particularly good,
but I slept through "Creed 2" - and change the subject.

Never ask: "Who'd you go with?" If the person with whom you are talking is
looking for an issue to bring to human resources, he or she will allege that you
are snooping into personal life.

l    "Nice holiday party, isn't it?" You are safe here because you said
"holiday" party. But this could lead to problems if the other person says, "No,
it isn't a nice party." Or "the appetizers are pretty cheap," or "you'd think a
company like this could afford better."

How's that a problem? If the person you are talking with happens to get canned
in the next six months, you are likely to be fingered as the person who pegged
him or her as a complainer.

Of course, these topics are also off-limits: sex, new marijuana laws, Bill and
Hillary , Hillary and Bill, your hip replacement (which violates HIPAA
regulations), Justice Brett Kavanaugh, Bill Cosby, the Catholic Church and
whether the Knicks will ever win another championship.

So, what's left?

I don't know about you, but I'm going to use the few remaining inoffensive
icebreakers, keep my mouth so full of warm pulled-pork sliders that I can't
talk, head straight to the men's room and hide in a stall.

Bonne fête!

john.crudele@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 26, 2018 Thursday

Franc, friendly slap at Le Donald

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 388 words


After two days of hearty handshakes and pecks on the cheek, French President
Emmanuel Macron soundly rejected Trumpism during a Wednesday speech before a
joint session of Congress.

Macron issued a full-throated defense of the Paris climate accord, and vowed to
honor the existing Iran nuclear deal - both of which President Trump has
rejected as part of his America-first foreign policy.

"The United States is the one who invented this multilateralism," Macron said.
"You are the one now who has to preserve and reinvent it."

Among the issues on which Macron politely but pointedly broke ranks on the final
day of his three-day US visit was the international climate-change accord forged
in his country in 2015.

"Let us face it: There is no 'Planet B,' " Macron said in support of the Paris
Agreement, from which Trump withdrew the United States in June 2017.

"I'm sure one day, the United States will come back and join the Paris
Agreement," Macron said. "Let us work together in order to make our planet great
again!"

Macron also vowed that - at least in lieu of a viable alternative - France would
honor the Obama-era Iran nuclear deal, which Trump has blasted as "insane" and
"ridiculous."

Still, Macron remained open to negotiating a new nuclear deal - as Trump wants -
and proclaimed, "Iran shall never possess any nuclear weapons. Not now, not in
five years, not in 10 years - never."

Democratic lawmakers were quick to piggyback on Macron's rebuke of Trumpism -
which came just a day after the two presidents palled around at the White House,
exchanging traditional French cheek-pecks and engaging in playful banter before
the press.

"Macron seduced Trump and the GOP with all the hugs and kisses," tweeted Rep.
Jamie Raskin (D-Md.). "[Macron's] message is to ditch authoritarianism and the
Alt-Right and stand up for strong democracy and human rights."

After the speech, Macron visited the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial with
frequent Trump critic Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.).

Macron later posted on Twitter a video of the two sharing a warm hug. During the
32-second clip, Macron is heard saying, "Thanks for everything."

Prior to Macron's speech, Trump tweeted he was "looking forward to watching . .
. he will be GREAT!"

As of Wednesday evening, Trump had not publicly reacted to the speech.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wow Oui: French President Emmanuel Macron dazzles a joint session of
Congress with a speech Wednesday in which he called for the US to rejoin the
Paris climate pact. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 10, 2018 Tuesday

S'bucks scraps plastic straws

BYLINE: Carl Stier

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 178 words


Starbucks, bending to growing environmental concerns, will eliminate plastic
straws by 2020.

The move by the ubiquitous java joint will affect its more than 28,000 stores,
it said Monday.

"Starbucks, the largest food and beverage retailer to make such a global
commitment, anticipates the move will eliminate more than one billion plastic
straws per year from Starbucks stores," it said.

Single-use plastic straws are already being taken out of over 8,000 US and
Canada locations, where strawless lids are now standard.

Starbucks will change to straws made from compostable materials.

Starbucks regulars in Seattle and Vancouver will be first to experience the
changes, as they roll out this fall.

Meanwhile, McDonald's announced in June that it would transition to paper straws
in its UK and Ireland eateries beginning this September.

Honoring its commitment to the Paris climate change accord, McDonald's plans to
reduce its greenhouse gas emissions 36 percent by 2030.

Starbucks shares closed Monday at $49.90, up 1.9 percent.

cstier@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 16, 2018 Tuesday

Blas' Foolish Fossil Fuel Suit

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 214 words


The Issue: Mayor de Blasio's announcement that the city will sue five oil
companies over climate change.

Mayor de Blasio has filed a lawsuit against "big oil" for the damage done by
Hurricane Sandy ("DeB leaves them cold," Jan. 14).

This from a mayor who sees nothing wrong with traveling to his Brooklyn gym with
an armada of SUVs.  Bill Isler Floral Park

New York City is well within its rights to divest its pension funds of any and
all fossil-fuel stocks.

I sincerely hope the de Blasio administration has a plan to invest in something
that will give the city the return it will need on investment to pay for all of
their promises.  Ken Meyer Lawrence, Kan.

De Blasio is playing a dangerous game that could cost some New York pension
funds. And the city could end up spending tens of millions in legal fees.

The city has its own climate problem, and it's de Blasio.  Robert Neglia The
Bronx

Jet fuel is a major source of hydrocarbon pollution.

If frequent flyer de Blasio really wants to fight climate change, he should
cancel the globe-trotting and cross-country flights he takes to promote his
progressive agenda.

If not, he's just adding more hot air to our atmosphere. He was elected to run
our city, not run away from it. Richard Reif Kew Garden Hills

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 12, 2018 Monday

Oil cos. blast Blas climate-suit ploy

BYLINE: Michael Gartland

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 210 words


An ad campaign attacking Mayor de Blasio's plan to sue oil companies over
climate change is set to launch Monday.

The Manufacturers' Accountability Project - a brainchild of the National
Association of Manufacturers - is launching the social-media blitz to highlight
what it called Hizzoner's "politically motivated" attacks on manufacturers.

"Mayor de Blasio's attack on manufacturers is just the latest example of the
mayor taking his marching orders from deep-pocketed activist foundations and
trial lawyers looking for a big payday on the backs of taxpayers," said Linda
Kelly, senior vice president and general counsel of the National Association of
Manufacturers.

De Blasio announced last month that the city had filed a lawsuit against BP,
Chevron, Conoco-Phillips, ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell, claiming their
fossil fuels produce 11 percent of the Earth's global-warming gases.

The suit "seeks to shift the costs of protecting the city from climate-change
impacts back onto the companies that have done nearly all they could to create
this existential threat."

City Hall spokesman Eric Phillips slammed the new campaign.

"Shadowy groups funded by Big Oil won't keep the mayor from fighting for our
planet and city's future," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 18, 2018 Sunday

Trump flies in for a look

BYLINE: Michael Hechtman

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 384 words


Three youngsters wearing breathing masks and holding a large US flag welcomed
President Trump to California as the state continued to reel from deadly fires
Saturday.

The children greeted the commander-in-chief as his motorcade passed through
their city of Chico, en route to the town of Paradise, which was all but
destroyed by wildfire.

Trump spent his visit consoling Californians suffering from two tragedies.

He walked through the ashes of Paradise in the northern part of the state and
later met with families grieving from a mass shooting at a popular college bar
outside Los Angeles.

"This has been a tough day when you look at all of the death from one place to
the next," Trump told reporters before flying back to D.C.

The president walked through the ashes of a mobile home park in Paradise, later
remarking on the "total devastation."

Asked during his tour if the gigantic blaze changed his mind about climate
change - which he has called a "hoax'' - the president responded, "No, no.''

But he also acknowledged that global warming "contributes a little bit'' to
wildfires.

Still, "the big problem we have is management," he said, though he hastened to
add, "We have incredible people doing the job."

Trump began the day at the White House with another dig at "forest management"
in California.

"There is no reason for these massive, deadly and costly forest fires in
California except that forest management is so poor," he said.

Later, at a press conference in Northern California, he suggested emulating
Finland, which has no shortage of forests and few fires. "They spend a lot of
time raking" the forest floor, he said.

At one point, Trump said he and California Gov. Jerry Brown are "on the same
path" in terms of forest management.

Before flying back east, he met briefly at an airport hangar with families and
first responders impacted by the shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill in
Thousand Oaks.

The shooting left 12 dead.

"What can you say other than it's so sad to see," he said after the meeting.
"These are great people. Great families, torn apart," he told reporters. "We
just hugged them and we kissed them - and everybody. And it was very warm."

He added: "It was tragic and yet, in one way, it was a very beautiful moment."

With Wires

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On patrol: President Trump on Saturday eyes the California town of
Paradise, which has been decimated by wildfires. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 14, 2018 Thursday

Fast Takes

BYLINE: Compiled by Nicholas Rowan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 684 words


From the right: Dems Don't Care About the Environment

Democrats want gas taxes to fight global warming. But at the same time, they
blame President Trump for high gas prices, writes Todd Myers at National Review,
calling the party out for a "cynical" environmental strategy. "When it is
politically useful to attack the president on climate change, they accuse him of
destroying the planet," he writes. "When the better line of attack is to lament
the impact of high gas prices on families, some on the left kick aside their
purported environmental principles in favor of politics." Myers targets Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer specifically, charging him with spearheading "the
latest manifestation of the left's disingenuous environmentalism." To truly
protect the environment, Myers recommends instead embracing "a commitment to
technology that sees consumer knowledge and empowerment, not restrictions, as
the key to environmental stewardship."

Numbers cruncher: Pension Plans Face Uncertain Future

Many defined-benefit pension plans are in danger of going bust, warns Aliya Wong
at The Hill. Plans that cover retirees who moved from job to job throughout
their careers face a $124 billion shortfall and are in danger of going bankrupt
within the next five years. "The amounts are so large that they could cause many
employers to go into bankruptcy, with a snowballing effect on jobs and the
economy," she writes. "Not to mention, the government backstop for these plans -
the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) - is itself predicted to go
bust by 2025." Solving the problem, Wong argues, will require composite plans to
ensure multiemployer plans remain afloat.

Foreign desk: What Is John Bolton's Role in Korea Talks?

National Security Advisor John Bolton's low-key presence at this week's North
Korea summit has stirred debate about his role in the negotiations. At The
Atlantic, Rosie Gray explains that Bolton's transformation from outspoken hawk
to behind-the-scenes voice is "the latest case study in the administration in
how much an adviser's views and ideology can really influence - or not influence
- Trump." Gray speculates that Bolton still plays an active role in the
proceedings, but in a less-public way because of his well-known history with
North Korea - such as advising a preemptive strike on the reclusive state. In
turn, North Korea has called him "human scum and a bloodsucker." Gray speculates
that this history influenced Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to persuade Trump
into keeping Bolton away from the North Koreans, calling meetings
"counterproductive."

From the left: NRA Removes Pro-Gun Lawmaker Scores

The NRA has removed its past ratings for lawmakers, reports Cristina Cabrera at
Talking Points Memo. Cabrera speculates that the development "signals that a
positive rating from the hardline pro-gun group could be becoming a scarlet
letter for politicians as gun-control activists gain momentum in the wake of the
Parkland high school shooting massacre." According to the NRA, the change is an
"IT glitch," but an unnamed employee told The Washington Post that the
organization took down the ratings because pro-gun lawmakers' "enemies" were
using them. Several lawmakers, such as Representative Mike Bishop (R-Mich.) have
removed NRA ratings from their own Web sites, calling the change "an update" but
not a shift in gun-control position.

Media file: CJR's Al Jazeera Conflict-of-Interest

At Commentary, Sohrab Ahmari takes aim at a recent essay in the Columbia
Journalism Review defending Al Jazeera against charges that it should register
as a foreign agent in the United States. The essay's authors have a clear
conflict of interest, he notes: Al Jazeera on-air host Mhamed Krichen is a board
member for their employer, the Committee to Protect Journalists. Plus, Al
Jazeera operates as the propaganda arm of Qatar's Muslim Brotherhood - running
shows that endorse Hitler and the Holocaust. In all, he says, it's
"embarrassing" for CJR that it let the authors "eschew or only lightly touch on
Al Jazeera's less savory aspects."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Bolton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 18, 2018 Monday

RFK Jr.'s bid to put hex on Exxon

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words


Environmental activist Robert Kennedy Jr. sent a secret legal memo to then-state
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, urging him to ban ExxonMobil from doing
business in New York for allegedly misleading the public for decades about
climate change.

The 17-page Jan. 5, 2016, memo obtained by The Post comes under the heading,
"Revocation of Exxon Mobil Authority to do Business in New York" and talks about
imposing a "corporate death penalty" on the oil giant.

The document came just weeks after the former attorney launched a securities
probe on whether ExxonMobil misled investors on the costs of climate chance.

Corporations must obtain a certificate of authority to operate in New York if
they were incorporated elsewhere.

"Exxon Mobil's subterfuge amounts to a crime against humanity," said the
document from the Pace Environmental Litigation Clinic, co-founded by Kennedy
(right). "By delaying government action for a quarter century, Exxon Mobil has
caused massive and predictable environmental damage in New York State."

ExxonMobil has more than 1,000 gas stations in New York and does $4 billion per
year in sales, accounting for 21 percent of the auto- fuels market in the state,
according to the memo.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Robert F. Kennedy Jr. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 28, 2018 Sunday

Climate change-up Plan to 'raise' park - right after $2M fix

BYLINE: Dean Balsamini

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 673 words


The city's plan to "lift" East River Park by 8 to 10 feet will mean bulldozing
millions of dollars in new park amenities unveiled just last month, burying them
under tons of dirt and closing the entire oasis for 3½ years.

Some residents are scratching their heads that the city will flush new features
and close the park again so soon after spending $2.8 million to deliver a new
soccer field and resurfaced running track.

The work, to begin in 2020, is part of a massive, $1.45 billion flood-prevention
plan to protect the area from storm surges.

The revised design will elevate the surface of the 40-acre park between the East
River and FDR Drive by dumping tons of soil and fill between 13th and Cherry
streets, raise and rebuild the esplanade along the river by boosting the height
of the pilings underneath, and erect a flood wall at the river's edge.

At the height of Hurricane Sandy, lower Manhattan was plunged into darkness and
the Con Edison substation on East 13th Street was flooded, sparking a
transformer explosion that knocked out part of the island's grid.

The new plan would protect against such catastrophic flooding.

But the collateral damage is the park and its baseball, football, soccer,
basketball, tennis and track facilities, which will be bulldozed and covered,
said a Department of Design and Construction official.

It's not known what will happen to the historic 1941 amphitheater, situated
between Jackson and Grand streets, which has hosted the likes of salsa legend
Willie Colon and rapper KRS-One. The legendary Joseph Papp, founder of
Shakespeare in the Park and the Public Theater, staged "Julius Caesar" there in
1956.

City officials have assured residents there would be "an amphitheater space" in
the final product.

"On a project of this magnitude and importance, which will change the face of
the east side of Manhattan and provide flood protections for 110,000 New
Yorkers, it's essential we get this right," said Seth Stein, a spokesman for
Mayor de Blasio.

He said the redesign "will protect the community a full year sooner [than the
earlier plan] and provide them with a world-class park at the completion of this
process.

"Rest assured, the existing structures and park features will be replaced and
improved," Stein added.

But many residents are miffed at the apparent waste of money and their
recreational routines being disrupted again.

"It's incredibly stupid to close it down after finally fixing it up," runner Lyn
Seltzer, 70, told The Post as he prepared to use "the best 400-meter track south
of Randalls Island.

"I'm shocked and disappointed," he added. "They spent [millions] on it for two
years of use!"

Awad Foster, 46, who was training 50 middle- and high-school track and field
athletes on the refurbished field, fumed.

"It's crazy!" he said. "If they are going to do it, they should do it section by
section. They shouldn't close the park down."

Gilberto Aponte, 45, who plays soccer and jogs at the park four times a week,
was crestfallen when informed of the impending closure.

"I'm really going to miss this," he said. "I love everything. The breeze, the
view."

Parks Commissioner Mitchell Silver said the agency is already thinking about how
to bring recreational alternatives to park users.

"We are going to start those conversations with a public meeting and how to
address the other public spaces surrounding the park," he said.

"We have from now until March 2020," he continued. "We are looking at city-owned
spaces, parks as options for recreation during construction."

Stein said City Hall "will be able to answer the communities' design questions
in the coming weeks."

East River Park (SEE CROSS SECTION BELOW)

NYC is planning a $1.45B flood-prevention plan at East River Park to protect the
area from storm surges:

* FDR Drive

* Existing walkway

* Existing elevation; New elevation - To be raised about 8-10 feet

* Existing esplanade; New esplanade structure; New flood wall

dbalsamini@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: $INKING RETURNS: East River Park in lower Manhattan is a great venue
for runners, but recently installed amenities will be bulldozed and buried under
a $1.45 billion plan to protect the area from flooding. A mayoral rep insists
the amenities will be replaced. [Helayne Seidman]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 16, 2018 Friday

How To Prevent Wildfires: Prepare for the Worst

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 365 words


The Issue: President Trump's criticism of California's forest management during
widespread wildfires.

The intent of President Trump's comments on how to help control frequent
California fires was correct but was misconstrued because of his choice of words
("Prez a pain in the ash," Nov. 12).

Americans watch the destruction of homes and loss of life and forests every
year, and our firefighters are being put at risk, at great taxpayer cost.

Trump is correct that we need to take preventative measures: Ditches and fire
lines need to be established, and forest rangers need to be given additional
assistance and training to prevent or to catch fires and stop them immediately.

Drones could be used for monitoring these vast areas. Fire-resistant chemicals
could be applied in high-risk areas or on boundary control-lines before the fire
starts. Suzanne Chute

Manhattan

California has been engulfed in smoke and flames while politicians sit back in
their chairs, tweeting and claiming climate change isn't real.

Many people in California have been evacuating, fearing that their homes will
join the millions of acres of land that have been destroyed.

Trump's disbelief in climate change has resulted in him claiming that the fires
are causes by "mismanagement" of the forests. He tweeted that there needs to be
proper management of forests, or federal funding will stop.

Our president is showing little-to-no compassion for the people who are losing
everything in these fires. He should be showing sympathy for people who are
losing their lives or homes, not tweeting threats.

Kylie Passow

Pinckney, Mich.

I am so sorry for those who lost their lives and homes in California. It is a
never-ending battle.

I've written for years that most of these disasters can be avoided or greatly
reduced: California must cut down its beautiful timberland and cut mile-long
paths through forests so fires can't spread, and so firefighters have paths to
fight flames and, more important, opportunities to retreat. D. Mann

Miller Place

It's much too late for these California fires, but fire lanes should have been
implemented long ago. W.T. Gluck

Garden City

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: California firefighters sifting through rubble. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 9, 2018 Sunday

Don: Paris wants me!

BYLINE: eileen aj connelly and mary kay linge

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 374 words


President Trump crowed over violent protests in Paris on Saturday, saying they
prove he was right to withdraw the US from the global pact to fight climate
change.

"The Paris Agreement isn't working out so well for Paris," Trump tweeted
Saturday morning as a day of violence and arrests unfolded.

"Protests and riots all over France. People do not want to pay large sums of
money, much to third world countries (that are questionably run), in order to
maybe protect the environment. Chanting 'We Want Trump!' Love France."

About 130 people were injured and authorities made more than 1,000 arrests
during the fourth straight weekend of anti-government protests in Paris.

The demonstrations started out in opposition to a gas-tax hike, which was, in
fact, aimed at curbing greenhouse-gas emissions as part of the Paris Agreement.

French President Emmanuel Macron suspended the hike last week, but protesters
have continued to criticize the government, saying Macron cares only about the
rich.

As for Trump's claim that protesters had chanted, "We want Trump," French news
wire Agence France-Presse and leading French daily Le Monde said its reporters
found no evidence to support that.

Paris was on lockdown Saturday, with armored trucks and the hiss of tear gas
filling central Paris.

A ring of steel surrounded the president's Élysée Palace, while many shops were
closed during what's usually a busy holiday shopping season.

Police and protesters also clashed in other French cities including Marseille,
Toulouse and Bordeaux and in neighboring Belgium.

As the chaos continued, Trump doubled down on his morning missive.

"Very sad day & night in Paris," he tweeted. "Maybe it's time to end the
ridiculous and extremely expensive Paris Agreement and return money back to the
people in the form of lower taxes?"

Trump's comments appearing to sympathize with dangerous protesters in a friendly
country went against longstanding precedent for US presidents.

"His comments about the French protests are completely out of character
typically for a sitting US president," said Michael Geary of the Wilson
Institute's Global Europe Program.

"He has said nothing about his hopes for a return to calm."

With Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riotous claim: Police battle protesters in Paris Saturday, as President
Trump spun the unrest to claim he has the right idea on his climate policies.
[Alain Jocard / AFP / Getty Images; AFP / Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 4, 2018 Sunday

POSTSCRIPT - OPINIONS & IDEAS; Humanity Getting better all the time Think the
world's going to hell in a handbasket? Stats from a new book show the opposite
is true

BYLINE: SUSANNAH CAHALAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1541 words


Guys, it's really not that bad. In fact, it's the best it's ever been.

That's Harvard psychologist Steven Pinker's argument in his new book
"Enlightenment Now" (Viking). We may be inundated with horrific stories of
school shootings, natural disasters due to climate change and Russian hacking -
but Pinker still believes there's never been a better time to be alive.

His 550-page door-stopper, a spiritual follow-up to 2011's "The Better Angels of
Our Nature," which argued the world is less violent than ever, shows that our
planet is also smarter, safer, richer and happier. Bill Gates is one of the most
vocal supporters of the new tome, calling it "my new favorite book of all time."

"The world has made spectacular progress in every single measure of human
well-being. Here is the second shocker: Almost no one knows about it," Pinker
writes.

He argues that the 18th century Enlightenment ideals of reason over
irrationality, science over dogma, and humanism and peace over tribalism and war
have been cornerstones of progress - and are now in need of a passionate
defense.

"Not every problem is a Crisis, Plague, Epidemic or Existential Threat, and not
every change is the End of This, the Death of That or the Dawn of a
Post-Something Era. Don't confuse pessimism with profundity: problems are
inevitable, but problems are solvable, and diagnosing every setback as a symptom
of a sick society is a cheap grab for gravitas," Pinker writes.

Pinker urges people to look at the bigger picture and dive into the data.

Specifically:

n  The global average IQ score is rising about 3 points every decade.

n  The world is a hundred times wealthier than it was two centuries ago and
prosperity is becoming more evenly distributed.

n  Today people work less, have more vacation days and spend less time on
housework.

"Remember your math: An anecdote is not a trend. Remember your history: The fact
that something is bad today doesn't mean it was better in the past," Pinker
argues. "For all the bleeding headlines, for all the crises, collapses,
scandals, plagues, epidemics and existential threats, these are accomplishments
to savor."

Here's even more evidence of his theories from "Enlightenment Now" . . .

We're less prejudiced

The search for racist and homophobic jokes took a precipitous fall from 2005 to
2017 - while sexist jokes (oddly) show an uptick between 2010 and 2014 followed
by another fall from 2014 to 2017. This data, gathered by Google Trends,
suggests that "Americans are not just more abashed about confessing to prejudice
than they used to be; they privately don't find it as amusing." This trend
continues "contrary to the fear that the rise of Trump reflects (or emboldens)
prejudice." Pinker writes:

"Private prejudice is declining with time and declining with youth, which means
that we can expect it to decline still further as aging bigots cede the stage to
less prejudiced cohorts."

CHART

Frequency of searches

- Racist jokes

- Homophobic jokes

- Sexist jokes

Source: Pinker via Google Trends

We're smarter

Pinker believes that the growth of education - represented by the growth of
literacy - is a "flagship of human progress." Educated people tend to be less
racist, sexist, homophobic, place higher values on imagination and are more
likely to vote, volunteer and trust their fellow citizens. Before the 17th
century, literacy was "the privilege of a small elite in Western Europe." Now 83
percent of the world is literate. Even that figure underestimates the future of
literacy, writes Pinker. "In many Middle Eastern and North African countries,
more than three-quarters of the people over 65 are illiterate, whereas the rate
for those in their teens and 20s is in the single digits. The world literacy
rate for young adults (aged 15 to 24) in 2010 was 91 percent."

CHART

- Literate world population

- Illiterate world population

Source: Our World in Data based on OECD and UNESCO 2016

We have more disposable income

In addition to having more time on our hands thanks to reduced housework (time
doing laundry dropped from 11.5 hours a week in 1920 to an hour and a half in
2014, for example), we also have more disposable income for non-essentials. In
1929, Americans spent more than 60 percent of their money on necessities -
today, that number is closer to a third. "As the necessities of life get
cheaper, we . . . have more time and money left over."

CHART

US spending on the basics as a share of disposable personal income

Source: Pinker via Humanprogress.org

We are living longer

Life expectancy in America in 2015 is 78.96 years - nine years longer than it
was a half-century ago. Since the mid-18th century, global life expectancy rose
from 29 years (where it had hovered for 225 years) to around 71.4 in 2015. Back
in the 1700s, "a third of children born in the richest parts of the world died
before their fifth birthday; today that fate befalls 6 percent of the children
in the poorest parts," writes Pinker.

CHART

- Average life expectancy

Source: Pinker via Our World in Data

We are safer

From driving a car to walking the streets, it's safer today than it was during
the first half of the 20th century. This is thanks to "laws, building codes,
inspection regimes and best practices" that have worked to make our world safer.
Since the 1930s, the chance that Americans will fall to their death has declined
by 72 percent because they are protected by railings, signs and guards.

Deaths by fire or water have declined by around 90 percent each thanks to
preventative measures like fire education and increased awareness of the risks
of allowing small children near even shallow water. The only increase on the
graph (and it's a large increase) is seen in poisonings - because accidental
poisonings include drug overdoses.

CHART

deaths per 100,000 people per year

- Poison (solid or liquid)

- Falls

- Fire

- Drowning

-Poison (gas or vapor)

Source: Pinker via Our World in Data

We are freer

After a big increase in democratic countries following the fall of the Berlin
Wall, there was a "third wave" of democracies in the form of "color
revolutions"- which include countries like Croatia, Serbia, Georgia, Ukraine and
Kyrgyzstan - that have helped push the total number of global democracies to 103
as of 2015. These 103 countries house 56 percent of the world. "If we add the 17
countries that were more democratic than autocratic, we get a total of
two-thirds of the world's population living in free or relatively free
societies, compared with less than two-fifths in 1950 and seven percent in
1850," Pinker writes.

"Of all the people living in the 60 non-democratic countries today, four-fifths
reside in a single country, China."

CHART

democracy vs. autocracy score

Source: Pinker via HumanProgress

We are richer

The story of global wealth goes as follows: "nothing . . . nothing . . . nothing
. . . boom!" writes Pinker. The world's income tripled between 1820 and 1900; 50
years later it tripled again; another 25 years and it tripled again; 33 years
later it once more increased by a magnitude of three. And this isn't true of
just the world's richest nations. Since 1995, 30 of the world's 109 developing
countries, including Bangladesh, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Georgia, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Panama, Rwanda, Uzbekistan and Vietnam have enjoyed income growth
rates that doubled every 18 years.

CHART

2011 international dollars

-World GDP over the last two millenia

Source: World GDP - Our World in Data

Birth rates are falling

The world population growth rate peaked at 2.1% in 1962, falling to 1.2% in
2010. Pinker estimates that by 2050, our growth rate will be less than .5
percent and might hit zero by 2070. He attributes this trend to the growing
wealth and education in the world, where "parents no longer breed large broods
as insurance" and women delay having children. Though fertility rates have
fallen in developed countries like Europe and Japan, he's also seen this trend
in other parts of the world. "Despite the widespread belief that Muslim
societies are resistant to the social changes that have transformed the West,"
writes Pinker, "Muslim countries have seen a 40 percent decline in fertility
over the past three decades, including a 70 percent drop in Iran and a 60
percent drop in Bangladesh."

CHART

- Growth rate

Source: Pinker via Our World in Data

Nature is rebounding

As the world has grown richer, nature has started to "rebound," Pinker writes.
Since 1970 when the Environmental Protection Agency was established, the US saw
emissions of five air pollutants fall by almost two-thirds, while energy use has
leveled off. Meanwhile, the population grew by 40 percent and became
two-and-a-half times richer. Pinker writes that "these diverging curves refute
both the orthodox Green claim that only a degrowth can curb pollution and the
orthodox right-wing claim that environmental protection must sabotage economic
growth and people's standard of living."

percentage of change

- GDP

- Vehicle miles

- Emissions (5 pollutants)

- Energy

- CO2

-Population

Source: Pinker via US Environmental Protection Agency

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Despite all the forecasts of doom and gloom in today's news,
psychologist Steven Pinker uses data to argue there's much to be optimistic
about, in his new book (below).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 17, 2018 Wednesday

UNSAVORY SECRETS The terrifying truths behind your favorite foods will make you
hungry for something else Fake 'n' bake

BYLINE: and Reed Tucker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1203 words


THE issues raised in the new Netflix documentary series "Rotten" are a concern -
but only if you eat food, as one talking head puts it.

Those of us who are able to attain sustenance from sunlight alone can go ahead
and happily binge "The Crown," but the rest of us may have an alarming education
coming with regard to some of the things we probably consume nearly every day.

"Rotten" is meant to illuminate the "intersection between food and crime," and
each of the episodes spins an alarming behind-the-scenes story involving a
particular ingredient.

What's actually in that bottle of honey? Under what conditions was that chicken
raised?

If this all sounds a bit scary, you're right. But the intention is not to put us
off eating certain foods forever.

"I want the viewers to start asking questions of manufacturers and grocers,"
says Christine Haughney, the series' investigative reporter and Politico's
agricultural reporter. "Where does the fish come from?

Where does the honey come from? If they start asking more questions, they have
the right to get more answers." Haughney gives us all the rotten details.

Peanuts

Something has happened in recent decades. Our bodies now appear to be rejecting
the food we eat. Food allergies have massively spiked in recent years,
especially among children. Some 6 million kids are now intolerant of certain
foods, sometimes with potentially deadly consequences.

It's unclear exactly what is causing the surge. One theory is that our food is
getting more polluted, such as with peanuts, which are a major source of
allergies.

"Peanuts are a legume, they grow in the earth, and one theory is that we have
more pesticides in the soil," Haughney says.

A 2012 study published in the Annals of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology found
that chemicals in tap water were linked to food allergies. The findings
suggested that ingesting a particular chemical found in pesticides and
weedkillers could lead to food intolerance.

Another theory posits that our pursuit of cleanliness and overuse of antibiotics
no longer allows our bodies to be exposed to germs, potentially triggering a
mistaken allergic response to certain food proteins.

Yet another hypothesis points the finger at climate change.

Warmer weather has led to longer growing seasons for plants, increasing the
amount of pollen and allergens in the air.

"People have said, 'Why aren't there better answers for something that's a huge
problem?'" Haughney says. "It's a good question. One does feel like the research
could be further along."

Honey

"In many cases, what we think is honey is not honey," Haughney says.

Like so much of our food these days, honey is now often produced in a massively
industrialized fashion on a global scale. And that can lead to fraud.

Putting more pressure on the industry is the fact that we're consuming more of
the sweet stuff than ever.

"Not only do we have honey in our tea, we have honey in our bread and cereal and
cookies, because it's considered the safer and cleaner sweetener," Haughney
says. "But at the same time, bee populations are declining and we're not
producing as much honey as before." In some cases, that bottle of honey might be
adulterated with corn syrup.

In other cases, cheap honey of dubious pedigree might be imported from China -
although its country of origin is obscured. The illegal practice led to the 2013
"Honeygate" scandal, in which two US honey processors were charged with federal
crimes for importing misdeclared Chinese product.

The Chinese honey could potentially contain harmful antibiotics that are given
to the bees to prevent colony collapse.

Haughney recommends buying products with labels containing a certification from
True Source Honey, an industry group.

Garlic

Much of the garlic Americans consume used to be grown in California. Now, the
vast majority comes from China. The Asian country produces some 90 percent of
the world's garlic.

China grows so much garlic, so cheaply, that America slaps imports with a tariff
to keep it competitive with homegrown products. But at least one company has
found a way to skirt the tariff, flooding American stores with low-priced bulbs.

"I think it would be fair to say it's less regulated in China," Haughney says.
"The concern is that it could be contaminated." Chinese garlic is reportedly
bleached and could be polluted with heavy metals.

There's another concern, as well. As "Rotten" demonstrates, much of the
pre-peeled fresh garlic that ends up in stores is processed by Chinese
prisoners, which would make its importation illegal under US law.

The job is so grueling that prisoners' fingernails fall off, leading them to
peel the garlic with their teeth.

"I avoid peeled garlic," Haughney says. She also recommends buying locally grown
bulbs, or at least those from California.

Fish

There's arguably no area for dining more problematic than seafood.

And it's not just that your shrimp may have been produced using Southeast Asian
slave labor, as has been widely reported by the Associated Press. The global
nature of the industry means you can no longer be sure that fillet you're
enjoying was pulled from the nearest body of water and had a short trip to your
plate.

"A lot of our squid that's caught off Montauk, for example, is shipped to China,
processed, then shipped back here," Haughney says.

Corruption is also rampant.

One colorful figure profiled in "Rotten" is Carlos Rafael, a New England fishing
mogul known as "The Codfather." He once ran a fleet of dozens of boats and
allegedly committed numerous abuses, including catching forbidden fish and
threatening his rivals. In September, he was sentenced to 46 months in prison.

"His fish ended up at the Fulton Fish Market and in some cases, New York City
restaurants," Haughney says. "You or I have probably eaten his fish." To avoid
conflict, buy seafood from mongers who can provided detailed information about
where it comes from.

Chicken

The average chicken will sell for $7 in the grocery store, but the farmer who
produces it will receive just 36 cents, according to "Rotten." As you might
expect, this reality leads to mass industrialization and doesn't bode well
financially for the average farmer.

"You don't want to become a chicken farmer," Haughney says.

These days, a handful of large corporations controls the majority of chicken
production in the United States and few farmers work independently. Instead, the
corporations own the chickens and the farmers act as contractors, raising the
birds for a few weeks before they're collected and slaughtered.

Big Chicken has also instituted a system of competition among its farmers based
on how fat the birds get and how many survive.

The top producers are paid the highest price, while the bottom are penalized.

The system can force farmers to invest millions in updating their facilities so
they can keep up with the competition.

"A lot of the farmers are living at or below the poverty level," Haughney says.

"You can buy from a more independent farmer instead of supporting one of these
large corporations," she adds. "But those also tend to be very expensive
chickens."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -The new Netflix documentary series "Rotten" explores the seedy side of
popular ingredients. [NY Post photo composite]-Peanuts; honey; garlic; chicken;
fish. [Shutterstock (3); Ileish Anna]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 29, 2018 Monday

Better Living Through Lawsuits

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 293 words


Mayor de Blasio apparently means to spend much of his second term suing for a
better world. Hey: It's a cheap way to boost his national progressive profile,
and who could be against that?

"It's time for Big Pharma to pay for what they've done," Hizzoner huffed last
week, accusing the industry of triggering the opioid crisis by "hooking millions
of Americans in exchange for profit." His lawsuit, he claims, will "save more
lives."

Yes, those darn drug makers make medicine to ease pain - and people actually use
it, even sometimes overuse it. Case closed?

This quickly follows his suit against Big Oil - companies like Exxon and BP that
make fuel to run cars, factories and power plants. All that, the lawyers
charged, caused climate change and triggered Superstorm Sandy.

The city is spending billions to fight global warming and beef up waterfronts.
Big Oil must pay; climate change must end. And don't ask how to keep the lights
on without fossil fuels, or at least a ton of new nuclear plants.

Now, suing works especially well if defendants can be painted as evil and have
deep pockets. Corporations make terrific targets (especially for leftist pols).
Using the word "Big" to describe them also helps.

The model is the settlement with Big Tobacco - and never mind that the cigarette
companies really had suppressed research about their products' baneful impact,
nor that the settlement actually secured the existing players' dominance in the
market.

What's next? De Blasio's "logic" suggests the city could soon also be suing Big
Food for causing obesity, Big Liquor (and Big Auto?) over drunk driving, and Big
Real Estate for the lack of affordable housing.

If only he could find a Big Something to sue for the failings of NYCHA . . .

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 22, 2018 Thursday

This is spring in NYC Four'easter buries Apple & beyond

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen and Natalie Musumeci

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 482 words


Spring may have sprung, but someone forgot to tell Old Man Winter, as the fourth
nor'easter in three weeks hit the Big Apple on Wednesday.

Gov. Cuomo declared a state of emergency for all of New York City and the
surrounding counties as a result of the storm, which brought piles of snow and
packed winds that reached 40 mph.

"As Mother Nature once again tests our great state, we have taken proactive
measures in anticipation of the storm's heavy, wet snow that could impact power
lines and cause dangerous travel conditions," Cuomo said.

The governor activated the State Emergency Operations Center and deployed 300
New York National Guard members to aid areas affected by the storm, and said he
was told utilities were better prepared after widespread power outages from the
previous storms.

"We have had assurances," he said. "Frankly, I'm not satisfied with the
assurances."

Staten Island appeared to be the hit hardest borough, with Port Richmond getting
13.8 inches of snow by 11:55 p.m., according to AccuWeather.

Queens Village had 12 inches snow by 10:48 p.m., Bed-Stuy in Brooklyn was hit
with 11.7 inches by 11 p.m.. Manhattan's Gramercy Park area had 10 inches by
11:15 p.m., and South Woodlawn in The Bronx received 7.6 inches by 8:30 p.m.

The snow was to end by early Thursday.

"If the storm stays on this current trajectory, this current time frame, we will
be in pretty good shape for the morning rush-hour tomorrow," Mayor de Blasio
said.

He was confident the Sanitation Department and its fleet of plows and salt
trucks would be up to the challenge.

"They certainly know how to handle a situation like this," de Blasio said.

Meanwhile, as schools closed and workplaces sent employees home early on
Wednesday, pop superstar Justin Timberlake announced on Twitter that he had
postponed his Wednesday-night show at Madison Square Garden. He vowed to
reschedule.

The storm caused the cancellation of more than 4,000 flights into and out of US
airports, according to the Web site FlightAware.

A winter-storm warning remained in effect until 6 a.m. Thursday, when forecasts
indicated partly sunny skies with a high of about 45 degrees and a low of 29.

De Blasio said that alternate-side-of-the-street parking would be remain
suspended Thursday.

AccuWeather senior meteorologist Dave Samuel said of the spate of recent
nor'easters, "It's a crazy weather pattern. I can't tell you the last time we
have had four of these powerhouse nor'easters in this short a time."

De Blasio, also commenting on the string of nor'easters, told reporters. "If
anyone doesn't think there's climate change, there's some further evidence."

- Thursday Breaking clouds 45 degrees/ 29 degrees

- Friday Partly sunny 48 degrees/ 30 degrees

-Saturday Partly sunny 49 degrees/ 29 degrees

-Sunday Rain/snow showers 47 degrees/ 27 degrees

nmusumeci@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ice day for a walk: Determined sightseers cross the Brooklyn Bridge
Wednesday, as one New Yorker braves the elements on Astor Place (below). [Paul
Martinka; Matthew McDermott]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 29, 2018 Sunday

PostScript Calling Out Junk Science

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 479 words


If you hear about some important finding from a new scientific study, be
skeptical: There's a good chance it's not true.

That's a key point in the National Association of Scholars' new report, "The
Irreproducibility Crisis of Modern Science," by David Randall and Christopher
Welser. And it should raise eyebrows.

"Half the results published in peer-reviewed scientific journals are probably
wrong," write Randall and NAS President Peter Wood in a recent op-ed column,
confirming the claim by Stanford professor John Ioannidis that made headlines in
2005.

Since then, they note, "researchers have confirmed [Ioannidis'] skepticism by
trying - and often failing - to reproduce" the results of "influential"
research. One 2012 study was unable to replicate the findings of fully 47 out of
53 "landmark" reports in hematology and oncology. Scary.

And while the best way to see if a finding is valid is to try to reproduce it,
the scientific community doesn't do that remotely enough.

The NAS paper cites political "threats" to the validity of scientific studies
but focuses more on "the use and abuse of statistics." That is, many findings
can't be reproduced because they're wrong.

Yet shoddy research can become the basis of new medical recommendations, social
or political movements or government laws and regulations.

The biggest flawed "newsmakers" have been in psychology. Wood and Randall cite
studies on "negative stereotypes" and "implicit bias," which have been widely
embraced, especially on the left. Yet researchers have been unable to reproduce
the findings on those subjects. In 2015, they were able to validate only 39
percent of the conclusions in 100 key psychology studies.

Also badly troubled: climate-change science, "a farrago of unreliable
statistics, arbitrary research techniques and politicized groupthink," as
Randall and Wood put it.

The biggest danger, of course, is when bogus findings lead to new laws, policies
or ways of living. That has happened, for example, at the Environmental
Protection Agency, where, says Wood, "opaque and often doubtful claims" are used
as the basis of new regulations.

The EPA, he argues, is known for pushing "scientists to produce the results [it]
wants in order to justify policies it wishes to implement." Good for EPA boss
Scott Pruitt for now seeking to limit studies his agency relies on to only those
that make their data and methodology public - so other researchers can attempt
to reproduce them.

NAS's paper offers several reforms, including more resources for studies that
seek to reproduce findings. It also urges the government to avoid basing new
regulations on studies that don't meet "strict reproducibility standards."

Anyone interested in honesty in research should rally behind the paper's
recommendations. Meanwhile, accept findings of scientific studies at your own
risk.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 12, 2018 Sunday

Water relief for Holy Fire

BYLINE: Dean Balsamini

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 294 words


An overnight aerial assault allowed firefighters to make gains in their battle
to tame the Holy Fire, which has been raging for days in Southern California,
officials said Saturday.

By Saturday morning, the Holy Fire - named for Holy Jim Canyon, where it began
Monday - had grown to nearly 33 square miles, about the size of Manhattan. It
was declared only 10 percent contained. But during the day, firefighters got it
29 percent contained.

High temperatures and dry grass and brush have made it difficult for
firefighters to get a handle on the massive blaze.

Some hillsides were being allowed to burn under the watchful eyes of
firefighters as a way to reduce fuel and make it harder for flames to jump
roadways.

On Saturday, officials allowed some residents to return to their homes in Lake
Elsinore, but others still remained under evacuation orders.

The man accused of deliberately starting the fire appeared in court Friday, but
his arraignment was postponed. Forrest Clark, 51, made several outbursts
claiming his life was being threatened and saying the arson charge against him
was a lie. He's being held in lieu of $1 million bail.

The Holy Fire was one of nearly 20 blazes across California, which is seeing
earlier, longer and more destructive wildfire seasons because of drought, warmer
weather attributed to climate change and home construction deeper into forests.

The largest fire ever in California - the Mendocino Complex Fire - is burning
north of Sacramento and has destroyed 119 homes.

Smoke from California's wildfires has drifted as far as New York City, the
National Weather Service said. The smoke is more than a mile above ground,
indicating there are no health risks, according to a study cited by NASA.

With  Wires

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arson: The Holy Fire burns in Corona, Calif., Friday night - at one
point reaching nearly the size of Manhattan - as the Golden State suffers a
devastating barrage of blazes. [David McNew / EPA-EFE / REX / Shutterstock]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 24, 2018 Monday

Mike: '20 decision after midterms

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 220 words


Former Mayor Mike Bloomberg said he'll decide whether to mount a 2020 challenge
of President Trump after the midterm elections.

"Right now, I'm only focused on the midterms," Bloomberg told CNN's "Fareed
Zakaria GPS" on Sunday. "I believe that the Republicans have not done what they
should have done in terms of providing some counterbalance to the executive
branch."

He added: "And then afterwards, you take a look at it."

Bloomberg is spending an estimated $80 million to help Democrats take back
control of Congress and counter Trump's policies on gun control, climate change
and immigration.

After the November elections, Bloomberg said he'll evaluate how best to spend
his time and fortune.

"And we'd see whether or not it's possible and how I feel, but that's down the
road," Bloomberg said of launching a presidential bid.

"There's lots of possibilities . . . and lots of ways to make a difference."

Bloomberg has previously considered running for president as an independent, but
has stoked speculation he'd run this time as Democrat.

Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski has said the billionaire is the
"only one" who would be competitive with Trump in 2020 because he's a job
creator, has widespread name identification, boundless money and isn't saddled
with Washington baggage.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Bloomberg. [AFP / Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 13, 2018 Saturday

Ally: DeB speech put me to ... ZZZZZZZZZzzzz

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words


That droning sound you hear is the mayor speaking.

One of Mayor de Blasio's closest allies called his speeches "awful" because they
go on for so long that people lose interest, e-mails obtained by The Post
reveal.

Bill Lipton, state director of the lefty Working Families Party, ­e-mailed a
City Hall staffer in late 2016 to deliver the harsh critique after enduring two
sleep-inducing speeches within two months.

"Insane how long bill talked at somos tonight. I love him more than ever but
it's awful," Lipton wrote on Nov. 12, 2016, referring to the annual Somos El
Futuro political conference in Puerto Rico.

"Great stuff but he lost everyone [after] like 10 min and the  overall message
got a little muddled."

Lipton added that it was the "same as at our gala," where de Blasio had spoken
on Sept. 14, 2016.

Perhaps realizing that his comments might not go over well because he was
communicating with one of the mayor's speechwriters at the time, Edward Lewine,
Lipton concluded with, "Just FYI!!"

Lewine wrote back within minutes, "We'll keep working on it."

Lipton later said the observations had been "Offered with love!"

The speeches in question were delivered more than a year after de Blasio blasted
his own speechwriters for providing him with dull material - communications
previously reported by The Post.

"I'm really suffering because of underwhelming texts to work from," the mayor
groused to three top aides on March 10, 2015.

Other e-mails between Lipton and City Hall staffers - largely with
then-intergovernmental aides Emma Wolfe and Michael DeLoach - show a symbiotic
relationship between the administration and the Working Families Party.

The de Blasio administration took many of its policies on combating climate
change straight from the WFP playbook, and relied on the group to "amplify" its
message with supportive quotes and appearances at press conferences.

One of the most urgent asks from the administration came after de Blasio
publicly called for a halt to protests against the killing of unarmed black men
by police - days after two cops were assassinated in Brooklyn in December 2014.

"We really need you to push support for a 'deep breath', time to reflect and
grieve. Mayor acknowledging that we have more reforms . . . but in respect to
the families grieving, we all need to take a time out, come together as a city,"
DeLoach wrote to Lipton on Dec. 22, 2014. "Statement, social media, etc. would
be really helpful. Can we count on you to help?"

Lipton and City Hall declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Insane how long Bill talked tonight. I love him more than ever but
it's awful." - Working Families Party head Bill Lipton critiquing Mayor de
Blasio (right).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 6, 2018 Tuesday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE: and Natalie O'Neill

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 279 words


It's rock 'n' roll's grate-est.

A Swiss cheesemaker is conducting a university-backed experiment to prove that
playing music to cheese makes it more delicious.

Beat Wampfler, of Bern, says exposing the dairy product to sonic waves while it
forms could make it smell and taste better.

On his set list: Led Zeppelin, A Tribe Called Quest and Mozart's "The Magic
Flute."

So much for brand loyalty.

A McDonald's worker in Texas was sent home for being late - so he robbed a
different McDonald's a few miles away, police said.

David Gomez-Beltran, 19, was still wearing his Golden Arches uniform when he
allegedly whipped out a handgun and demanded $1,500 from a manager at the San
Antonio fast-food joint.

Bob Marley's estate isn't feeling mellow about a pro soccer team using his image
without permission.

The Bohemian Football Club in Dublin, Ireland, had to scrap its 2019 away-game
jerseys, which featured the late reggae singer's face, after a rep demanded the
likeness be removed.

The team failed to strike a deal to use the image.

Climate change is a real pest.

Rising temperatures could trigger a rat population explosion in cities such as
New York, Chicago and Boston, scientists say.

A 2-degree spike in global temps by the end of the century would trigger a
breeding boom among the filthy furballs.

A fisherman in New Zealand spotted "a doll" floating in the ocean and grabbed it
- only to learn he'd saved a toddler's life.

Gus Hutt lifted the cold, but still breathing 18-month-old boy from the water
near Matata Beach and rushed to find help.

The toddler had unzipped his sleeping parents' tent and made a beeline for the
beach.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 15, 2018 Monday

Wearing black trend not over

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 560 words


DC talk - that's all they do, just talk - but the latest babble is not about
immigration, climate change or Kim Jong Ugh's hairdresser.

This is about wardrobe! As in what to wear for the State of the Union address.

Congresspersons of this great and glorious most fabulous country God ever
created are thinking to maybe follow the Golden Globes' lead. Our nation's
elected minds are suggesting its ladies sympathize with Earth's true leaders -
Hollywood - and all wear black.

Forget medical insurance, shove marijuana's legality, the USA - now being ruled
by Jessica Chastain and Reese Witherspoon - may change 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. to
the Black House.

Some brains even discussed bringing sex-assault victims as their guests.

More on that subject: We who've experienced this personally all support our
sisters in wearing black for the death of serial sexual harassment. However,
time may have come to remove this from Page 1. For assorted reasons, all
humankind pockets an alphabet of bad memories. Despite an interval of years in
between, everyone understands the emotional rush of getting even.

But replaying this - reliving it in one's head or memory for revenge, anger,
money, publicity, career, righteous reason, whatever - is unhealthy.

In certain cases, its wake has been filled by eager lawyers, unprovable cases
and carcasses of the formerly famous.

The point's been made. Bums have been bounced.

Will it stop totally? Maybe not. But it will calm down. Go underground.

May we all go on with our lives.

Off-topic chatting

LIONSGATE'S "The Commuter" is about a hidden person, a deadly plan and a
criminal conspiracy. At the screening, I eagerly looked to ask about Vera
Farmiga's role in it. Didn't happen. "She's in the bathroom," I was told.

Liam Neeson plays the one contacted by a mysterious stranger on his commute
home. I eagerly looked for him to explain it. Didn't happen. He wanted to talk
about our dogs.

"My Molly's now 16 ¹/ ," he said, clutching a container of tea, "and having
difficulty hearing. She comes fishing with me. I don't take her out much in the
city. She's mostly in the country. Good for her health is the natural substance
glucosamine sulfate, which I stir in her food."

OK. To know more about action-thriller "The Commuter," go see it yourself.

Jane says . . .

MORE. Today victims cry: "The big ape was all over me." While we know Jane
Goodall plays with chimps, who knew they wanted to play back? Goodall, 83,
actually experienced a primate who looked to enjoy a bit of patty-cake.

She says: "One chimp got a little frisky with me in the '60s." It was in
downtown Gombe, Tanzania. Interviewed for her Oscar-maybe doc "Jane," she says,
"I didn't let it go too far." No, she did not hire a lawyer.

Rose knows

MORE. Rose McGowan's new book is "BRAVE." The title's all-caps. Per the
publisher: "She's a writer, director, music artist, former actress,
entrepreneur, whistle-blowing ­badass fearless activist, and unstoppable force
for change . . . determined to expose the truth about the entertainment industry
. . . and shine a light on a multibillion-dollar business built on systemic
misogyny."

Also, she has a new skin-care line coming out.

DEFINITION of a wolf: a fox who sends flowers.

Muttered at a cocktail party in Soho. Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reese Witherspoon (left) and Jessica Chastain: ruling America. [Getty
Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 14, 2018 Wednesday

Lil' birdie told Rex: out! Fired via Twitter; Pompeo gets gig

BYLINE: Mark Moore

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words


President Trump unceremoniously dumped Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on
Tuesday - via Twitter - and nominated CIA Director Mike Pompeo to replace him.

And when Tillerson's State Department spokesman contradicted the White House's
account of events, the spokesman, too, was shown the door.

"Mike Pompeo, Director of the CIA, will become our new Secretary of State. He
will do a fantastic job! Thank you to Rex Tillerson for his service! Gina Haspel
will become the new Director of the CIA, and the first woman so chosen.
Congratulations to all!" Trump tweeted at 8:44 a.m. before leaving for a trip to
California.

"We disagreed on things," Trump later said of Tillerson, who once called him a
"moron" and often clashed with the president on policy.

Trump admitted he didn't consult his top diplomat, who was visiting US allies in
Africa, before firing him.

"I really didn't discuss it very much with him, honestly. I made that decision
by myself. You know, Rex wasn't in this country," Trump said as he prepared to
board Marine One.

Accounts of the shakeup were cloudy, but The Washington Post reported that White
House Chief of Staff John Kelly alerted Tillerson on Saturday that his days were
numbered and urged him to return to Washington from Africa as quickly as
possible.

Tillerson cut short his five-day visit and arrived in DC on Tuesday.

When then-Undersecretary of State Steve Goldstein said the former ExxonMobil CEO
hadn't heard from Trump and "is unaware of the reason" for his ouster, Goldstein
was fired within three hours.

Tillerson later said that Trump called him at about noon Tuesday from Air Force
One.

The president told reporters that while he and Tillerson didn't see eye to eye,
especially over the Iran nuclear deal, he and Pompeo have a "similar thought
process."

"I've worked with Mike Pompeo now for quite some time. Tremendous energy,
tremendous intellect, we're always on the same wavelength," Trump said.

"The relationship has been very good and that's what I need as secretary of
state."

Trump wished Tillerson well and said, "I think he will be a lot happier now."

The president wanted to remove Tillerson so he would have a new team in place as
he prepares for his upcoming talks with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un,
Politico reported.

"I'm really at a point where we're getting very close to having the Cabinet and
other things that I want," Trump said.

Speaking at the State Department later Tuesday, Tillerson said he would stay on
the job until March 31 to ensure a smooth transition.

He praised his colleagues in the State Department, his partners in the US
intelligence community and members of the armed forces - but not Trump.

Tillerson is the latest high-level administration official to leave in the past
two weeks - including economic adviser Gary Cohn, communications director Hope
Hicks and communications aide Josh Raffel.

Tillerson, who took over the State Department in February 2017, butted heads
with Trump over numerous issues, including how to approach North Korea, the
Paris Climate Accord and Russian meddling in the 2016 election.

The tensions were exacerbated last July when Tillerson called Trump a "moron" in
a Pentagon meeting with Cabinet officials and Trump's own security team.

A day before his dismissal, Tillerson broke from the White House's position when
he said the poisoning of a former Russian spy in England earlier this month
"clearly came from Russia" and will "trigger a response."

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday called the attack
"reckless, indiscriminate, and irresponsible" but didn't mention Russia.

With Wires

Rex Tillerson, during his 14-month tenure as secretary of state, often clashed
with President Trump:

PARIS CLIMATE ACCORD - After Trump announced he would pull out of the deal, a
move Tillerson opposed, the diplomat told a Senate panel on June 13, 2017, "My
view didn't change."

MORON - Tillerson reportedly called Trump a "f--king moron" during a July 20,
2017, meeting with Cabinet officials at the Pentagon. Tillerson never denied the
story, saying he wouldn't comment on "petty stuff like that."

NORTH KOREA - As Tillerson pursued a diplomatic solution, Trump tweeted on Oct.
1, 2017, "I told . . . our wonderful Secretary of State that he is wasting his
time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man."

RUSSIA - Tillerson contradicted Trump on Dec. 12, 2017, telling US diplomats
that Russia interfered in the 2016 election - a finding Trump had labeled as
"fake news."

IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL - Tillerson advised Trump to stay in the agreement, which
Trump called "the worst ever." Commenting Tuesday about Tillerson, Trump said,
"I think it's terrible; I guess he thought it was OK."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Out of Africa: Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, in Nigeria Monday
with President Muhammadu Buhari, was still out of the country when President
Trump made the decision to fire him. [EPA]-New York Post "Survivor White House"
front page cover.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 16, 2018 Thursday

Body & Soul - The inside scoop on mating, dating and relating; Cover Story WHAT
POOR SOULS They have millions of dollars in family money, but some trust-funders
say their good fortune actually makes them miserable Mo' money, mo' problems

BYLINE: Hannah Sparks

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1117 words


"I was very irresponsible ... It was just me trying to be a socialite." - Robin
Lee Allen (above), on how he spent all of his multimillion dollar trust and was
nearly homeless

OVER the past six years, Lane Fury has collected more than $185,000 in family
money. Eventually, Fury stands to inherit roughly $6 million, but the
27-year-old doesn't see this good fortune as a positive thing.

"I don't actually want it," says Fury. "There is this sense of shame or
embarrassment, like maybe some of the problems in the world are my fault, so I
shouldn't really be open about [my wealth]."

While many people struggle to pay the bills and make ends meet, those lucky
enough to have family money say they have problems of their own. Fury says
having a trust fund is alienating and can lead to feelings of loneliness, guilt,
depression and confusion.

"The fear is that their money will be a source of disconnection and isolation
from the people who are important to them," says Amanda Clayman, a New
York-based psychotherapist specializing in financial issues. She has seen this
issue come up frequently in her practice, especially among her younger, more
progressive clientele. She notes that many millennials have crushing
student-loan debt and entered the job force during the recession, so those that
have inherited money feel estranged from their less fortunate peers.

"We are turning rich people into villains," Clayman says. "It certainly does not
lead to [a wealthy young person] feeling like one can really be in mixed
company."

Growing up with a lawyer father and nurse-practitioner mother, Fury longed to
talk more about money and class, but "there was not a lot of openness."

Fury expected college would lead to answers, but says that "even within those
spaces learning about gender and racial justice," there was little talk about
class inequality. After graduating and still feeling conflicted, Fury heard
about Resource Generation, a nonprofit that organizes wealthy young people to
pledge their riches to greater-good initiatives.

Since then, Fury has given some $60,000 to loved ones in need, and pledged
nearly $20,000 toward various grass-roots groups this year. Fury's even
convinced family members to form a donor-advised fund at Social Justice Fund
Northwest, with plans to put up $150,000 per year.

"When I think about the possibility of doing some really amazing grass-roots
organizing with that [money], and doing that side by side with my family, that
makes me feel really empowered, powerful and hopeful," says Fury, a loan and
outreach officer for the Cooperative Fund of New England, based in Barre, Vt.

Adam Roberts, who grew up going to the same beach club Ivanka Trump visited in
tony Newport, RI, has also struggled to feel comfortable with his money. His
inheritance, which totals more than $1 million in assets, revealed a side of his
family that made him uncomfortable.

"I remember getting the trust statement when I graduated from college and seeing
that I had ExxonMobil and Chevron stock - at a time when I was learning about
climate change and the ways these large corporations exploit people and the
planet," Roberts, 34, tells The Post. "My first reaction was to disassociate and
compartmentalize."

But that only made him feel more like part of the problem.

"One of the ways wealthy communities [avoid confronting their privilege] is by
staying in these wealthy communities," he says. "The impact of that is a lot of
isolation."

For a time, Roberts wondered if he might even be better off without the money:
"I experienced longing to be less isolated in this experience, and for a world
in which there weren't these huge differences between people."

After Roberts finished graduate school in 2011, he started working primarily in
nonprofits. Teaming with Resource Generation, he has donated more than $250,000
to charities and nonprofit initiatives that focus on racial, economic, gender
and climate justice - "led by people [who have been] most impacted by those
issues," he says.

For Park Slope resident Robin Lee Allen, having money made him feel not only
isolated from his peers, but his own family. His mother died when he was 8, not
long after splitting from his father. He was sent to live with relatives in
Tallahassee, Fla., who weren't as well-off as his family had been and weren't
very welcoming.

"It was just really not pleasant," says Allen, now 34. "I think my awkwardness
got interpreted as snobbery."

He recounts experiences in his childhood that "ranged from emotional abuse [from
family and peers] to long periods of confinement as a child," he says.

At 17, Allen's estranged father died, giving him access to a sum "below $5
million" when he turned 18. He quickly burned through it.

"I was very irresponsible," he says. "A lot of parties, a lot of travel, fancy,
needless s - - t, like getting clothes custom-made. A lot of taxis. It was just
me trying to be a socialite."

In just five years, he found himself in a transitional-housing program in New
York City - essentially homeless.

"The money wasn't infinite," he says.

Eventually, Allen found camaraderie with folks who understood his plight -
namely, an Upper East Side couple who took him in at his lowest, and whom he
affectionately refers to as his godparents.

"I couldn't talk about so many other issues that I was facing with most people,
so it wasn't until I [met them] that I realized there's lots of people [like
me]," he says.

He went to college and is now a managing partner at a private-equity firm in
Midtown. He gives back to a number of philanthropic organizations, including the
Brooklyn Public Library and LGBTQ youth outreach group New Alternatives, which,
he notes, helped him during his transitional period. Earning his own money has
brought him peace.

"Everything I have, I had to build it for myself," he says. "I don't have any
regrets."

Rob, a Brooklyn-based musician and self-employed studio engineer, is struggling
with what having a trust fund - and being a musician - means for his life.

"You hear a lot about the struggle of the artist," says Rob, who was given
roughly $500,000 in stocks and funds and declined to give his last name.

Rob, 31, grew up in South Carolina and was raised to believe he was
middle-class, but learned in his late teens that he had a trust fund that could
finance his college tuition and musical aspirations. Now, he says he feels like
a perpetual impostor, playing the starving artist, when he has thousands of
dollars in the bank.

And, he says, he can't help but wonder: "Would I have been more successful
knowing I didn't have that to fall back on?"

hsparks@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Illustration of an eye crying tears of cash. [Luis Rendon / NY
Post]-Lane Fury stands to inherit $6 million but doesn't really want it, saying
it's shameful and embarrassing. [Annie Wermiel / NY Post]-After losing both his
parents, Robin Lee Allen came into millions when he turned 18 but burned through
it in just five years. [David Butow]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 3, 2018 Saturday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 724 words


Conservative: Left Seeks Trump Defeat, Not Civility

Accused Pittsburgh gunman Robert Bowers "was not a normal man interested in
politics" and incited by Donald Trump's rhetoric, says Daniel McCarthy at
Spectator USA. "He was a murderous man with anti-Semitic views antithetical to
Trump's party and his very family." Similarly for alleged mail bomber Cesar
Sayoc. Liberals know this, says McCarthy, "but they do not care," because now
they have "clubs with which to beat Trump and the Republicans." And they would
do so even if Trump "were tearful and begging for absolution from the people who
hate everything he stands for." Fact is, "no Republican president has even been
spared liberals' wrath because he tried to appease them." Liberals don't think
conservatives should be polite - "they think they should lose."

From the right: Racist Gaffe Shows Dem's True Colors

The Federalist's Margot Cleveland reports that the most notable moment of this
week's final debate in the Indiana Senate race came when embattled Democratic
incumbent Joe Donnelly "put on display his racism of low expectations." In
trying to showcase his staff's diversity, he cited two aides, noting that one is
Indian-American, the other African-American, and added: "But [he/she] does an
amazing job." One "but" could be "excused as a misspeak," but two "exposes "the
underlying mindset of the supposed moderate." It's a perspective "that sees
surprise when racial minorities do an amazing and incredible job." Donnelly then
made things worse by saying his staff "should reflect the face of Indiana" -
essentially "a call to quotas to achieve perfect parity." No wonder he "sees
minorities' success as surprising."

Political scribe: Dems Gave Trump Immigration Opening

Provocative comments from President Trump and other Republicans underscore the
shift in GOP attitudes since George W. Bush's pro-immigration presidency, notes
Bloomberg's Ramesh Ponnuru. But "there has been a major, if lower-profile, shift
on the Democratic side as well." A 2005 Wall Street Journal poll found Democrats
evenly divided on the benefits of immigration; by 2017, they said immigration
strengthens the country by 81 to 16 percent. It's a shift propelled by both
"conviction and strategy," but Democrats "may have moved too far for their own
good," given that "only a minority of Americans wants an increase in immigration
levels." To be sure, Trump's policies "are also out of step with public
opinion." Americans seem to want immigration policy that is "hard-headed without
being hard-hearted."

Law prof: New York's Vendetta Against Exxon Mobil

New York Attorney General Barbara Underwood has filed a new complaint against
Exxon Mobil - one Richard Epstein at Forbes calls "bizarre" and that "should be
brought to a quick end." News coverage of the 91-page action suggested the oil
giant "was up to its old tricks of soft-pedaling the risks of climate change
regulation in order to prop up the value of its stock." But as Epstein notes,
the AG has been forced to "abandon the explosive claim that Exxon Mobil had
concealed from as early as 1977 historical information that it had about the
severe potential of global warming." Instead, Underwood now alleges that Exxon
Mobil internally understated the cost of climate compliance, though she doesn't
point to "any misrepresentation" by the company. Says Epstein: All the evidence
suggests this is a "misguided and unwise use of state power."

Pollster: The Surprising Secret of Trump's Success

President Trump is unquestionably "the most disruptive force in politics today,"
which makes his political survival after nearly two years in office "a
modern-day miracle," asserts Mark Penn at Fox News. But his "most powerful
weapon" is not the insult but "the idea." Whether or not you like them, Trump
has "deployed more specific ideas than anyone in a long time." Fact is, "you
probably know President Trump's positions on almost every issue." Can most
voters say the same about Democratic leaders like Chuck Schumer and Nancy
Pelosi? Other "than investigations and impeachment, what are the Democrats
running on?" Frankly, "given how the presidential election turned out, it's all
the more surprising that the Democrats would again leave themselves open on the
ideas front. Voters want progress, not just partisanship."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Barbara Underwood.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 1, 2018 Saturday

It's a red-faced reindeer tale

BYLINE: and Johnny Oleksinski

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 272 words


The aww-est plot ever can be found in "Elliot: The Littlest Reindeer." A
miniature horse secretly wants to become one of Santa's sleigh-pulling reindeer.

But nestled inside that warm setup is cloying dialogue, condescending voice-over
work and confusing story tangents.

Things start out promisingly.

Elliot (Josh Hutcherson) is a minihorse on a North Dakota farm that somehow has
a direct connection to the North Pole. Tired of low expectations, and wanting
something more from life, the little guy trains to replace the retiring Blitzen.
During tryouts - set in an Olympicstyle arena - Elliot wears fake antlers to
trick the judges. His peppy friend Hazel the Goat (Samantha Bee) helps him with
his plan.

Then the film gets lost in tedious B-plots and a bunch of supporting characters
that are difficult to track. Must an evil Russian businesswoman attempt to buy
all the horses and goats to make them into delicious meat? Must an intrepid
reporter work to uncover elf conspiracies?

Must there be global warming, "Dirty Dancing" and "Braveheart" jokes?

This is a movie for 5-yearolds.

It should've stuck to cuteness.

But even at its sweetest moments, the film resorts to patronizing baby talk.

Every line is delivered like the actor is patting a kid on the head, and each
eyebrow lift and head turn is scored to obnoxious staccato music. The CGI
animation should be banished to a Windows 98 screen saver.

It'll make you want to hoof it straight home.

Running time: 88 minutes.

Rated PG (some suggestive and rude humor). Now playing.

MOVIE REVIEW

ELLIOT: THE LITTLEST REINDEER

½ (One and one-half stars)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Minihorse Elliot (center) wants to join Santa's reindeers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 5, 2018 Monday

buyout bonanza LBO feast expected as Trump alters debt rules

BYLINE: Josh Kosman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 501 words


The next buyout boom may be ready to start.

A President Trump-appointed regulator last week lit the fuse on what some on
Wall Street believe will become an explosion of private equity-fueled
acquisitions - perhaps equaling the buyout bonanza of 2006-07.

There were $1.5 trillion in leveraged buyouts in those two years, according to
Dealogic. Since then no two-year period has come close.

In 2016-17, for example, LBOs slumped 47 percent, to just $809 billion.

Deal insiders believe the next buyout boom will start shortly now that the Trump
administration has rolled back an Obama-era rule that limited debt on LBOs to
six times a company's Ebitda.

Trump's Comptroller of the Currency, Joseph Otting, last week did away with a
rule that some thought wise because it didn't saddle companies with too high a
debt burden.

In the 2006-07 boom, before debt levels were limited, three of the seven largest
LBOs went bust - including radio station giant iHeart Media, which is expected
to file Chapter 11 any day.

Otting's new rule, announced at a conference last week, provides   banks
the"right" to lend at any level if they are not risking their "safety and
soundness."

It's a very significant statement, Kramer Levin Partner Rich Farley, who heads
the law firm's leveraged finance group, told The Post.

"When the chief regulator of national banks says leverage levels won't be
second-guessed after second-guessing and browbeating banks on leverage levels
for five years, that qualifies as a sea change."

For private equity firms, debt is like jet fuel.

PE firms buy companies with little money down - using other's cash to structure
acquisitions like mortgages.

But the PE firms are not saddled with the debt - they have the businesses they
buy take the loans.

If business conditions go south - as they did with iHeart and Caesars
Entertainment - it is the company that is responsible for repayment.

The track record shows that large leveraged buyouts often end in bankruptcies.

In addition to the imminent filing of iHeart (formerly Clear Channel), the
failures of the 2006-07 buyout boom include Energy Future Holdings (formerly
TXU) and Caesars (formerly Harrah's).

During the debt-restricted era, PE giants like KKR and Blackstone Group have
been licking their chops - and building their war chests - but not spending much
of their money.

LBO firms have built up a global war chest of $633 billion in cash as of the end
of 2017, according to Bain & Co. Combined with leverage, LBO firms have roughly
$2 trillion of firepower to put to use.

"During 2017, more than 38,000 companies were bought and sold globally, but PE
accounted for less than 10 percent of those deals," Bain & Co. said in its
report.

During 2006-07, PE represented 20 percent of deals.

PE firms have historically cut costs to improve earnings, according to the Bain
& Co. report, but may have to change their strategies with interest rates rising
and a looming recession.

jkosman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Showtime! President Trump is letting it be known that by working to
loosen debt rules he hopes to touch off a fireworks of American mergers that
could harken to the heyday of 2006-07 when their total value hit $1.5 trillion.
[Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 27, 2018 Sunday

Land of the greed Money, not patriotism, drives NFL's new anthem rule

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 748 words


When will we learn the fact of life? Once we cease to follow the money, we're
off the trail; we've lost the scent.

Despite what we have been told, the NFL owners' ruling last week that
conspicuously protesting the national anthem will result in team and/or player
fines, has no more to do with Donald Trump than it does with Barack Obama,
George Washington or Millard Fillmore. Instead, it has everything to do with
money.

Since the sideline protests began, tens of thousands of NFL fans and customers
have exercised their right to counter-protest. TV ratings and ticket sales are
down. That creates a clear and present economic danger to the NFL.

TV and ticket money is the NFL's mother's milk, or "Monday Night Football"
wouldn't have begat Sunday and Thursday night football, in-season
schedule-flexing and the extortion of additional millions of dollars from
preexisting and newly suckered season-ticket holders through PSLs.

If it weren't about money, games played in outdoor winter climates still would
begin in sunshine. If it weren't about money, the NFL stadium "experience"
wouldn't be dictated by the tender-less mercies of booze-muscled jerks.

Last week's ruling was a chimera, a hollow gesture, a paper tourniquet to try to
ease the bleeding while trying to sustain the arrow on an earnings graph that
the NFL expects to always point up. It was a money ruling, one in which the NFL
was forced to tacitly admit that it no longer can take fans for granted.

It was not a social or patriotic ruling anymore than was the NFL's sotto voce
decision to accept millions from the Department of Defense to conduct on-field,
flag-waving pregame shows. And players' multi-million contracts include a large
piece of all revenue pies, thus there's plenty of selective indignation to go
around.

The NFLPA and its players protesting racist cops (of all colors) was and remains
highly and sadly selective in that they ignore the dozens of daily and nightly
murders of minorities by minorities and the inability of police to solve the
crimes lest those who cooperate risk their own murder and/or the retaliatory
targeting of family members, reminiscent of enforcement codes in Nazi Germany.
Such protesters don't seem to grasp - or prefer to ignore - the skewed logic of
it all.

African-American Newark mayor Ras Baraka has stated that cops aren't the
problem. They can't solve the murders of black children, teens and young adults
because of gang threats of more murder. We'd all take a knee to underscore and
change that, no?

Thus highly public pregame demonstrations rub reasonable, caring folks the wrong
way or halfway as based less in sincerity than in exploiting televised NFL
games.

After all, when the games begin, the needless, illegal and game-changing
brutality perpetrated against fellow social protesters, topped with public
demonstrations of excessive self-regard and taunting - not to mention off-field
hassles and crimes to which cops are summoned - weekly show players throwing
water on their own fires and convictions.

To that end, continued protests would be counter-productive to players' earnings
as well as the good and welfare of the business that enriches them.

Beyond that, the point has been made. Exploitation of the national anthem - a
form of showboating - has grown tired, a faded, feckless fad. Consider that
Colin Kaepernick, national symbol for change, was not even registered to vote.

The NFL last season became frightened by the loss or anticipated loss of TV
rights revenue/ratings, advertising revenue and fat-price-tag ticket money. To
credit or discredit Trump for this ruling is wishful, foolish thinking.

Stay on the money trail. Roger "Good Investments" Goodell is less commissioner
than CFO, and newer NFL owners didn't spend billions to see their teams' value
descend.

Last year, Chargers offensive lineman Russell Okung called on NFL players to
continue to protest, declaring, "We are the lifeblood of the league."

No, they're not. Money is, specifically what the NFL and its players generate
from the outside. And without active fans to pay the freight, there's no blood
in the veins. Okung, after all, doesn't pay; he's paid - $53 million over four
years.

On the other hand, if the money was right, the NFL would sign a deal to have the
pregame sideline protesters commercially sponsored, team owners would demand
fines and suspensions of those who don't take a knee.

phil.mushnick@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kneeling NFL players. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 22, 2018 Friday

Mayor Headline-Hunter

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 405 words


Mayor de Blasio's performance Thursday is just a taste of what to expect for his
remaining three-plus years in office: an all-out effort to win national
headlines to boost his progressive reputation - New York City's needs be damned.

That's why he turned his back on hundreds of migrant children being held in
facilities here and flew off to Texas to stage a ridiculous publicity stunt.

De Blasio was one of 20 mayors who descended on the migrant children's facility
in Tornillo, Texas, and demanded admittance. They were turned away - as de
Blasio said beforehand he fully expected.

As an actual fact-finding expedition, it was useless. But it let him posture for
the cameras, sanctimoniously denouncing the feds for trying "to keep people out
who are trying to get the truth." (Now he knows how the City Hall press corps
feels.)

His purpose in flying 2,000 miles? "To jolt the situation," de Blasio replied -
as if anyone by this time is unaware of what's been happening at the border.

As for the kids back in New York being cared for by social-service agencies, the
mayor claimed he was "waiting for answers." Yet he was more likely to get them
if he'd stayed home.

No, it's all about the hits on MSNBC, CNN, etc. - and attention from NPR, The
Nation and Rolling Stone.

In his first term, he was constrained by the need to win re-election. Now his
eyes are purely on the future - his future. How is he to earn a living after
Jan. 1, 2022, unless big lefty donors are willing to fund him?

That means not just more jaunts like Thursday's, but an agenda for the city
that's purely about national publicity for him.

Which explains his sudden push to change admission standards for the city's
elite high schools in the name of racial "inclusion" - without laying the least
political groundwork even with Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, a vital ally if he
meant to actually do it.

Expect even his charter-reform commission to focus on ideas that will win
national progressive headlines, like "pure" public campaign finance. (No wonder
the City Council is setting up its own commission.)

This also explains why Team de Blasio simply went along with the rampant fraud
at NYCHA until it got caught: Public housing is no longer a national progressive
priority - far better to focus on climate change.

Face it, New York: This mayor is done paying attention to your problems. All
that matters now are his needs.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 26, 2018 Wednesday

Eating Right - The latest dish on healthy foods and delicious living; Cover
Story Slim in an instant Mother of three Brittany Williams struggled with her
weight for years - until the right kitchen gadget came along Happier meals

BYLINE: LAUREN STEUSSY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1285 words


FOR Brittany Williams, weight loss happened in an "instant."

The 28-year-old mother of three has shed 125 pounds with the help of an Instant
Pot, a popular multicooker celebrated for its ability to pressure-cook food at
warp speed.

The Yucca Valley, Calif., resident tells The Post that she "blamed [a lack of]
time" for her poor food choices. The Instant Pot, she says, "completely
simplified my life." In her "Instant Loss Cookbook" (Harmony, out Tuesday), she
outlines how the appliance's fast-cooking features helped her whip up
convenient, healthy meals on the fly - and kick a lifelong fast-food habit. Her
quickie recipes, which span everything from quinoa bowls to dairy-free fudge
pops, are "faster than waiting for the pizza delivery man," she says.

Before she plugged in the pot, meals meant milkshakes and cheeseburgers for
Williams, who grew up in California and Texas in a family of nine. Her dad was
on disability, she tells The Post, and her busy working mom relied on frozen
meals and McDonald's to feed the family.

"I was never exposed to fruits and veggies as a kid," she says, "and I didn't
have anyone modeling cooking at home - that was just completely foreign to me."

By the time she was 20 and married, in 2011, she was 211 pounds. Shortly after
her wedding, she had her first baby, and hit 260 pounds. After the birth of her
second child, she tried to eat healthier, "but that just meant instead of eating
McDonald's every day, I would just eat it twice a week," she says.

A series of personal crises ultimately led her to make serious lifestyle
changes. When she got pregnant a third time, at age 25, she had a stillbirth at
39 weeks. She had two additional miscarriages within the same year.

"It launched me into this low point in my life," she says. "It was a reflection
of what was going on in my body. It hadn't been fueled properly my entire life."

The final straw came that same year, in 2016, when Williams was 26 and her
eldest daughter, then 4, developed rheumatoid arthritis. Part of treating her
daughter involved putting her on a strict diet, with no red meat, dairy, grains
or processed foods. It also meant moving to a desert climate in California. The
drastic changes made her realize that to care for her family, she would first
need to care for herself, she says.

"It occurred to me that I was doing all these things to care for my children,
but I didn't love myself enough to do these kinds of things for me," she says.

After what felt like "hundreds" of fad diets, including keto and Whole30,
Williams began to notice some patterns. She felt best when she stuck to whole,
unprocessed foods and when she avoided gluten. So in January 2017, she resolved
to cook whole-food-based, gluten-free dinners at home for an entire year. That's
when she busted out the Instant Pot, which had been collecting dust since her
husband, an electrical engineer and gadget lover, picked it up a couple years
prior.

Williams filled her fridge with vegetables and stocked her freezer with lean
proteins, including chicken and turkey. When she felt hungry, she cooked
something quickly in her Instant Pot instead of grabbing takeout. After three
months, Williams, who is 5-foot-3, had lost 46 pounds.

Thrilled, Williams shared the news with the Instant Pot Facebook community - and
her inbox quickly flooded with questions about her diet. "I was receiving so
many messages," she says. So she started her own Facebook page, Instant Loss, to
share recipes, and then created a Web site to catalog them. It received 52,000
views on its first day, she says.

Besides the weight-loss perks and the new fame, Williams' Instant Pot cooking
regimen was forcing her to feed her kids more healthily too. She says she
couldn't claim, "Well, we had football practice or karate lessons tonight, so
let's just order pizza" when she knew she could have an Instant Pot chicken
chili on the table in less than 20 minutes.

As Williams' online following grew, she started selling one-week meal plans on
her site for $3.99 - "mini cookbooks" to help people get into the multicooker
spirit. The plans, which involve throwing tons of vegetables and lean meats into
the pot and limiting the use of dairy and carbs, have been game-changers for
followers of Instant Loss.

One, Becky O'Connor, tells The Post she's a longtime fan of Williams'. In
August, she started following the Instant Loss meal plans; she's lost 8 pounds
so far. Besides the easy-to-follow recipes, O'Connor appreciates Williams'
openness about the struggles of weight loss - especially that she posts photos
of her stretch marks and "before" body.

"She's raw and real, and really shows you what it's like to lose weight and how
it affects your body," says the 27-year-old Edinburg, Ill., banker, who's
partial to Williams' shredded-chicken tacos and chicken tortilla soup.

While most of Williams' cookbook focuses on recipes that can be made in the
Instant Pot, even she admits that there are some things the cooker can't do.
She's a fan of the old-school oven for some recipes, such as her breakfast
muffins or, for a nostalgic classic, fresh fish sticks.

Still, she thanks the device for her transformation - especially for how it's
allowed her to keep up with her family.

"When I was overweight and my family wanted to go on walks or go to amusement
parks, there was no way I could go. I felt left out a lot because I didn't feel
capable," says Williams, who now weighs 135 pounds. "Now, we're a really active
family."

And she's teaching her kids how to cook. They even know a few of her recipes by
heart.

"I never thought that posting that little piece of encouragement on Facebook
would turn into all this," she says. "But when you have all the tools, all the
knowledge, you just need to apply it. I'm living proof."

Make it at home!

5-Minute Poblano Chicken Chili

Brittany Williams says she leaned heavily on this chicken chili recipe during
her weight-loss journey. Today, it's one of her weeknight go-tos. "It's very
filling, my whole family loves it and, just like everything else, it's so fast
to make," she tells The Post.

½ tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil

1 tsp. ground cumin

1 tsp. dried, minced onion

1 tsp. sea salt

½ tsp. garlic powder

¼ tsp. cayenne

¼ tsp. black pepper

1 medium onion, diced

2 poblano chilies, ribbed and seeded

1 jalapeño, diced (ribs and seeds removed if you don't like too much heat)

One 8-oz. boneless, skinless chicken breast, cubed

Two 15-oz. cans great northern beans, rinsed and drained

1 ½ cups chicken broth

½ cup chopped fresh cilantro

Lemon or lime wedges

1 avocado, diced

1. Heat your Instant Pot using the "Saute" function. When the display panel
reads "Hot," add the oil, spices, onion, chilies, jalapeño and chicken. Saute
until the chicken begins to turn white and the onion becomes translucent, about
5 minutes.

2. Add the beans and broth.

3. Place the lid on the cooker and make sure the pressure knob is set to the
"Sealing" position. Using the display panel, select the "Manual/Pressure Cook"
function, choose the high-pressure setting and set the display to 5 minutes
using the plus and minus buttons.

4. When the cooker beeps to let you know it's finished, quick-release the
pressure by switching the pressure knob from the "Sealing" to the "Venting"
position. Be careful with the hot steam.

5. When the steam is done venting, open the cooker and stir in the cilantro.
Squeeze in lemon or lime juice to taste, and top with the avocado.

Serves 4 to 6

- Adapted from "Instant Loss Cookbook," by Brittany Williams. Published 2018 by
Harmony Books, an imprint of Penguin Random House

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Cookbook author Brittany Williams, 28, lost 125 pounds making meals in
her Instant Pot. [John Chapple]-Before / After: Williams weighed 260 pounds when
a series of health scares inspired her to shed weight. In 2017, she decided to
try cooking dinner at home every night and broke out her Instant Pot. Today, she
weighs 135 pounds.-Becky O'Connor has lost 8 pounds in one month following
Williams' Instant Loss diet plan.-5-Minute Poblano Chicken Chili. [Helene
Dujardin]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 5, 2018 Wednesday

NOVEL CONCEPT Mets offer holiday gift to New York: A team actually trying to win
games

BYLINE: Mike Vaccaro

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 753 words


Before the press conference began, there was a twist: a neatly packaged
highlight video showing Robinson Cano treating baseballs very badly, showing
Edwin Diaz's wipeout slider treating hitters very badly. It is hard to remember
another press conference starting this way and it raised three immediate
observations, in no particular order:

1. It was like watching a trailer for "A Star is Born" immediately before
watching "A Star is Born." Gaga and Cooper - in this case Cano and Diaz - were
sitting on the dais. We'd already decided to come.

2. Apparently Cano has only played for the Mariners in his career? Can someone
check on this for me?

3. The Mets GM, in case you'd forgotten, was an agent in his past professional
lifetime.

And as we saw the last time we'd all gathered at the behest of Brodie Van
Wagenen, he is a good salesman. He is, in fact, a born salesman, proficient
enough that he realizes selling skeptical Mets fans on this trade is nothing
compared to selling the Wilpons on what he wants the Mets to be.

"We don't want this team to be built on 'ifs.' 'If player X stays healthy or if
player Y has a breakout year,' " Van Wagenen said later. "We're not in the mode
to finish fourth in our division."

And look: This trade might still turn out to be a fiasco. In the months and
years to come, this may be proven to be just another moment when the Mets cared
more about winning a press conference than winning the NL East. And as Van
Wagenen himself confirmed, this isn't - can't be - the last time we'll all get
together at Citi Field before the home opener against the Nationals on April 4.

But in a time when every team in every sport seems to be talking about some
future year, some distant time, 2021 or 2022, when rebuilding and "strategic
losing" are words you actually hear in regular sporting conversation, this is
actually a refreshing way for a general manager to talk and to behave. At his
introductory press conference, Van Wagenen insisted the Mets will conduct
business like contemporary contenders.

Tuesday he merely reinforced that credo. Good for him.

"We have a winning mindset," he said. "And collectively we believe that anything
is possible."

That mindset will be tested in a division that features one defending champion
that is only going to get better (Atlanta), the perennial favorite that will
remain that way even if it loses its franchise cornerstone (Washington) and a
third that is on record being willing to spend "stupid money" in order to reach
first place (Philadelphia). This isn't the soft-soap division that, for years,
required worrying about only the Nationals. This is varsity ball.

It is plain that Van Wagenen has already sold his bosses on what it means to
want to compete in such an environment. Jeff Wilpon, who was tracking gorillas
in Rwanda while his GM was on his own baseball safari, talked about his
analytics people saying they were an 83- or 84-win team before the deal, they're
more like an 88- or 90-win team now.

"And we need to get to 90-plus and beyond," Wilpon said.

Around New York, where everyone but the Yankees is already living in the next
decade, this was a refreshing change of pace. Around the Mets, who have spent
most of the past 10 years in their own unique brand of half-measure purgatory,
it was especially jarring to hear.

Van Wagenen's revolution isn't quite what Omar Minaya was able to pull off in
his opening weeks in charge 14 years ago, when he signed Pedro Martinez as a
prelude to signing Carlos Beltran and primed the Mets' engine for four straight
years of playoff contention, but then Minaya was working in a different climate
in those days, before anyone had ever heard the name "Madoff."

The postmodern Mets haven't had a stretch quite like this one. There are no
guarantees November promise becomes September production because there never
are. It just seems more like the way a big-boy baseball team is supposed to
operate.

"It goes without saying we did not make this move to be our last move," Van
Wagenen said, and that should be music to Mets' fans ears, especially since he
also hinted it was likely they'd be holding on to Noah Syndergaard. Why? Because
a win-now team needs Syndergaard throwing gas every fifth day for it. An
ambitious team safeguards its talent, it doesn't jettison it.

The results may not match that ambition in Flushing come next autumn. But the
Mets are back in the arena for a change. And that's really the only place to be.

mvaccaro@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GIFTS FROM SANTA: New Mets Edwin Diaz and Robinson Cano stand with
Brandon Nimmo (as Santa Claus) and Corey Oswalt, in addition to Mr. Met, at a
holiday party for local school children at Citi Field on Tuesday. [N.Y. Post:
Charles Wenzelberg]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 29, 2018 Tuesday

'Club' has sexy characters

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 601 words


Paramount Pictures' new movie is "Book Club." What's paramount in it is sex.
Everyone's either Doing It, remembering It, recovering from It or itching for
It.

Andy Garcia didn't want to explain his character "because that would give the
surprise away," but he didn't mind explaining the other characters.

"Candice Bergen's surfing for It online, Jane Fonda's rekindling an old flame,
Mary Steenburgen's playing a married lady, widowed Diane Keaton meets me on a
plane, and we stumble into a relationship.

"I knew some of them from before. I'd briefly met Jane and Candice, and I did
'Godfather 3' with Diane."

This film's about books, so what's his favorite one?

" 'The Old Man and the Sea.' I've reread it several times. The story's
compelling. I find it transports me."

But in this movie's book club, it's ladies who only talk sex.

"Listen, this book club's reading 'Fifty Shades of Grey.' I saw the film with a
regular audience - not just women. Men found it funny, charming, romantic.
People identify with romance. Women today are having sex at an advanced age.
Others give it up but still want it."

This is old broads and the he. It sure ain't "Old Man and the Sea."

Golfing for cash to open casino

MARK Wahlberg - who produced "Boardwalk Empire," which was set in Atlantic City,
NJ - was himself in AC. His new investment's Ocean Resort Casino and its HQ
nightclub there, which opens June 28. Mark wanted to play golf. Impending rain
had closed the local course, Galloway. He said he'd risk getting wet if they'd
open it for him. They did. He finished 18 holes, hit two under par and won 20
bucks. Good. Should help. Because the new resort supposedly cost a couple of
billion.

Odds & ends

Many wonderful things in the city. At 2018's Fulbright Awards Dinner, they
honored Ambassador Edward Elson for his international efforts promoting global
peace   and at the 2nd Ave Deli, it was fans leaving their matzo balls to snap
pictures of Judge Judy   A Philip Roth quote I'll always remember: "Of all the
novelists, Kafka was the one most truly original."

Bits & pieces

JIMMY Fallon, Noel Ashman, Joe Torre, Jorge Posada, Mariano Rivera at Sony Hall
to mark the 20th anniversary of Yankee David Wells' perfect game. Wells and
Fallon both bid for an autographed "SNL" cap, which sold for $12,000 . . . A
friend attended a Hollywood party. A bowl of candy was on a table. She helped
herself. Then needed help herself. The candy was laced with marijuana. They play
nice out there.

Please try to pay attention

IN light of Britain's happy newlyweds: Jada Pinkett Smith reportedly once said:
"I got pregnant, and Will Smith did the right thing. He said, 'Would you marry
me?' We were in his bedroom" . . . NOW divorced Robin Wright: "Sean Penn and I,
dating, had split up like 12 times, and finally I'm the one who proposed. I
said, 'Want to get married?' He, who lived in a trailer park, just said, 'Yeah.'
"

Georgia tries

SAVANNAH's looking to be New York lite. Stuffed with moviemakers like Travolta
filming. Up to its collard greens in construction, locals hate losing historic
status due to new second-rate hotels zapping the old-time charm . . . DIRECTOR
Phylicia Rashad's "Our Lady of 121st Street" at the Signature Theatre drew Ethan
Hawke, Billy Crudup, Mark Ruffalo, Kenneth Lonergan. Also Maggie Gyllenhaal,
Sienna Miller, Greta Gerwig.

RELAXED after Memorial Day, Dr. Ruth offered this warm moon-June-croon
information: "Guys, make your partner feel special. After making love, never
yell out, 'Next!' "

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jane Fonda: Rekindles an old flame in "Book Club." [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           August 15, 2018 Wednesday

NY'S MESSIEST FOOD FIGHTS The buzziest new bars and restaurants are built on
unsavory rivalries

BYLINE: and Steve Cuozzo, Lauren Steussy

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1792 words


THERE are tens of thousands of restaurants and bars in New York City and its
surrounding areas, but not all of them get along peacefully. Business
partnerships go bad, real estate is at a premium, family relationships sour and
the competition for customers is fierce. Behind some of the most-talked-about
new restaurants and bars are bitter rivalries. Have a look.

The Four Seasons vs. The Grill

A struggle for power players

The suspense is over - the Four Seasons finally reopened Wednesday after a
two-year construction saga. The most fabled restaurant in NYC history is reborn
- shrunken but beautiful - three blocks south of the Seagram Building that was
its home for nearly 60 years.

The landmarked Seagram spaces are now home to archrival Major Food Group's the
Grill and the Pool. As of Tuesday, the Four Seasons' menu still wasn't
available. But the battle for glory, and customers, between the culinary
combatants is already on.

Four Seasons owners Julian Niccolini and Alex von Bidder claim to have a waiting
list of old-timers clamoring for reservations. A Grill and Pool insider said,
"We don't see the walls closing in but we do expect a dip [in business] for the
first few weeks." Since Seagram landlord Aby Rosen booted the Four Seasons when
its lease was up in July 2016 and replaced it with Major Food, there's been no
love between the restaurateurs. Not even a kind word. A Major Food rep said this
week that its partners and Rosen were all "unfortunately unable to be reached
for comment" on the Four Seasons revival.

For decades, the Four Seasons was the town's most storied place to eat. Launched
in 1959, it introduced the "power lunch." Many longtime customers are panting to
return. Martha Stewart tells The Post she "can't wait." Once, during the long
closure, Henry Kissinger - a devotee of the old house's $40 baked potato -
called Niccolini and von Bidder over to his limo, which was stopped on Park
Avenue.

"So when are you going to open your place?" von Bidder recalls Kissinger
growling. Preview meals over the past week drew fashion designer Joseph Abboud,
philanthropist Charles Bronfman, famed residential broker Dolly Lenz and
practically every big commercial real-estate dealmaker in town.

Some are so loyal to Niccolini and von Bidder that they never set foot in the
Grill or the Pool after they opened them. (Neither did the partners:

"They're in the past," von Bidder says.) "Julian was a maestro who moves around
patrons and tables like Nelson Riddle arranging notes," says Whitney Global
Media president William O'Shaughnessy. "Unlike at new places full of humorless
foodies, they're selling a venue where fun exists." Maria von Nicolai, another
Four Seasons fan and the institutional relations manager for Illy Cafe, says she
tried the Grill "once out of curiosity.

It was so alien, as if you went home and found that somebody else had moved in."
At the new Four Seasons, "There's Julian and Alex smiling with the same warm
greeting," von Nicolai says.

But while fans waited for the reopening, the Grill and the Pool developed their
own bigspending, mostly younger audience. Power publicist Lizzie Grubman says,
"[Partner Jeff Zalaznick] and his wife were both born in New York City. They're
friends with everyone. Jeff has made his rooms the new hot spot." Some Grill and
Pool devotees seem willing to give the new Four Seasons a try. Socialite Dori
Cooperman, ready to hit the circuit after recently giving birth to a baby boy at
age 46, says, "I'm loyal to the Grill for dinner, but I'll absolutely try the
Seasons. I'll go anywhere good." But she notes that the Grill clientele is "much
younger" than the old Four Seasons crowd - a mature old guard that included
octogenarians, such as former Simon & Schuster editor Michael Korda, Edgar
Bronfman Jr. and Leonard A. Lauder.

Von Bidder and Niccolini have tapped a p.r. firm to promote the Four Seasons on
social media. But it won't likely draw penny-pinching millennials any more than
the Grill or Pool does. Appetizers will run from $25 to $65 and main courses
from $44 to $75 - in the same rough ballpark as the Grill and Pool.

Talented young executive chef Diego Garcia, 30, worked at Le Bernardin and ran
his own show at West 50s seafood bistro Gloria. He plans to update house
classics, such as tableside steak tartare, Maryland crabcakes and farmhouse
duck, and add seasonal ones, such as butter-poached lobster.

The new Four Seasons has a mere 100 dining-room seats versus 240 previously at
Seagram. But Brazilian architect Isay Weinfeld's design is gorgeous with a
sunken square bar flecked with gold leaf and steel fabric window shades that
gently evoke the Seagram rooms' famed aluminum curtains.

It's been a long road for von Bidder and Niccolini, who squabbled publicly for
years with Rosen at the Seagram Building. Then came Niccolini's third-degree
misdemeanor-assault guilty plea in 2016 after he was accused of sexual assault
by a female customer. The arrest came more than two decades after a waitress
sued him for sexual harassment.

But for Four Seasons loyals that seems to be in the past.

They're happy to just have their old clubhouse back.

Real estate lawyer Jonathan Mechanic has an office in the Seagram Building and
knew the old Four Seasons well. He's thrilled by the new version. He says: "Alex
and Julian did an amazing job re-creating a venue that's both familiar and new."

- Steve Cuozzo

Mikkeller Brewing vs. Evil Twin Brewing

Something's brewing in Queens

A sibling rivalry that's been brewing for years is about to reach a boiling
point - now that two brothers are battling for the same borough.

The 42-year-old Danish twins Mikkel Borg Bjergsø and Jeppe Jarnit-Bjergsø both
brew eccentric beers with fashionable labeling and an aficionado following. But
that's where the similarities end.

In 2006, Mikkel started up his first brewing company, Mikkeller, which now sells
in its own branded bars around the world. In 2010, Jeppe founded his own
"nomadic" brewing company - with no physical brewery tying him down - with a
title that would signal the tumult to come: Evil Twin Brewing.

By 2010, the two weren't speaking, their relationship soured by differing tastes
and lavish insults.

"He is so desperate to 'beat' me, he will do whatever it takes," Jeppe tells The
Post.

Now, the brothers are about to go head-to-head in Queens. Jeppe - who sells his
beer from Tørst, the restaurant he co-owns in Greenpoint, and local bottle shops
- is putting the final touches on his first brewery, in Ridgewood. It's expected
to open in the next two to three months.

This past March, Mikkel opened a Mikkeller - which has 39 locations across
Europe, Asia and California - at Citi Field.

As a result, Jeppe says, things with Mikkel have "never been worse." He also
claims that, the name aside, Mikkel doesn't even own his Queens brewery.

"I own 100 percent of my company," Jeppe says. "Mikkeller has sold out." Mikkel
says he doesn't like to comment on his relationship with his brother.
Nevertheless, he takes issue with Jeppe's latest claim: "Everything Jeppe says
is made up by himself, and he has no proof of anything he says about me and
Mikkeller." Mikkel adds that while ownership contracts are confidential, he's
very much involved in Mikkeller's operations, "from doing recipes to arranging
collabs and taking part in the bigger decisions." The latest includes a
collaboration with Pennsylvania's Tired Hands Brewing Co.

and North Carolina's Casita Cerveceria on Skyfood, a double IPA that's brewed
with ginger, Sichuan peppercorns, young coconut, aloe, durian, orange zest,
honey, jasmine flowers and lychee.

In what could be the understatement of the century, Jeppe sums it up this way:
"In general, we just grew apart."

- Lauren Steussy

Tutto il Giorno vs. Dopo la Spiaggia

Rigatoni rivals

Mamma mia! Hamptonites are buzzing about two rival Italian restaurants.

In July, Gabby Karan de Felice (daughter of Donna Karan) opened an outpost of
her Tutto il Giorno in Sag Harbor, just down the street from its original
location and now Dopo la Spiaggia, a popular eatery run by Karan's former
business partners, Maurizio Marfoglia and Larry and Maria Baum.

"They are both hot, so it's a constant debate,'' says Xavier Merat, who owns Sag
Harbor's chic Salon Xavier and says his clients are always gabbing about which
restaurant to go to.

Marfoglia is vocal in his disapproval of Karan de Felice moving into his
territory. After they parted ways in 2016, she signed a two-year non-compete
agreement, but was quick to make a move once it expired.

"All we need is another Italian restaurant in town," Marfoglia tells The Post.
"I think [the agreement] ran out in December, and in January they were popping
Champagne and toasting the new space.'' Larry Baum says seeing many of the same
dishes, such as spicy tuna tartare and burrata with organic tomatoes and fresh
basil, was a shock. "Not only did they open 275 steps away, but they used a lot
of Maurizio's menu,'' says Baum.

Don Evans, producer of the food events Taste of Two Forks, GrillHampton and
MonTaco, says he experienced a bit of déjà vu visiting the restaurants.

"I ate at Dopo one night and Tutto the next and had exactly the same rigatoni
preparation," he says.

"It was a little surreal." Karan de Felice says that many Italian spots have
similar dishes.

"These are staples that we all love; we are not reinventing the wheel,'' she
says. "My husband grew up in Southern Italy, and these are his mother's
recipes." Some locals are vocal about which spot they prefer.

"My friends and I are loyal to Dopo because we'd rather feel like we are sitting
at a cafe by the water in Capri than on busy Main Street in Sag Harbor," says
Compass real-estate agent Diane Shifman.

Others are happy to remain neutral.

"Both have great food," raves veteran publicist R. Couri Hay.

"My circle of friends used to go to Dopo all the time, but now we divide our
time between Dopo and Tutto,'' says Andrea Warshaw-Wernick, who lives on the
Upper East Side and has a home in Wainscott. "We went to Tutto Thursday and
loved that the place is so elegant and the crowd is so glamorous, but Friday we
were at Dopo and everyone at my table was blown out of the water by the food.''
Neither establishment is suffering for business at the moment.

"You need to have a connection to get a table at either place right now," says
Park Avenue cosmetic dermatologist Howard Sobel.

Baum is philosophical about how it might all play out.

"I have done a massive amount of personal reflection, and I believe in karma,"
he says. "I am thankful to them for pushing us to be better."

- Beth Landman

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Alex von Bidder (near right) and Julian Niccolini have reopened the
Four Seasons in a stunning new space with luxe dishes such as roasted farmhouse
duck (above). [Stefano Giovannini (3)]-The bar at the new Four Seasons (far
left) bears a resemblance to the original, which is now the Grill restaurant.
[Zandy Mangold; Brian Zak / NY Post]-Mikkel Borg Bjergsø owns Mikkeller Brewing.
[Stefano Giovannini]-Mikkel's estranged brother, Jeppe Jarnit-Bjergsø, is
opening Evil Twin Brewing. [Signe Birck]-Gabby Karan de Felice's Tutto Il Giorno
serves classics like fettuccine bolognese. [Eric Striffler]-Maurizio Marfoglia
serves similar pasta dishes at Dopo la Spiaggia. [Angel Chevrestt (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 24, 2018 Wednesday

'Boy,' she sure is maternal

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 597 words


Nicole Kidman. In "Boy Erased," based on a true story, she plays a mother.

This son's sent to something called a conversion-therapy camp where, goes the
theory, a stay leads him to overcome tendencies of homosexuality.

It's an Australian movie. Director's Australian. Nicole's Australian. Playing
the father is Russell Crowe - a New Zealand citizen who's more Australian than a
koala - and in this, he plays an Arkansas Baptist minister.

These parents learn their son's gay. Not good. This type of guy with a father
who's an Arkansas Baptist minister - not so good.

Nicole, who has four kids: "Certain films you do because there's a reason for
them. A purpose. I wanted to play this person who says, 'I will not let my
family fall apart.' I love that. I've had my own mother do that.

"I like playing mothers. My maternal force is probably my strongest energy in
the world. It's my life. Where I resonate right now. Sometimes you don't always
like meeting the real people you portray because the last thing you want is to
take on their mannerisms and start mimicking them.

"But that changed when I met this real-life mom on set. She stroked my face and
hand and was very warm and affectionate. And then I wanted her there all the
time. I love being mothered."

Her son is played by Lucas Hedges. He was in 2016's "Manchester by the Sea" and
last year's "Lady Bird." He is in this year's "Ben Is Back." He's currently on
Broadway in "The Waverly Gallery." He's busy.

"The minute I met him we had this connection. We obviously look a little bit
alike, but he also has a disarming sense of humor."

So Kidman's played everybody. So she ever hope to play herself?

"Not interested. The idea of getting pigeonholed is terrifying."

Hey, it ain't easy being seen.

We pay attention to politics

America has become more and more diverse. We're now a plaid. All colors,
religions, beliefs woven together. Each pulling his or her own way.

And the big attention grab? Politics. Sean Hannity's sit-down with Rush Limbaugh
nailed 4 million viewers. Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke running against Ted Cruz?
That BSathon got 1 million eyeballs.

The lure is global. Poland sends word they'd never seen a US envoy on TV there.
Newly arrived New Yorker Georgette Mosbacher has already dominated its
television three times. They've reported this ambassador's wardrobe: jacket,
earrings, everything matchy matchy. The whole country is impressed.

From a babe's mouth

Diana DeGarmo, runner-up on the third season of "American Idol," says lots of
stuff.

At Tuscany Steakhouse about Simon Cowell: "We had a love/hate relationship. He's
mellowed since he had a kid."

About her "The Witches Rumble" show at Laurie Beechman Theatre: "I'm a drag
queen in training."

Film prep

Gotham Awards: Nov. 26. Best actress nominees: Glenn Close in "The Wife,"
Michelle Pfeiffer in "Where Is Kyra?," Toni Collette in "Hereditary," Kathryn
Hahn in "Private Life," Regina Hall in "Support the Girls."

Best actor noms: Adam Driver in "BlacKkKlansman," Ethan Hawke in "First
Reformed," Richard E. Grant in "Can You Ever Forgive Me?," Ben Foster in "Leave
No Trace," Lakeith Stanfield in "Sorry To Bother You." Just thought you might
want to know whom to watch.

No confirmation yet - can't even swear to this on a stack of Justice Kavanaugh
denials - but - at NYC's coming big sports event Sunday, MetLife Stadium, NY
Giants versus Washington Redskins, it's possible Hillary Clinton may attend. The
word is she will throw out the first Republican.

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicole Kidman: Not playing herself. [Sara De Boer / startraksphoto]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 2, 2018 Friday

KING-SIZE Here's what goes into getting the great ape from the 1933 film onto
Broadway to star in a musical

BYLINE: and BARBARA HOFFMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 576 words


HE can't dance, can't sing or even talk, yet he's the biggest star of the
season's musicals.

Meet King Kong, the 2,000-pound gorilla of Broadway. The Great White Way has
never seen anything quite like the animatronic puppet who rules "King Kong,"
opening Nov. 8.

As far as his leading lady is concerned, her biggest challenge isn't holding
onto that 20-foot-tall creature's back as he runs amok onstage (there's a
harness for that). No, Christiani Pitts tells The Post:

The toughest thing is "describing his epicness to people who haven't seen the
show!" All told, it takes a village to get Kong moving: 10 onstage puppeteers
and another three in a soundproof booth at the back of the Broadway Theatre
balcony. And move he does. We watch him roar through Skull Island, wrestle a
cobra and clamber up the Empire State Building, thanks to the puppeteers working
with cables, pulleys, motors and more.

Then again, being awesome is in his DNA: Kong is a direct descendant of "Walking
With Dinosaurs," the touring robotic stadium spectacular that stopped at
Barclays Center a few years back.

"I think of him as an animatronic-puppet hybrid," says Carmen Pavlovic, the
chief exec of "Walking" producer Global Creatures, who started working on the
Kong story in 2007.

"Early on, we decided he shouldn't seem hyperreal or superhairy, like a
theme-park ride," she says.

"We wanted to make him stylized, and give the audience the chance to put their
imagination to work." Gavin Robins oversees "The King's Company," the team of
acrobatic, black-clad men and women who work the ropes and lines that propel the
creature around the stage and nearly into the audience.

Winches above the stage help control other movements, while joystick-wielding
puppeteers in the booth - called the Voodoo Lounge - monitor Kong's facial
expressions. And there are many: sadness, anger, wistfulness and longing play
out against that great, furrowed brow, often accompanied by a grunt, snarl or
roar.

"When they developed the show in Australia, they thought they'd press buttons to
make those sounds," says Jon Hoche, the Voodoo Lounge puppeteer who gives Kong
his voice. "Then they realized they needed a live person to interact with the
people onstage." Hoche warms up for each show like any other musical performer,
with a series of arpeggios, and ends it the same way, with licorice and
throat-coat tea. His hmms and growls are in the script, and his voice is put
through a processor to enhance it.

"By the end of each show, it feels like I've gone through a vocal marathon,"
Hoche says. And while he provided most of the neighs during the road tour of the
Tony-winning play "War Horse," he calls Kong "my dream role." "I've been in love
with the 1933 movie since I was a little kid," the 38-year-old says. "I couldn't
think of a better way to make my debut than as the biggest leading man on
Broadway!"

* Kong's skin is made of a stretch nylon mesh and latex paint. While most of his
body is hard, his face, says co-star Christiani Pitts (below), is "soft and
squishy."

* His facial expressions are controlled by 15 small industrial motors, the same
ones NASA used in its Mars rovers.

* Inside him are 985 feet of electrical cable and 16 microprocessors.

* His teeth were carved from a sculptural foam, hard-coated with resin and
painted white.

* He's 20 feet tall and weighs 2,000 pounds.

* Each of his hands is roughly 4 feet wide and 4 feet long.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "King Kong" the musical. [Matthew Murphy]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 11, 2018 Thursday

Oil not well with Blasio

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen and Yoav Gonen

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 162 words


In a continuing bid to raise his national profile, Mayor de Blasio on Wednesday
announced two initiatives that target the oil industry.

The moves include a federal lawsuit that seeks to recoup billions of dollars
from five major fossil-fuel companies for the city's spending on climate change
and a plan to divest up to $5 billion of city pension-fund investments from 194
oil firms.

While Hizzoner said at a press conference that the city "will" divest from
fossil-fuel companies - noting, "Everyone's ready to do it, everyone wants to do
it" - city Comptroller Scott Stringer, who appeared with the mayor, was more
careful to call it a "goal" that thus far is only supported by two of the city's
five pension-fund boards.

The federal suit filed by the city a day earlier named as defendants BP,
Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell - which the court
papers allege have produced more than 11 percent of the world's carbon and
methane pollution.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 13, 2018 Saturday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 708 words


Conservative: Will Trump Turn Left in 2018?

It's undeniable that the policy results of Donald Trump's first year as
president "have been pretty conservative," says The Weekly Standard's Stephen
Hayes. And while "few in either camp would mistake this moment for the dawning
of a new era of conservatism . . . it's not nothing, either." It all goes back
to May 2016, when Trump, "not terribly interested in policy," declared in a
meeting he'd let House Speaker Paul Ryan "drive it from the Hill." And, indeed,
"Republicans have used Trump to achieve conservative ends." But reports now
suggest Trump supports Senate Majority Leader Mitch's McConnell's "modest
agenda" that goes "heavy on bipartisanship." So expect Trump's second year to
"more closely resemble those we might expect of a centrist Democrat than a
Republican."

Foreign desk: Focus on Iranian People, Not Centrifuges

Though it seems unlikely, President Trump and Europe are on the same side when
it comes to Iran, "stuck in a familiar policy cycle" of "threaten, punish and
negotiate," declares Bloomberg's Eli Lake. Yes, "it's possible to get predator
states like Iran to temporarily pause nuclear programs in exchange for lifting
sanctions and promises of investment." But "the root of the problem in Iran is
the regime itself" - "the dictatorship cannot be separated from its
proliferation. Indeed, the nuclear program is the dictator's insurance policy."
So it's time "to make the Iranian people the focus" of US policy. That means not
reimposing sanctions, which "would punish Iran's population at a moment when
America should show solidarity with the country's freedom movement."

Culture critic: More Proof Social Media Make Us Dumber

Steven Pinker is a liberal, Jewish psychology professor at Harvard. But as Jesse
Singal explains at The New York Times, because of a video clip in which he said
some on the alt-right are "highly intelligent," he finds himself widely - and
absurdly - vilified online as a "darling" of white supremacists. It's another
case in which social media make it almost impossible for people "to agree on
basic facts about news events." Why? Because "the pernicious social dynamics of
these online spaces hammer home the idea that anyone who disagrees with you on
any controversial subject, even a little bit, is incorrigibly dumb or evil or
suspect." As a result, "it's getting harder and harder to talk about anything
controversial online without every single utterance of an opinion immediately
being caricatured by opportunistic outrage-mongers."

Libertarian: Gov. Moonbeam Faces Pensions Reality

"Let us now praise California Gov. Jerry Brown, who is calling for reductions in
gold-plated, unsustainable public-sector pensions in the nation's most populous
state," proclaims Nick Gillespie at Reason. With his path to re-election blocked
by term limits, Brown (now in his third stint as governor) is finally "taking on
the public-sector unions he has spent his career empowering." No wonder:
California law says "public-sector employees at all levels of government" have
"an inviolable right to the pension benefits that existed on the day they were
hired." So with costs kicked down the road, as in most blue states, rising
pension expenses interfere with the ability to provide basic services.

Policy expert: The Absurdity of NYC Suing Oil Companies

Mayor de Blasio feels "confident" the city will be able to prove that five
leading oil companies are responsible for Hurricane Sandy by causing climate
change and will win damages in the tens of billions, says Seth Barron at City
Journal. The city likens the lawsuit it just filed to similar lawsuits against
the tobacco industry. But unlike Big Tobacco, the oil companies "sell a product
that was an integral element of the historical epoch called the Industrial Age."
Indeed, "fossil fuels permeate every aspect of society": "Whatever our hopes for
a green future, modern life for the past 150 years is unthinkable without oil,
gas, and coal." That's why "it's absurd to assign the blame for any particular
storm on these companies alone." But then, for de Blasio - who parades to his
gym in an SUV - "gestures and virtue-signaling preempt practical management or
governance."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steven Pinker.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 14, 2018 Sunday

Deb leaves Them cold

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 190 words


The early days of Mayor de Blasio's second term are shocking without being
surprising. "Let them eat cake" would be an improvement over the crumbs of
progressive symbolism he is feeding downtrodden New Yorkers.

With thousands of tenants suffering through the bitter cold without heat, the
mayor showed no compassion or passion. Perhaps that's because they were his
tenants - people living in the city's Housing Authority.

If only it were private landlords who had failed to provide basic services, de
Blasio would have trotted out the usual tropes of greed and cruelty and brought
the power of government down on their heads.

But when government is the problem, we get excuses followed by crickets.

That's not to say the mayor was entirely missing in action during the icy
weather. He filed a lawsuit against the five largest oil companies, aiming to
make them responsible for damage to the city from climate change.

That won't provide heat to shivering tenants or get the lead out of their
apartments, but it does make the mayor look good to national progressives.

And really, isn't that the whole point of his second term?

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 22, 2018 Monday

Media City The women march to Congress

BYLINE: Burrellesluce

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 258 words


New York magazine's cover story, on the Women's March on Washington, has the
numbers - no, not the total marchers - but an estimate of 390 women, 22 of whom
are non-incumbent blacks, who are planning to bring some political climate
change to Congress.

Elsewhere, the mag delivers with an intriguing feature about a 22-year-old
disturbed young man on a boating trip with his mom off Rhode Island. The boat
goes missing for seven days and then the man is rescued but the mom is nowhere
to be found, raising the question of foul play.

What's more, New York shows off pix of Soho-sold streetwear that is so popular
with teens that over the Christmas holiday you needed a ticket even to be able
to shop for some of the expensive duds.

Time, too, has a cover story on more women running for political office, without
a mention of last week's headline that Oprah (yeah, her) was flirting with a
presidential run. Jon Meacham's piece on the pivotal year of 1968 seems a little
dated considering the Ken Burns "Vietnam" series recently covered much of the
same ground.

The New Yorker reports on Jared Kushner's relationship with top Chinese
officials in "China's Trump Card," laying out how some US intelligence officials
became concerned the Middle Kingdom was seeking to use business inducements to
influence Kushner's views. Then the mag reports the intelligence wasn't
conclusive. Huh?

Later in the story it reports Kushner is no longer meeting frequently with
China's US ambassador. So, again, just exactly what were the editors getting at?

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 14, 2018 Wednesday

Dissing Trump led to 'Rex'-it

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 298 words


Anyone wanting to know why President Trump fired Rex Tillerson need look no
further than The New York Times. Its headlines on the move featured two claims:
Tillerson and Trump were "often at odds" and Tillerson was among the "most
well-regarded cabinet choices."

The first claim is completely true. The second is true only among Trump critics,
meaning Tillerson was well-regarded by the wrong people, including the Times.

Which is why he is soon-to-be the former secretary of state.

An insider tells me the president felt for some time that Tillerson had his own
foreign policy. Their differences infected most key issues: the Iranian nuclear
pact, moving our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, the climate accord, trade
deals, China.

In each case, Tillerson, the ex- head of Exxon, generally defended the status
quo that Trump wants to upset. He also had a bad habit, I'm told, of conveying
his doubts about Trump's policies to foreign officials.

That's a no-no and Trump simply grew tired of being undercut, especially as he
prepares for his planned meeting with North Korea's Kim Jong-un.

Tillerson's replacement is CIA head Mike Pompeo, whose hawkish forcefulness
Trump admires. Other than Chief of Staff John Kelly, Pompeo probably has spent
more time with the president than any other official because he personally
presents the daily intelligence brief.

As such, the change reflects the education of a president. Trump is no longer
the rookie boss in the Oval Office who even considered Mitt Romney before
picking Tillerson. At least in this case, he now knows what he wants, and who.

The switch, though brutally announced by a tweet, is a hopeful sign for America.
If Pompeo is as good as advertised, he will be one of Trump's most consequential
appointments.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 21, 2018 Saturday

Nixon's 'green' light on enviro

BYLINE: Bob Fredericks

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94 words


Democratic gubernatorial hopeful Cynthia Nixon said Friday she would make New
York 100 percent reliant on renewable energy by 2050.

"It's time to treat the Earth as our shared home where no one will worry that
their air, water, or land is being polluted by poison dug up from the ground,"
the former "Sex and the City" star said during a speech about environmental
policy at the Rockaway YMCA in Queens.

The Cuomo campaign said "the governor has led the nation in combating climate
change" by banning fracking and implementing rigorous clean-energy standards.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 26, 2018 Thursday

Federal Reserve rate cavalry to the rescue

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 899 words


The political drama that's playing out in Washington has one actor that hasn't
yet been introduced - the Federal Reserve.

And while the Fed may only be an understudy at this point, it could end up with
a leading role.

Let me explain.

The Fed has raised interest rates six times since 2015, the last hike coming
this past March. This has been a slow crawl upward from the extraordinarily low
rates that the Fed instituted to combat the Great Recession that began in late
2007.

Under Chairman Jerome Powell, the Fed has said that rates are rising because the
economy is either doing better or is about to do better (it said the same kind
of things when Janet Yellen was on the job).

But there's another reason the Fed has been pushing rates higher - and it has
more to do with preparing for a future shock than it does with any guesswork on
the improving economy.

The Fed needs rates up, so it can bring them down in the case of an emergency.

Most people assume that the emergency will be of an economic nature, say, if
business conditions weaken so much that they need to be boosted through lower
borrowing costs.

But the Fed may also have to respond to a political emergency like the attempted
impeachment of President Trump or some other sort of Washington chaos.

I don't think Trump will get impeached. And I don't think special counsel Robert
Mueller has the goods on him.

Some of Trump's aides may have done something wrong, but I don't think that will
rise to a level that would jeopardize the president.

But, as they say, you never know. The situation is especially uncertain if - as
I've thought all along - the Republicans, who don't like Trump as the head of
their party, gang up against the president.

And that's where the Fed comes in.

A political attack on Trump would create a constitutional crisis that will upset
the financial markets. Trump, after all, has been good for Wall Street. He's
produced tax reform that companies wanted, and the market has risen nicely since
he was elected.

The minute Trump looks to be in genuine jeopardy, investors will start worrying
about the effect on the economy. And the stock market will become unnerved.

America, as you may have heard, is already saddled with an enormous amount of
debt. And that indebtedness is going to increase because of the tax cuts that
companies want but fiscal conservatives don't.

Congress is not going to be able to increase government spending if the economy
is damaged by a political crisis in Washington.

That will leave the job of protecting the economy in the hands of the Fed. And
while no Fed boss will ever admit to acting to offset the effects of political
turmoil on the financial markets, that could be what ultimately happens.

It's good to look at the late 1990s for clues as to what could happen again if
the political situation in Washington deteriorates further.

Back then, Alan Greenspan was helming the Fed. And, as so today, there were a
lot of economic things going on when - in late 1998 - a bill of impeachment was
brought against President  Clinton.

As you probably know, the Senate let Clinton off the hook.

What was the Fed doing during this time? Cutting rates like crazy.

There were rapid-fire rate reductions in September, October and November of
1998. Then, the Fed stayed pat for six months before resuming rate hikes.

Fortunately, there were other things going on (severe financial problems in
Russia, the failure of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management, and the
irrational Y2K fears when the new century started) when the Fed was cutting
rates. So Greenspan never had to concede that the impeachment had anything to do
with his decisions.

But the Fed's interest rates were around 5 percent when all this was going on.
Today, the fed funds rate is a puny 1.75 percent - even after six hikes.

That leaves the Fed very little room to bring rates lower in the event of an
emergency - political or otherwise.

While the Fed has signaled that there will be two more rate hikes this year,
some experts have speculated that there might actually be three.

The notion that the Fed might be preparing for a political rescue mission is
given a little more credence by the fact that many experts would argue that
economic growth on its own right now does not justify the Fed's aggressiveness
on rates.

The US economy seems to have grown at only a 2 percent annual rate in the first
quarter of 2018. And while inflation has picked up - something the Fed wants to
happen because it indicates economic health - the increase in prices alone is
also not a good enough explanation for what the Fed has been doing.

And while the Fed keeps arguing that the economy is about to take off and bring
inflation with it, that's an argument we've been hearing for years.

Maybe it's true this time because of the tax cuts. But the effect of those tax
cuts on the economy might be lessened greatly by the higher interest rates that
the tax changes caused in the bond market.

One obvious reason for the rate hikes might be fairness: Savers in the US have
been penalized for 10 years by what the Fed has done.

I've just explained to you the less obvious reason for the hikes: The Fed is
gearing up to rescue America like some cartoon superhero. And it just might need
rescuing if Washington's politics get any crazier.

john.crudele@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 3, 2018 Thursday

Fast Takes

BYLINE: Compiled by Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 713 words


View from abroad: The Dangers of Alienating Europe

President Trump seems determined to confront America's European allies "on every
issue of importance, from trade to climate change to the multilateral deal with
Iran," observes Bloomberg's Leonid Bershidsky. Indeed, it sometimes seems like
he doesn't really want allies at all. That could be troubling, he suggests:
America's favorability is at just 46 percent in France and 35 percent in
Germany, the lowest since 2008. If Trump's foreign-policy approach is seen as
motivated by domestic political concerns, that would make US-bashing "popular
and politically lucrative" in Europe. Which means the next election cycle there
"may turn out to be far more anti-American than the last one." And that, he
warns, "is how longstanding alliances are undermined."

From the right: A Pretty Prom Dress and US Cultural Rot

National Review's David French relates "the dumbest story you've ever heard": A
white Utah teen named Keziah Daum posted photos of her Asian-influenced prom
dress to social media and was denounced for "cultural appropriation" by toxic
social-justice warriors whose accusations went viral. Daum, to her credit,
"weathered the shamestorm without backing down," saying she'd admired the
dress's beauty and the culture that inspired it. Hers has become the American
story. But this still underscores how those who claim to care the most about
identity and oppression "are seized by rage and unreason" - and "don't you dare
try to point out the nonsense." Yet "reason can't cede the public square to
rage." Indeed, Daum's experience is the new American story, "a symbol of the
incoherent anger that is tearing this nation apart."

Foreign desk: Use Iran Nuke Secrets To Squeeze Tehran

It'd be "a waste of this extraordinary intelligence" to use the treasure trove
of Iranian secrets stolen by Israel simply as a pretext for withdrawing from the
2015 nuclear deal, suggests The Washington Post's David Ignatius. Far better, he
says, "to use it as a pressure tool" on the Iranian regime. That could bring
Europe, Russia and China along in "a common push" to "isolate Iran and tighten
the deal," rather than hand Tehran "the propaganda victory that US withdrawal
would provide." Fact is, the Iranians have been caught "red-handed" - better to
"let them squirm awhile as the international community sifts the evidence."
Besides, says Ignatius, "there's far more" that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu didn't disclose. Thanks to Israel, President Trump "just got lucky on
Iran."

Conservative: Prez Confounds Critics Who Said He'd Quit

Give President Trump credit for at least one thing, suggests Ira Stoll at the
New York Sun: "outlasting his critics' predictions of the length of his tenure."
Just days after the 2016 election, he notes, The New York Times' David Brooks
confidently predicted Trump would "resign or be impeached within a year." And he
was hardly alone - though the goalposts keep getting moved. Blame it on "the
short-term commercial incentives of journalism-as-entertainment and the
longer-term commercial incentives of journalism-as-credible-information": A
"Trump Will Resign" headline "gets a lot of clicks" and "feeds the fantasies of
people who deeply dislike" Trump. But each false "resignation" headline "further
erodes the credibility of a press that . . . functions both as Mr. Trump's
opposition and his foil."

Activist: Tax-Hikers Are Coming For Your Meat

Global-warming activists have long tried and failed to impose a federal carbon
tax, notes Americans for Tax Reforms' Tyler Tate at the Washington Examiner. So
they're now pushing "a double-digit excise tax on American meat," posing "a
direct threat to grocery affordability, consumer choice and jobs." The basis for
this tax: "Livestock emit methane," so Washington "should impose exorbitant
'sin' taxes to make meat too expensive." It has growing support abroad:
Germany's federal environmental agency recently proposed a 19 percent meat tax.
Now this effort is "spilling into the US," led by animal-rights, environmental
and public-health advocates (the latter having already enacted taxes on sugary
drinks). But, like most taxes, its impact would fall disproportionately on
middle- and low-income Americans.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bibi Netanyahu.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 2, 2018 Saturday

AC honoring past, building for its future

BYLINE: George Willis

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 540 words


Evander Holyfield remembers the days when boxing's biggest fights were held in
Atlantic City.

"I wondered why we even had to fight in Las Vegas," Holyfield said this week. "I
enjoyed fighting in Atlantic City; same time zone as Atlanta."

Holyfield, the four-time heavyweight champion, fought some of his most memorable
battles at Convention Hall. Stopping Dwight Muhammad Qwai in the fourth round of
their rematch for the cruiserweight championship in 1987 and a successful
defense of the heavyweight title against George Foreman in 1991 were the
highlights. There were other fights with Hasim Rahman, Chris Byrd, Ray Mercer,
Alex Stewart and Seamus McDonagh.

"Those were exciting times for boxing," Holyfield said.

It will be an exciting weekend in Atlantic City again for Holyfield, who is part
of the 2018 induction class for the Atlantic City Boxing Hall of Fame. Holyfield
headlines a list of former boxers being inducted Sunday that include Bobby Czyz,
Bruce Seldon, Hector Camacho Sr., Jeff Chandler, Vinny Paz, Richie Kates and
Mercer. Others notables being honored include trainer George Benton, promoters
Bob Arum and Dan Duva, and contributors Jose Sulaiman and President Donald
Trump.

The event will honor Atlantic City's rich boxing history at a time when a change
in the sports betting laws could lead to a revitalization of the sport in the
city. Atlantic City hasn't hosted a major boxing event in four years, but a
consistent schedule of world-class boxing and MMA events are being targeted as a
method to lure customers to Atlantic City who will wager on sports when the
state makes it legal.

Holyfield, now a promoter, is testing the grounds for his Real Deal Sports and
Entertainment Company by staging a boxing card at the Adrian Phillips Theater on
Saturday night. It will highlight Hall of Fame Weekend with plans to return in
the fall.

"We're trying to bring boxing back to Atlantic City," Holyfield said. "This was
a place where people from D.C., Philadelphia and New York could come and watch
big fights. It's a good boxing audience and they'll come back to see good
fights."

Among those thinking the time is right for a boxing renaissance in Atlantic City
is Kathy Duva of Main Events. Her fighter, Sergey Kovalev, defends his WBO light
heavyweight title Aug. 4 against Eleider Alvarez at the Hard Rock Hotel and
Casino, which is scheduled to open June 28. HBO will televise what will be the
first world championship boxing show in Atlantic City since Kovalev defeated
Bernard Hopkins by decision there in 2014.

Duva's late husband, Dan, is among those being enshrined Sunday. She remembers
the days when Main Events would promote up to three boxing shows a week in
Atlantic City and thinks the climate is right for similar resurgence with the
arrival of sports gambling.

"Our company's 40-year anniversary was a few days ago," she said. "I remember
what the launch of casino gambling did for us as a company and now I think the
launch of sports betting is going to bring back a rebirth of Atlantic City and a
resurgence of interest in boxing."

The Hall of Famers will celebrate Atlantic City's boxing history this weekend,
but the future finally looks bright, too.

george.willis@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            September 9, 2018 Sunday

New York Fashion Week 2018 He's not hemmed in by the 'rules' Christian Siriano
slams high fashion's lack of plus-size style

BYLINE: RAQUEL LANERI

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1171 words


Ten years ago, Christian Siriano was casting his label's first show at New York
Fashion Week. But instead of going with the pale, willowy girls dominating
catwalks at the time, Siriano - fresh off his win on the ­reality-TV competition
"Project Runway" - stocked his debut with Victoria's Secret bombshells and
unknown models of color.

He didn't know he was being such a maverick.

"I just thought that's what you should have: a great mix of beautiful women from
different cultures and different parts of the world," the designer, 32, told The
Post. "Remembering back to 2008, '09, '10, a lot of brands were interested in
the very small, waify girl."

Part of his resistance to that trend, he admits, came from not wanting to
reinforce the message that only skinny women have a place in fashion - and it
came from a place of concern. "There were always those girls that I was worried
about," he added, referencing the alarmingly frail gamines who would arrive at
castings.

That desire to have a runway that more accurately reflects real life has made
Siriano one of the most influential and disruptive forces working in fashion.
Now, a decade after his debut, the rest of the industry is finally starting to
catch up with him.

According to the Fashion Spot's runway-diversity report, nearly 40 percent of
models who walked last New York Fashion Week, in February, were nonwhite - up
from 21 percent in 2015, the first year the site began keeping track of the
numbers. Last Fashion Week also saw 27 plus-size models (up from 14 in 2015) and
33 trans models (up from just three in 2015).

Yet even in this more inclusive climate, Siriano stands out. While high-end
designers rarely manufacture clothes above a size 14 (if that), Siriano's line
goes up to size 28 - and he's critical of department stores that haven't caught
up. "It's a bit strange that Neiman Marcus and Saks don't have a huge size range
- online you can only get up to a size 16," he said.

His muses include voluptuous icons like Christina Hendricks and Oprah. And his
shows are more like parties than fashion presentations, with "Saturday Night
Live" stars Leslie Jones whooping it up in the audience as plus-size beauties
Ashley Graham and strut down the runway.

At Siriano's show on Saturday, at Gotham Hall in Midtown, 12 "curve" or
plus-size models walked. (The front row included Tiffany Haddish, Whoopi
Golberg, model Coco Rocha - with her 3-year-old daughter - and Cynthia Nixon.)

"We have all seen brands who experiment with a token curvy girl on the runway,
or a season where they use a few models of color," Rocha told The Post. "For
Christian it's not a gimmick or a trend."

Siriano grew up in Annapolis, Md., the son of two teachers who divorced when he
was 5. Despite living in a "very buttoned-up" town, Siriano's family was stylish
and eccentric.

"My mom got married in a Diane von Furstenberg wrap dress," he said of his first
muse, his size-16, "curvy" mother. By the time he was 13, he was crafting
dresses for her. But while his mom taught him about style, his older sister, a
ballerina, showed him the fantasy of fashion.

"I would be backstage with her doing costumes and hair and makeup, and I would
see these girls in their warm-up [clothes] putting on these tulle fairy dresses
and transforming. I thought that was so romantic and amazing."

After high school at the Baltimore School of the Arts, Siriano moved to London
to study fashion, interning with legends Alexander McQueen and Vivienne
Westwood, whose rebellious approach to design - and to their runway shows -
influenced the budding designer.

"In Europe, the models were very small, skinny white girls," said Siriano. "But
McQueen was different. You had Naomi Campbell coming in and getting fittings -
he created clothes for real women. And Westwood really loved diverse shows. She
was like, the crazier the model, the better."

Siriano quickly earned a reputation for dressing women the fashion industry
usually ignores. (It helped that the industry gatekeepers ignored him, at first,
too.) In 2008, he won "Project Runway," collaborated with Payless, launched his
line - to dismissive ­reviews - and nabbed his first celebrity client: Whoopi
Goldberg.

Plenty of starlets, like Taylor Swift, followed. But dressing Goldberg, an
unapologetic, middle-age, nonwhite comedian who didn't wear a size 0, inspired
other celebrities who didn't quite conform to Hollywood's narrow standards to
turn to Siriano to make them look like glamazons.

"It was the same thing when I got my first request for Oprah, or Queen Latifah,"
said Siriano. When "SNL" star Jones tweeted in 2016 that no designer would dress
her for the premiere of her film "Ghostbusters," Siriano responded with an emoji
hand wave.

The result was a sexy, off-the-shoulder sheath in fire-engine red. He's dressed
her about a dozen times since.

"She's so much fun. She makes you feel good, her fittings are a blast, and you
never know what she's going to say," said Siriano. "She's an amazing actress and
awesome person . . . It shouldn't be that hard for someone like her to find a
pretty dress."

In 2016, Siriano's red-carpet work led to a collaboration with the plus-size
chain Lane Bryant, and he was blown away by the brand's spokeswomen - many of
whom he had never seen at castings or go-sees for Fashion Week.

"Lane Bryant really changed everything with their 'I'm No Angel' campaign.
Suddenly agencies were signing plus-size models and they were becoming
available," he said.

But Candice Huffine - who modeled for Siriano's Lane Bryant campaign and has
since walked in his shows (including Saturday's) - gives the credit to the
designer for pushing the industry forward.

Before working with Siriano, she said, "it was a struggle to be dressed in the
high-fashion space. Many shoots were just lingerie, bodysuits or portraits
because there were simply no designers to fill the racks to create a fashion
story."

In December, Huffine nabbed a cover shoot with ELLE Brazil.

Unlike many of his peers, Siriano produces samples in a variety of sizes, which
means he can loan magazines clothes for a variety of body types.

"Yeah, it is more expensive to create samples in different sizes," said Siriano.
"But honestly, there are no rules saying that a sample has to be a certain size.
No one said you can't make your first sample in a size 8."

And it isn't just designers who are to blame for fashion's size problem.

"Even if plus-sizes are available, not all retailers are buying them," he said.
"There's so much that needs to be changed."

But Siriano is confident that change will come, even if just for economic
reasons.

"Fashion can be very closed-off because it's obsessed with being seen as
aspirational," he added. "But most women just want to see the clothes on someone
who looks a little closer to them. That's what designers have to realize:
Clothes can still be aspirational and fantasy, but they can be that on all these
different types of people."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -HIS WAY: Christian Siriano is celebrating 10 years of showing at New
York Fashion Week - and of disrupting the industry. [Getty Images]-Curves ahead:
A model flaunts one of Christian Siriano's creations on the runway at New York
Fashion Week Saturday. [WWD / REX / Shutterstock]-A RAINBOW OF SHAPES AND SIZES:
Christian Siriano has become a proud red-carpet champion of curvaceous and
plus-size women, including (from left) Ashley Graham, Christina Hendricks, Uzo
Aduba, "The Greatest Showman" star Keala Settle, Leslie Jones (the "Saturday
Night Live" star had previously tweeted that no designer would dress her for the
"Ghostbusters" premiere) and "Orange Is the New Black" actress Danielle Brooks.
[REX / Shutterstock; Getty Images (3); Wireimage (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 13, 2018 Tuesday

CALIFORNIA BURNING Miley & Neil join charred star list

BYLINE: Tamar Lapin and Lia Eustachewich

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 226 words


Miley Cyrus and Neil Young have joined the growing list of celebs whose homes
have been destroyed in the California wildfires, while others, such as Sandra
Bullock and Lady Gaga, are lending a helping hand.

Cyrus tweeted Monday that she was "devastated" by the havoc wrought by the
Woolsey Fire, adding she and fiancé Liam Hemsworth were safe after losing their
Malibu home.

And Young, who lives with actress-wife Daryl Hannah, revealed he, too, lost his
Malibu house - the second time he has lost a home to a wildfire.

In a statement on his Web site, the rocker also blasted President Trump.

"California is vulnerable - not because of poor forest management as DT (our
so-called president) would have us think," wrote Young, 73. "We are vulnerable
because of Climate Change."

Other stars burned out of their pads were actor Gerard Butler, singer Robin
Thicke and Camille Grammer of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills."

Some turned to their star power to help out.

Lady Gaga delivered a pep talk to evacuees at an LA school Sunday night.

"I will be with you every step of the way, even the second that I leave this
room," she said.

She sang to a 98-year-old woman at the shelter and gave out gift cards.

Bullock gave $100,000 to the Humane Society of Ventura County to help workers
care for animals rescued from the flames.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - Damage done: A debris pile is all that's left of Neil Young's Malibu
pad Monday. [EPA]- Burned lines: Pop singer Robin Thicke's massive Malibu spread
was also leveled by the flames. [Splash News]- Houseless: "Real Housewives of
Beverly Hills" star Camille Grammer's home is just a shell Monday. [BackGrid]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 13, 2018 Tuesday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: Compiled by Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 716 words


From the left: NY and DC Should Tell Amazon To Get Lost

The quest to host Amazon's HQ2 - with its promise of 50,000 new jobs and $5
billion in economic investment - set off "a massive, absurd competition,"
contends Jeff Spross at The Week. Now it appears HQ2 will be split between Long
Island City and a Washington, DC, suburb, which is "bad for everyone" - except
Amazon. Both cities' unemployment is below the national rate; both already are
"high-pay, high-education hubs" and both "are straining under booming
populations and sky-high housing prices that Amazon's arrival will only
exacerbate." Plus, the "corporate care packages" of tax breaks and other
subsidies being offered will only "undercut a city or state's ability to invest
in the public good." Amazon should pick "a less obvious city where it could do
some real good."

Conservative: Whitaker Pick a Self-Inflicted Wound

President Trump is "deep into the search" for a new attorney general, and
"there's great reason to be quick in the decision-making," urges The Washington
Post's Hugh Hewitt. Because his appointment of Michael Whitaker as acting AG
strikes many as "an utterly unnecessary self-inflicted political wound." Fact
is, it only served to reignite conspiracy theories about collusion with Russia
that finally appeared to be doused. This, even though there's little to suggest
Whitaker was named as part of an "elaborate plot" to stop special counsel Robert
Mueller, whose investigation apparently is winding down anyway. Naming a new,
widely admired Justice Department veteran as interim chief is "the smart move
that would shut down the charges of Whitaker as Mueller muffler."

Pollster: Both Parties Need a New Message for 2020

Republicans "need a united message" going forward from the midterms, and
President Trump "cannot be a lone wolf with a party whose fundamental issue
points appear to be at odds with his," asserts Douglas Schoen at The Hill.
Democrats, meanwhile, need to realize that there's "a lot more to winning an
election than health care and climate change." They need "a message on the
federal budget and entitlements to demonstrate some degree of fiscal prudence
and social compassion." There was "a clear benefit and strength" in Trump
appealing to the GOP base on immigration. But had Republicans "run a campaign
focused exclusively on the economy," they "would undeniably have lost fewer"
House seats. Absent a new centrist message from Democrats, though, Trump has to
be the favorite for re-election.

Centrist: The Warning All Journalists Should Heed

While watching the televised confrontation between President Trump and CNN's Jim
Acosta, syndicated columnist Ruben Navarrette recalled a heated phone interview
he had 15 years ago with a county sheriff who considered him his "nemesis." As
things reached the boiling point, Navarrette's boss "slid me a short note" that
read, "Be professional." So he "took a deep breath," ignored the sheriff's
insults and "pressed ahead with the interview." Other subjects over the years
have complained Navarrette was "overly combative and argumentative" and "maybe I
was. That's the job." But Acosta "was arrogant, rude and sanctimonious. He was
sent to cover a story and he made himself the story." When he got answers, "he
rejected them." He acted like "he was the only reporter in the room - or, for
that matter, on Planet Earth."

From the right: How Florida Elections Work - or Don't

The League of Women Voters and Common Cause are threatening to sue Florida Gov.
Rick Scott for hovering over the state's recount of last week's elections for
governor and senator. City Journal's Myron Magnet suggests that Scott "see them
and raise them by calling in the FBI to investigate the Broward County Board of
Elections." Indeed, it "cries out for federal oversight." Our democracy's
legitimacy "rests on the honesty and trustworthiness of our voting process,"
which has grown suspect in too many places: "We don't purge voter rolls of the
dead or relocated, we don't require proof of eligibility through
government-issued ID cards, our voting-machine technology is amateurish and
easily hacked even when it does work, and our election officials are suspect."
Finding and fixing what's broken "should be Priority One for our politics."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jim Acosta.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 4, 2018 Tuesday

The naked truth

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 101 words


You regret the error? How do you think we feel? The Huffington Post's British
arm accidentally conjured an uncomfortably striking image Monday. "We've deleted
an earlier version of this video that incorrectly described Sir David
Attenborough, 92, as a 'naturist,' " said the site of the beloved BBC wildlife
broadcaster. "We of course meant to describe him as a naturalist. We regret the
error." Chiefly used outside the US, the term "naturist" means nudist.
Attenborough, meanwhile, spoke at a UN conference in Poland Monday about climate
change. He was there occupying the conference's "People's Seat."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 125 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 31, 2018 Monday

NYCHA Wins Laurels And other news you won't see in 2019

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 708 words


A roller-coaster stock market. Far-left Democrats on the rise. A federal
government shutdown . . .

Given all the turmoil of 2018, who can say what the new year will bring? On the
other hand, it's a cinch to know what won't happen in 2019. Herewith, then, are
my annual predictions of what not to expect in the coming year.

l Mayor de Blasio will be named Landlord of the Year for his outstanding
management of NYCHA.

l The author of the anonymous anti-Trump op-ed in The New York Times will get
his own nightly show on Fox News - and host it from behind a curtain.

l Something will finally force Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg to slow
down just a little.

l With the rainy season set to start, the boys from Thailand's Wild Boars soccer
team will try to get . . . just one more look from inside the cave where they
got trapped.

l House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer will
launch a major drive to fund a wall along the Mexican border.

l Pelosi and Schumer will at least concede that people looking to enter the
United State should do so legally.

l Still committed to fighting climate change, French President Emmanuel Macron
will impose a new gas tax six times higher than his last one - and live to tell
about.

l Facebook will make sure to keep all its users' data private. No, really!

l President Trump will ask ex-lawyer Michael Cohen to pay more women to cover up
his affairs.

l Conservatives Ben Shapiro and Ann Coulter will be chosen to co-host the
Academy Awards.

l Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Sen. Bernie Sanders will offer
seminars on the enormous inherent value of a free market.

l All the inmates sprung by RFK Human Rights will lead productive, model lives.
Not one will commit another crime.

l A member of the Trump administration will be left in peace as he eats dinner
in a restaurant with his family.

l The name Kardashian will not appear in a single newspaper. Anywhere. Ever.

l Though New York Democrats control both houses of the Legislature and the
governorship, they'll nonetheless act responsibly, holding down taxes and
backing strong law-enforcement to keep crime low.

l Roseanne Barr will convert to Islam.

l Arguing that kids deserve the best possible education, teachers-union boss
Mike Mulgrew will insist schools rigorously evaluate his members' classroom
performance and fire those who aren't up to snuff.

l Every major-league sports team in the New York area will make the playoffs.

l CNN White House correspondent Jim Acosta will ask President Trump a question -
rather than give him a lecture.

l The Dow Jones Industrial Average will go the entire year without posting a
single loss.

l  Gov. Cuomo's economic-development programs will trigger a huge boom in
upstate investment and jobs.

l  Gov. Cuomo's economic-development programs will spur moderate job growth
upstate.

l  Gov. Cuomo's programs will at least generate more jobs than corruption.

l  Hillary Clinton will blame - wait for it - herself for her 2016 loss to Trump
and exit the public stage for good.

l  No one from Team Trump will quit or be fired. Or even get indicted.

l  Schools Chancellor Richard Carranza will work to improve city schools, rather
than focus on racial issues.

l  Contemplating retirement, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas will miss his
last opportunity to miss an opportunity - recognize Israel as a Jewish state and
sign a peace agreement establishing the nation of Palestine.

l A Republican will win an important election somewhere in New York City.

l With the sole commuter-train tunnel under the Hudson steadily crumbling,
construction of new tubes will finally begin.

l Trump will ask ex-Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis to head his 2020 re-election
campaign.

l Mattis will accept.

l Colleges will ensure that at least half of their professors are conservatives.

l Colleges will aim to have conservatives make up 25 percent of their faculty.

l Colleges will push for at least one conservative on every US campus.

l Trump will invite caravans from all over the world to come to America. Mexico
will pay.

l Journalists will finally stop making silly New Year predictions.

abrodsky@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Winner? It's a long way from Blas' NYCHA turnaround plan to Landlord of
the Year. [Gabriella Bass]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
