
                               1 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Hot Enough for You Yet? Try coping with no A/C

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 712 words


This week's heat wave drives home a critical point: New Yorkers need air
conditioning. Which is why it's so disheartening that one of the climate-change
crowd's chief remedies for rising temperatures is: less A/C.

That would be the result of efforts to limit the use of air conditioners and
make it more expensive to use them by driving up the price of electricity. And
it's just one of the numerous costs that tend to get overlooked by warming
activists.

Fact is, the cause of this week's heat - climate change or some evil but
temporary weather pattern - is still subject to debate (never mind claims that
"the science is settled"). And the lack of consensus should serve as a loud
warning about how to respond to rising temperatures. Or, at least, about the
need to assess the costs of any action honestly.

For the short term, the city's Office of Emergency Management and Department of
Health are offering sensible measures. Much of it boils down to two words: air
conditioning.

"New Yorkers who are vulnerable should use air conditioning to stay cool," an
advisory reads. "Go to a place that has air conditioning if it is not available
at home." They're also urging folks to "drink water at regular interval" and
"check in on vulnerable friends, family members and neighbors." Sound advice.

What's more, the city has 425 cooling centers - air-conditioned sites open to
the public. Great.

For the long run, though, Mayor Bloomberg's a climate-change true believer. He's
prepared a "sustainability" blueprint, called PlaNYC 2030, which maps steps for
the city in preparation for warmer temps, among other trends. (Oddly, it didn't
call for more power companies in the city to service the additional
air-conditioning needs.) Last month, Hizzoner unveiled another plan - this one,
meant to protect against rising seas that will result from warming, would cost
some $20 billion.

Many of the candidates for mayor (Chris Quinn and Bill Thompson, for example)
are also urging action in the face of more heat and higher sea levels. And
President Obama, too, has been on a climate-change kick. In June, he rolled out
a renewed war on fossil fuels - particularly coal, which produces heat-trapping
CO2.

Not one of these pols seems to care much about the costs.

Yet Team Bloomberg's push for A/C this week shows just why climate-change
thinking often seems based on, well, hot air: Air conditioning may feel great
and saves lives, but you've generally got to burn fossil fuel to generate the
electricity to run it. And doing so, supposedly, accelerates global warming.

Indeed, to slow the growth of worldwide temperatures, Bloom­berg & Co. might
suggest we turn off our A/C, not turn it up.

As for Obama, his war on coal will drive up electric rates, further discouraging
the use of air conditioners.

If the climate folks are right, and we have to live with less A/C even as the
planet gets warmer, the least they could do is acknowledge the true cost -
whether in lives lost to heat exposure or in mere discomfort.

If it turns out they're wrong about the warming, after all, all that sacrifice
will have been in vain.

This is what happens when you play down the costs of taking action and focus
blindly on the potential consequences of inaction. Critics like Bjorn Lomborg
make similar points on a far grander scale, arguing that "the costs of dealing
with climate change poorly will be much higher than the benefits which will
accrue."

Of course, the more fundamental problem is predicting the future in the first
place. Obama noted last month that "the 12 warmest years in recorded history
have all come in the last 15 years." But The New York Times recently admitted
that warming has leveled off over the past 15 years, "even as greenhouse gases
have accumulated . . . at a record pace."

Meanwhile, a new nine-year study of polar ice is warning of "uncertainty to
extrapolations of future [ice] mass loss and sea-level rise." That is, exactly
what Bloomberg, Quinn, Thompson, et al., are planning for.

New Yorkers are hoping for a bit of relief from this week's heat, possibly, the
weathermen say, by early next week. After that, of course, it's anybody's guess
- even if the climate folks are planning as if it's not.

abrodsky@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A scorching sleep: A man on a bench near Times Square this week naps
through grueling temperatures. Climate-change advocates say it'll only get
worse, but their 'remedies' might lead to less air conditioning. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Obama 2.0 Prez opens up with left hook *  Inaugural takes a shot at far right *
Focus on gay rights, immig reform

BYLINE: , Geoff Earle , S.A. Miller , and

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words


WASHINGTON - President Obama yesterday delivered a full-throated call for a bold
liberal agenda, vowing in his Inaugural Address to take aggressive action on
climate change, gay rights and immigration reform during his second term.

"America's possibilities are limitless," Obama declared as he teed up a to-do
list destined to encounter fierce opposition from Republicans. "My fellow
Americans, we are made for this moment, and we will seize it, so long as we
seize it together."

The 19-minute speech, delivered from a stage outside the Capitol, set a series
of ambitious markers for Obama's next four years in office.

Seizing upon the coincidence that his inauguration fell on Martin Luther King
Jr. Day, America's first black president recalled the country's civil-rights
struggle to argue that his agenda has a moral imperative.

"Preserving our individual freedoms ultimately requires collective action,"
Obama said, calling for spending initiatives to boost education and build roads,
communication networks and science labs.

"Now, more than ever, we must do these things together, as one nation and one
people," he said.

About 800,000 people crowded the National Mall to cheer Obama, less than half
the record 1.8 million who showed up for his historic inauguration four years
ago.

Obama, who no longer has to face voters at the ballot box, went out of his way
to confront Tea Party members and other conservative Republicans who have been
the staunchest critics of unchecked spending and of the more than $16.4 trillion
in federal debt.

The president defended America's growing entitlement programs.

"The commitments we make to each other through Medicare and Medicaid and Social
Security, these things do not sap our initiative, they strengthen us," he said,
directly challenging GOP calls for reform.

"They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that
make this country great," he said in what sounded like a swipe at comments by
Republican vice-presidential candidate Paul Ryan during the 2012 campaign.

"We must make the hard choices to reduce the cost of health care and the size of
our deficit," he said. "But we reject the belief that America must choose
between caring for the generation that built this country and investing in the
generation that will build its future."

Obama vowed to tackle climate change, an issue he rarely mentioned during his
re-election campaign amid a shaky economy.

"We will respond to the threat of climate change, knowing that the failure to do
so would betray our children and future generations," he said. "Some may still
deny the overwhelming judgment of science, but none can avoid the devastating
impact of raging fires and crippling drought and more powerful storms."

Using cadences reminiscent of Dr. King's iconic speeches, Obama invoked Seneca
Falls, the march at Selma, Ala., and the Stonewall riots - three key moments in
the struggles for women's rights, civil rights and gay rights, respectively.

"Our journey is not complete until our wives, our mothers and daughters can earn
a living equal to their efforts. Our journey is not complete until our gay
brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are
truly created equal, then surely, the love we commit to one another must be
equal as well. Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait
for hours to exercise the right to vote," he said.

And he promised to confront immigration reform and overhaul gun laws in the wake
of the Sandy Hook massacre.

"Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to welcome the striving,
hopeful immigrants who still see America as a land of opportunity, until bright
young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled
from our country," Obama said.

"Our journey is not complete until all our children - from the streets of
Detroit to the hills of Appalachia to the quiet lanes of Newtown - know that
they are cared for and cherished and always safe from harm."

And he took aim at his budget foes.

"For now, decisions are upon us and we cannot afford delay. We cannot mistake
absolutism for principle or substitute spectacle for politics or treat
name-calling as reasoned debate," he said.

Republican lawmakers said they were surprised by the partisan, leftward tilt.

"It was definitely liberal in tone, much more than I would expect in an
inaugural speech," said Rep. Peter King (R-LI). "What bothers me is that I
thought parts of it [were] more of a campaign speech than an inaugural address.
He's implying that he wants to take care of disabled kids and Republicans don't.
I think we could have done without the partisan shots. All of that to me was
inappropriate."

Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) found cause for concern in Obama's progressive call
for action.

"The president unequivocally affirms that he believes that government is good
and needs to be stronger," Sessions said. "I'm very worried if the president of
the United States does not understand that in our great expansion of our social
and welfare programs, there is a danger of dependency being created."

But Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who lost to Obama in the 2008 presidential
election, didn't begrudge him the chance to kick off his term with bold
challenges. Still, he expected him to be more conciliatory.

"The president won the election. He has favorable ratings with the American
people. Everything I've been told is that he's going to pursue that agenda in
his second term. He campaigned on that, so it's not as if it comes as a
surprise," said McCain.

But, he added, "I would have loved to have seen some more about national
security, and I would have liked to have seen at least a sentence about us
having to work together."

Obama delivered his call for social justice on a day filled with pomp,
pageantry, and celebrity glitz.

Katy Perry, John Mayer, and Eva Longoria were among the celebrities with good
seats.

After the ceremony, Obama dined with lawmakers in the Capitol.   Additional
reporting by

geoff.earle@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wave of support: President Obama salutes the massive crowd that
gathered yesterday in Washington to hear him deliver his second Inaugural
Address. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday

Jeter talks climate at Davos

BYLINE:

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 279 words


DEREK Jeter is at the Davos World Economic Forum hoping to discuss climate
change. While the Yankee captain isn't exactly known for getting involved in
politics, Jeter says he hopes in the wake of Hurricane Sandy that climate change
is addressed as global political and business leaders gather in Switzerland.
Jeter, who is sponsored by Gatorade, was invited by Pepsi, which owns the brand.
"I was in New York for Hurricane Sandy," Jeter told the Columbus Dispatch
following a private lunch thrown by Pepsi. Climate change is "just something
that's gotten so much attention," Jeter said. "Regardless of how you feel about
it, it's something that needs to be addressed because we're seeing more and more
natural disasters each year . . . Something has to be causing it." But while

saying it was an "honor" to attend the forum, calling it "the biggest business
conference in the world," he added he doesn't try to inject himself into
politics: "I know my place." But, according to Tina Brown's Twitter feed, he did
have an opinion on Lance Armstrong: "Should have admitted mistake and moved on.
He fooled everyone." More than 2,500 business leaders, politicians and academics
are attending the gathering on key issues facing the world in 2013. They include
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, Russian PM
Dmitry Medvedev, British PM David Cameron, IMF chair Christine Lagarde, Yahoo's
Marissa Mayer, JPMorgan Chase's Jamie Dimon and UBS Chairman Axel Weber. Jeter,
who's recovering from surgery on his fractured left ankle, has been working out
at the Yankees training complex and says he expects to be in the Opening Day
lineup on April 1.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

FIVE-STAR OF DAVID With today's opening of the Ritz-Carlton, Herzliya, global
luxury finally arrives in Israel. DAVID KAUFMAN finds out if the country can
deliver KOSHER CLASS

BYLINE: and DAVID KAUFMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1514 words


On a sunny slice of shoreline a short stroll from the Mediterranean, the future
of luxury travel in Israel finally debuted this morning. The setting is Herzliya
- one of Israel's most affluent towns, some 20 minutes north of Tel Aviv, and
home to oligarchs, ambassadors and other members of the global economic elite.
Here - where sun-kissed surfers catch powerful waves and high-tech firms keep
Israel's economy churning - the venerable Ritz-Carlton chain has opened its 85th
property. Built over four years at a cost of $175 million, the Ritz-Carlton is
the first international five-star hotel to arrive in the Jewish state in nearly
20 years.

Set behind a Jenga-like facade and rising 12 stories above Herzliya's
yacht-filled marina, the Ritz-Carlton is Israel's most strident stab at securing
its share of the luxury travel market. Although well-known for its Holy Land
historic sites and windswept beaches, Israel - from hotels and restaurants to
taxis and tour guides - has always fallen short when it comes to world-class
service. Established by socialist pioneers and steeped in the communal
philosophy of Zionist kibbutz culture, Israelis may be unfailingly warm and
hospitable - but charm and refinement have hardly been their forte. How else to
explain a national cab culture where drivers often expect passengers to supply
directions - and not the other way around.

"Israel isn't a country with a strong tradition of luxury or service," says
Ritz-Carlton president and COO Herve Humler. "You arrive at a hotel and no one
opens your car door or greets you with 'hello.' We knew reaching the same
standards in Tel Aviv as in New York or Beijing would certainly be a challenge."

The Ritz-Carlton comes to Israel at a pivotal point in the nation's touristic
and economic development. Mostly spared from the ravages of the global economic
slowdown, relatively free of headline-making terror attacks and packed with a
record 3.7 million annual tourists, Israel - despite its domestic and regional
political troubles - has never been more popular. New museums in Tel Aviv and
Jerusalem, an unrivaled trove of iconic Bauhaus architecture and ascendent
foodie and nightlife scenes have all made the country popular with the culture
and lifestyle travelers who've previously favored more conventional - and less
conflict-ridden - destinations like Europe or Asia.

But as its visitor numbers surge, Israel's tourist industry has failed to keep
up with demand. Over the past five years, the country has added some 3,900 new
hotel rooms - mostly "boutique" hotels, but also luxury properties such as
Jerusalem's Mamilla and Isrotel's Beresheet desert resort at Mitzpe Ramon.
Larger and more full-service, the latter join existing upmarket brands including
Hilton, InterContinental and the local Dan chain, whose flagship is the iconic
King David Hotel in Jerusalem. Although 5,000 additional rooms are now under
construction, Israel is faced with a projected shortfall of 10,000 hotel rooms
by 2015, according to recent Ministry of Tourism data. And that shortfall has
positioned Israeli hotels as the seventh-most expensive in the world, according
to a hotels.com study this fall - pricier in Jerusalem than in London and Milan.

With the Ritz-Carlton's 115 rooms beginning at $375 per night, the new property
- designed by New York-based architecture firm Studio Gaia, the office behind W
Hotels in Seoul and Mexico City - will clearly offer little relief for budget
travelers. Which is why the company has placed so heavy a premium on solidifying
the hotel's service and design bona fides. The hotel's key investment has been
in staffing, particularly employees (and trainers) from abroad - as polyglot and
worldly as Ritz-Carlton's intended clientele. Both factions were on display last
week during the hotel's "countdown" - the 10-day process at every Ritz-Carlton
to prep the property for opening day.

In the case of Ritz-Carlton, Herzliya - which also includes 82 residential
apartments starting at roughly $1,000,000 - more than 75 global leaders arrived
in an unusually wintry Israel for the hands-on training: Ritz-Carlton, Moscow's
general manager; finance specialists from Portugal; sales folk from London;
housekeeping chiefs from the US; residence managers from the Cayman Islands -
even a head chef from Oman and a marketing expert from the United Arab Emirates,
two Arab nations still lacking formal diplomatic relations with Israel. Also on
site was COO Humler himself.

Their charges were equally international - Britons, Americans, Argentines,
Brazilians, Moroccans, Mexicans, French, Russians, South Africans and, of
course, Israelis. And the staffers' journeys to hotel employment were often as
unlikely as their backgrounds. Along with relying on conventional recruitment
fairs, the talent pool was sourced from more cosmopolitan institutions like
new-immigrant groups, the nation's top private university, rival hotel brands
and even Israel's foreign ministry. Israeli-born Director of Housekeeping Tami
Shefi, for instance, was lured back home from the Park Hyatt Sydney after more
than a decade in Australia; Guest Relations Supervisor Judy Derman spent most of
her career running a fashion company in her native South Africa while Dan
Levinson - RC's Director of Loss Prevention - held high-level government and
private-sector security positions across North America.

"We literally spent some 10,000 hours interviewing potential employees," says
hotel General Manager Gadi Hassin, a longtime Hyatt Hotels veteran. "Israelis
are known for being a bit rough," he continues. "We are still in the polishing
stage."

Beyond the extensive training procedures, opening an Israeli hotel comes with
its own set of unique challenges. Among the most unique is cuisine - or, more
precisely, creating a kosher culinary program that equally satisfies ancient
Jewish law and fickle five-star palates. Chef Jonathan Roshfeld - who helped
pioneer Israel's "nouvelle cuisine" movement - was brought in to oversee the
first all-kosher Ritz-Carlton in the company's 30-year history. Roshfeld's
mod-Levantine menu obviously eschews kosher no-nos such as pork, shellfish and
the mixing of milk and meat - focusing instead on southern Mediterranean dishes
anchored around vibrant flavors instead of creamy sauces.

Rather than feature cheese-heavy northern Italian pasta dishes, for instance,
Roshfeld opted for recipes from Sicily and Sardinia based on tomatoes, olives,
olive oils and local fish. In place of ice cream for dessert, he's developed a
sesame-rich "frozen tahini" that evokes the denseness of gelato. And for Friday
nights and Saturdays - when ovens must remain dormant to observe the Sabbath -
Roshfeld has devised an ultra slow-braised entrecôte that remains service-ready
and tender without reheating. For a chef whose previous restaurants serve
everything from squid to charcuterie, abiding by kashrut restrictions clearly
required a learning curve. "Eighty-five percent of my menu is actually similar
to my non-kosher kitchens," he explains.

As part of the "countdown," each Roshfeld dish - from dinner to room service -
was sampled and served. Also tested was every teak and leather-lined guestroom -
which served as temporary sleeping quarters for Ritz-Carlton's foreign trainers,
who checked everything from shower pressure to air conditioning to the in-room
espresso machines. And spotted (and sealed) were small leaks resulting from last
week's major Middle Eastern storm - which dumped snow across much of the region
for the first time in a century. There were numerous "team-building" exercises -
some fun, like a fashion show to present staff uniforms; others mildly cheesy,
like the end-of-week "pep rally." And near round-the-clock "mock scenario"
sessions - from greeting guests at curbside to a week of practice facials and
massages in the six-room spa.

Some 50 reservations have been booked for the hotel's first week - leisure
travelers shopping in the adjoining upscale mall, business travelers dealing
with Herzliya-based high-tech or natural gas firms and - perhaps - a few curious
locals. With a mere 115 rooms to fill, the Ritz-Carlton's ambitions are
relatively modest compared to new five-stars in China and the Persian Gulf,
which can easily top 500 rooms. Still, the Ritz-Carlton, Herzliya's performance
will serve as a litmus test, of sorts, for the coming wave of international
high-end brands soon to descend upon Israel. Next spring, the venerable
Waldorf-Astoria will open near Jerusalem's Old City with 226 rooms; in historic
Jaffa, just south of Tel Aviv, W Hotels is developing a 125-room outpost and
Kempinski is opening a 220-room hotel in Tel Aviv itself.

"There is definitely a market for these types of brands in Israel and there's no
reason why the Ritz-Carlton cannot succeed," says David Gilinksy, Israel travel
specialist at Isram Tours in New York. "But they must maintain their luxury
standards and not compromise their service," he adds. "That will be their main
risk, that will be their challenge."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -OPEN FOR BUSINESS: Beaches and surfers define the posh, seafront
lifesyle of Herzliya, home to Israel's first Ritz-Carlton hotel (above left),
which includes the brand's only kosher kitchen (right). The restaurant's
pan-Mediterranean dishes (below) are anchored around fresh fish and flavorful
vegetables-with no pork or shellfish. [Photos by Sivan Askayo]-MARINE ONE:
Herzliya's yacht-filled marina (above) is the center of Israel's nascent boating
culture. The Ritz-Carlton's mod-designed lobby (left), which welcomed its first
check-ins earlier this morning. [Photos by Sivan Askayo]-WALK THE WALK:
Ritz-Carlton staffers work the runway during a fashion show to present their new
hotel uniforms.-Israel. (map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 11, 2013 Monday

Gore a B'klyn bore

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 183 words


T he Bozo of Ozone has come. Former Vice President and current global-warming
zealot Al Gore came to Brooklyn's Powerhouse Arena Friday night to spin his
exaggerated fantasy of climate change. Gore, who raked in a reported $100
million by selling Current TV to al-Jazeera, was promoting his wildly
hypocritical new book, "The Future: Six Drivers of Global Change.''

Gore defended the tome on "Today," particularly the passage that reads,
"Virtually every news and political-commentary program on television'' is
"sponsored in part by oil, coal and gas companies.'' Wouldn't that include Gore,
who sold out to a media company owned by the oil-producing nation of Qatar?

Gore dodged the question, telling Matt Lauer he "disagreed'' with the criticism.
"And, by the way,'' he said, "[Al-Jazeera's] climate coverage has been far more
extensive and of high[er] quality than any of the [US] networks.''

Powerhouse charged $45 to $50 ($35 for students), including a signed $30 book
(you can get it unsigned for $17 on Amazon), to see Gore bloviate. Folks will
pay anything to hear a false idol.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday

Lab burger a hard cell Taste of the world's first test-tube patty

BYLINE: Leonard Greene

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 591 words


You want fries with that?

Two brave volunteers yesterday got a taste of the world's rarest hamburger, a
lab-created, stem-cell prototype that you won't find on any dollar menu.

Researchers in the Netherlands developed the first-ever "in vitro burger" with
the hope that such meats could help feed the world and fight climate change.

Now if they could only make it taste good.

"I would say it's close to meat," said Austrian nutritionist Hanni Ruetzler, one
of the volunteers who tasted the Frankenburger at its unveiling in London.

"I miss the salt and pepper."

Meat lovers might miss the sizzle on the grill, since this patty has little of
the fat of a Five Guys feast.

"It's a leanness to it," said the second taster, Josh Schonwald, a Chicago-based
journalist who shunned the bun and all the trimmings to concentrate on the beef.
"But the bite feels like a conventional hamburger."

The taste test, which came after five years of research, is a key step toward
making lab meat a culinary phenomenon, said Mark Post, whose team at Maastricht
University developed the burger.

Post and his university colleagues made the meat from the muscle cells of two
organic cows.

Scientists said the cells were extracted during a painless biopsy.

The cells were put into a nutrient solution to help them develop into muscle
tissue, growing into small strands of meat. It took nearly 20,000 strands to
make a single 5-ounce patty.

The $330,000 stem-cell project was funded by Google founder Sergey Brin, who
expressed concerns about the meat industry's treatment of animals.

"When you see how these cows are treated, it's certainly something I'm not
comfortable with," he said.

The initiative also has the endorsement of PETA.

"As long as there's anybody who's willing to kill a chicken, a cow or a pig to
make their meal, we are all for this," said Ingrid Newkirk, the president of the
animal-rights group.

"Instead of the millions and billions being slaughtered now, we could just clone
a few cells to make burgers or chops."

The burger was seasoned with salt, egg powder, breadcrumbs, red beet juice and
saffron. It was cooked in oil and butter.

Post said it was crucial that the burger "look, feel and taste like the real
thing."

The Food and Agriculture Organization predicts global meat consumption will
double by 2050 as more people in developing countries can afford it.

Raising animals destined for the dinner table takes up about 70 percent of all
agricultural land.

Stem-cell meat is unlikely to hit store shelves for another 20 years. It would
take that long to refine the technology, encourage other producers and
scientists to get involved, and overcome any regulatory issues, experts said

The Dutch researchers said the same techniques could be used to reproduce just
about any meat.

For now, the process is limited to processed meat because it is the easiest kind
to replicate. Processed, or minced, meat accounts for about half of the meat
market.

Post said it should be possible to make more complicated cuts in the future but
it would involve more advanced tissue-engineering techniques.

He said it might be possible to make a steak in about 20 years.

---

'Frankenburger'

* Cost: $330,000, funded by Google founder Sergey Brin

* Developer: Dutch researchers

* Grown from: Organic cow stem cells

* How long before it's in stores: 20 years

* Pros: Preserves land, fights climate change

* Cons: Expensive and time-c onsuming to develop

leonard.greene@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Where's the beef? Professor Mark Post shows the stem-cell burger during
yesterday's unveiling, where it garnered unenthusiastic reviews. [Reuters; EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

Isle oppose Andy! Astorino starts 'PR' campaign for run INSIDE ALBANY EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Fredric U. Dicker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 431 words


Newly re-elected Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino, a Republican, paid a
surprise visit to the all Democratic Somos El Futuro gathering of state
politicians in Puerto Rico last week, delivering an address in fluent Spanish
and impressing many who were there.

Gov. Cuomo, by contrast, skipped the event, disappointing many and reinforcing
his image as aloof from, and even contemptuous of, his fellow Democrats.

Astorino's visit wasn't by accident. The Post has learned that he told several
aides and key fund-raisers in recent weeks that if he won last week's election
by a comfortable margin, he would "seriously consider" challenging Cuomo next
year.

He won by a landslide in a heavily Democratic county within the critical New
York City media market, and challenging Cuomo is exactly what he said he is
considering in an expansive telephone interview with The Post from Puerto Rico.

"I am considering it right now. I have to consider it,'' declared Astorino. "New
York is hemorrhaging jobs, I think we just went from 49th to 50th in terms of a
bad business climate. We're going in the wrong direction.

"I feel New York is fundamentally out of balance right now with extraordinarily
high taxes, a terrible regulatory climate and an explosion of Medicaid and
pension costs that is really killing counties, local governments and school
districts. There have to be some fundamental changes going forward,'' he added.

Astorino has been working on developing a range of policy positions that would
be important in a statewide race for governor.

He said, for instance, that if he did become governor, he would move to create
thousands of private-sector jobs by approving "with proper restrictions''
drilling for natural gas - known as "fracking'' - in the economically
hard-pressed Southern Tier, something Cuomo, facing threats from radical
environmentalists, has refused to do for three years, despite promises that he
would.

Astorino did credit Cuomo with "baby steps'' to improve the state's economic
picture during his first year in office.

And he conceded that the governor, who is popular with all but upstate voters,
would be difficult to beat, saying, "He's certainly the prohibitive favorite.''

A key GOP source said Astorino, a media-savvy former radio broadcaster and
journalist, has been promised strong financial backing "by several financial
heavy hitters'' if he challenges Cuomo.

In last week's contest, Astorino defeated New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson with
56.5 percent of the vote in a 2-1 Democratic-leaning county.

fdicker@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 22, 2013 Friday

J.D. SHOOTS STRAIGHT [The Post's Exclusive Interview] MSG owner James Dolan
finally opens up about the Knicks, Rangers - and yes, even Isiah - for the first
time in 7 years THE POST'S EXCLUSIVE Q&A WITH JAMES DOLAN

BYLINE: and Mike Vaccaro (column)

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 104

LENGTH: 3738 words


You see him plenty. He is an active owner, he attends games, he lives and dies
with his teams the way you do and because he's the man who signs the checks, his
opinions occasionally become mandates, and sometimes controversies. You know
James Dolan is in the arena, in both the literal and the literary sense.

You rarely hear him. On occasion, he offers brief remarks at press conferences.
You can hear him sing, if you catch his band at a club. But it had been seven
years since he sat down for an on-the-record interview about the Knicks and
Rangers. He agreed to meet with The Post this week, inside a Madison Level suite
at the Garden.

The Knicks and Rangers boss understands he is a lightning rod for the people
that support his teams, that when things go wrong - and plenty has in the 15
years of his stewardship - you blame him. He gets it. And make no mistake, he is
the boss, and wants to be the boss, and says unequivocally: "On my watch, it is
my responsibility. All of it."

But before we begin, it may help to hear something he had to say about music,
his first love, a subject that not only fills his recreational hours but also
infuses much of how he feels about his day job, too. And may inform what his
expectations for his sporting teams are, and how he wishes they'd be achieved,
as well as anything:

"I don't play any solo stuff in my band," he said. "I CAN solo. I can play the
stuff and if you heard it you might think it's OK, pretty good. But the other
guitar players in my band - one of whom is my son [Aidan] - are much, much
better guitar players than I am. To put the best sound out there, they play the
solos."

Mike Vaccaro: We're inside Madison Square Garden, a place everyone knows you're
personally invested in, not only emotionally but also for $1 billion. With the
political movement to relocate it, will we still be sitting here in 10 years?

James Dolan: Yes, I think we'll be here. I think this building now - I'm
obviously prejudiced - but I've heard from other people who would know that this
is the best [arena] in the world. I've been traveling with the Eagles, I've seen
25 buildings the last four months, and nothing comes close to this. Some of them
are very nice but this is in a whole other category. Putting history aside, just
structurally, every seat in the building now, what the experience means. Even
the seats way up there (points to upper rows) have a nice, clear view to the
stage, have their own screen, it's a pleasant experience, walk out of your seats
into the upper concourse. You remember what it used to be like up there?

MV: Yes

JD: Now it's inviting. I do think it's the best building in the world in the
greatest city in the world. And why would you take that apart? We have to work
it out.

MV: So you think the political climate will be such in 10 years that it will be
worked out?

JD: It's a long time and we'll be paying, of course, close attention to it.
Moving this place would be like moving the Empire State Building.

MV: I'm sure you heard the chants that have already started to fire Mike
Woodson, which comes with the territory, naturally

JD: Yeah

MV: How patient will you be with him? He understood when he took the job the
expectations that go with it. Will you give him a long rope?

JD: I have a lot of confidence in Woodson, and one thing I can say about Mike is
he has the respect of all the players. They all respect him. And he treats them
fairly and relatively equally, and that's part of where the respect emanates
from. And those are hard things to get from a coach. When a coach loses a team
that's when a coach is kind of done.

MV: You've shown tolerance as an owner; [GM] Glen Sather had a lot of empty
years with the Rangers before he showed success. Do you feel you're more patient
than an average owner?

JD: I really don't compare myself with other owners. I'll bet you I'm more
patient than Mikhail [Prokhorov] is of his team. Mostly, I think it does not pay
to be impatient, because you destabilize your team. It's not like the players
don't want to win, it's not like the owner doesn't want to win; everybody wants
to win, so it's a question of: Can you get there? With Mike, I think he can get
us there. Mostly, I think Carmelo [Anthony] can get us there, and the other
players can get us there, they're going to have to jell and I think Mike can do
a lot to get that to happen. Because he has their respect.

MV: The Knicks started 18-5 last year and it didn't end the way you wanted it
to; at this point I assume you'd flip that script?

JD: You know what? I wouldn't take last year's team for this year's team,
because this year's team is more designed to be a playoff team, whereas last
year's team was 18-5 but look who was playing: we had Rasheed Wallace who was
doing everything for us, right? And we just started losing player after player
by the time we got to the playoffs that 18-5 team wasn't the team that was
playing in the playoffs. If they were I think we would've beaten Indiana.

MV: So this bad start

JD: It's going right according to plan (laughs)

MV: A few days before training camp you changed general managers; why do that so
close to the start of camp? Did something change from the start of summer to the
end?

JD: I didn't time it, per se, like that. I'm surprised other folks were
surprised about this. The general manager's work doesn't really occur at that
time of year. If you're going to change general managers that's probably the
right time to do it. The next available trade date is Dec. 15. You've just
finished free agency and all that. It's a lull period. The timing didn't really
have much to do with that. It was more about an initiative I have going on with
both teams that I hired McKinsey & Company [a Manhattan-based global management
consulting firm] for, because as I've gotten to look at both our organizations,
it's become apparent that we really need to reprocess both teams. We were using
a lot of - not old, but "classic" methods and now with technology, and what's
available to a team to help improve, I didn't think we were taking advantage of
those things.

MV: So in evaluating these business solutions you came to the conclusion Glen
Grunwald was lacking and Steve Mills a better fit?

JD: I hired McKinsey in the summer, and Glen is more of a "classic" GM, and he
just wasn't the guy to lead this initiative for the team, and it had to be
someone in that position who could do it because I wasn't going to do it. It
needed someone behind it, someone who understood it, and that just wasn't Glen's
forte. I think he was a good general manager, he's got a great eye for talent,
he knows basketball well, but the job description changed.

MV: I assume you don't read everything written about you, hear everything said
about you, don't spend time on message boards

JD: To be honest with you, Mike, I barely read the paper. There's just too much
written   unless Barry [Watkins, MSG's executive VP for communications and
administration] says, 'Here, read this  ' (laughs) If it's on the back page, I
obviously see it. And the thing is, whether it's positive or whether it's
negative, it's rarely insightful to me. My job is to know more than the writers.

MV: And you have sit-downs like this so infrequently

JD: When it comes to criticism I always think, OK, let's look back at which New
York sports owner was loved by the fans when they owned the team? Do you know
any?

MV: Well, people speak reverentially about George Steinbrenner

JD: But not when he was there   (laughs)

MV: Not until the end

JD: There you go.

MV: That said, fans have a visceral relationship with their teams, and a lot of
the vitriol is aimed at the owner.

JD: Look, it's all about wins and losses to the fans. They want to believe in
their team. They want to believe their team has a shot at the championship. I
think you, for example, understand the fan's perspective, why a fan is a fan.
They're very emotionally involved. And when things aren't going well they want
to understand what went wrong and, inevitably, who's to blame?

MV: The guy who writes the checks.

JD: Right. And in the end it's all my responsibility. And when they see a player
not playing well they wonder, "Why did we draft him?" or "Why did we trade for
him?" and "What was the thinking?" and "Well that was pretty dumb." And
eventually it gets to the point of, well, this isn't going to change unless
somebody changes it and that's when they look to the owner. Sometimes that isn't
emotionally satisfying for the fans and you get what you get.

MV: Do you think you're a good owner?

JD: Yeah. I do.

MV: Why?

JD: I think I watch out for my fans. I try to give them a good product. I care
for the teams. I'm emotionally involved and intellectually involved. I think an
owner needs to be present. When an owner is not present that's when things tend
to go awry. The players, the coaches, the fans know there's somebody in charge.
They may not like what I'm doing but it's much better than having nobody there.
Nobody there just leaves you in despair.

MV: Are you a good boss?

JD: The teams aren't much different than a lot of the other things I manage. If
you're the kind of person who likes your job, wants to continue to be better at
it, wants resources, wants to continue to put out a better and better product,
push the envelope, you're going to like working for me. If you're someone who
says, well, I've accomplished what I'm going to accomplish, I want to sit here
and do that, you're probably not going to be as happy with me.

MV: For Knicks fans there's one word that riles their passion more than any
other: Isiah.

JD: Amazing, isn't it?

MV: And you surely know the panic that ensues when a Glen Grunwald gets fired
and people wonder, "Is Isiah coming back?"

JD: I can't control what's in other people's minds. I can tell you that he's a
friend of mine. We speak, but not as often as we used to because he's really
involved in other things now. We'll message back and forth once in a while. We
used to talk a lot more often. He seems to be moving into another phase of his
life, he's not as basketball-centric, he's doing a lot of charity work, he got
his masters [in education, from Cal-Berkeley], he actually uses me to bounce
business ideas off of

MV: Do you still consult him, too, about basketball ideas?

JD: Not really. For Isiah, I don't know that he'll ever be able to work in New
York. I just don't know that he'll ever get a fair shake, going forward in New
York?

MV: Do you think that's unfair? He did lose a lot of games here.

JD: He lost a lot of games! OK. Do I think he deserves another shot? Yeah. It
just can't be here. And I think he's talented. I think he's particularly
talented at finding basketball talent. But I think he's probably dismayed at
this point. But I don't see him coming back to New York. I couldn't do that to
him, and I couldn't do that to the organization. He would probably do it as my
friend but I couldn't do it to him or his family. And you know what the press
would do here. We're interested in getting better and that situation would be
such a distraction that it would actually hinder our ability to get better.

MV: If you could take a mulligan on the $100 million Amar'e contract

JD: Nope.

MV: Because the first year was that important?

JD: We would not be where we are today without Amar'e. That summer, the summer
of "The Decision," there were a whole bunch of free agents, and the guys put
their thing together in Miami, and Amar'e agreed to come to the Knicks, gave us
a launch pad by which we could convince the other guys like Tyson [Chandler] to
come, and ultimately Carmelo to come play with us. Do I think Carmelo would have
come if we didn't have Amar'e? No, I don't think he would've. These free agents,
when you get to this level of player - the Carmelos, the LeBrons, the Durants -
the first thing they want before the money or anything else is to be on a
winning team. They've got to believe they have a shot.

MV: So does it sadden you to watch him in a diminished state?

JD: I still have hope. You cannot ask for a guy to be more dedicated, more
disciplined, than Amar'e. He does his rehab, he does his workouts, he does
everything, he's on it every day, and that's worth a lot, too. If there's
justice in this world, his knee will heal up to the point where he can play more
minutes and make the contribution he wants to make.

MV: A perfect irony - the Knicks' last truly great moment came at the L.A. Forum
when Bradley jumped into Reed's arms and they beat the Lakers for the '73 title.
And now you own that building.

JD: I'm having a good time with it. It's a significant move for the company;
other than splitting off Cablevision and the transformation of the Garden, the
most significant move we've made in 10 years, the company's expanding to the
west coast, focusing on growth, especially in the music and entertainment area.

MV: How important is music to you? Obviously you have the band [J.D. and the
Straight Shot], you've been trailing the Eagles, you've opened for them. How
much of that defines you?

JD: You are not what you own. Music is a big piece of who I am. I don't own
music. I create music, and I play it, but I do not own it. So if you want to get
to know me, you'll see music as a big piece of who I am.

MV: The Eagles come to you and say, "Come on up and play one song with us."
Which song do you pick?

JD: Whoa   I love so many Eagles songs

MV: That's the curveball question.

JD: They start off their show with a song called "Whatever Happened to Saturday
Night"   maybe because I haven't heard it as much as others but I love that
song. And it's just Glenn [Frey] and Don [Henley] sitting on amplifiers, playing
guitars and to me that's how I grew up playing music.

MV: You own the Garden now. But you were like a lot of kids who grew up around
here and took the train to the Garden

JD: The Old Garden, too.

MV: What does the building mean to you?

JD: I'm really proud of it right now. The money we put into it, this is a
building that deserves this kind of investment and it's a town that can
appreciate it and actually expects it. People here have a high bar. And this
place raises that bar.

MV: It does seem the Garden, as long as it has existed, has assumed a certain
amount of responsibility for reaction.

JD: You have to do things here which sometimes, financially, don't make sense,
in order to honor what the place is. Things like 12/12/12, even to the point
you're bringing in an act that you have to stretch in order to get them here.
You need to do all that to keep this place as iconic as it is now. So there'll
be more pictures on the wall. Hopefully we'll have some of basketball and hockey
teams, too. We're doing our best to do that.

MV: Concerts are easier to guarantee than basketball games.

JD: Which brings me to a point (laughs)

At this point, Dolan plays a snippet from his iPod of the recent concert at The
Cutting Room in NYC. About to play a song called "White Bird" by It's A
Beautiful Day. Dolan, on the tape, says, "Welcome everybody from the Rangers
game and thank you for bringing me a win. (applause) It's too bad you didn't
come to the basketball game. (groans) Actually next game - we will win the next
game, it's guaranteed."

That's it. How that turned into what showed up in the papers the next day

MV: Let's talk about the Rangers a little bit. Is there a line of succession in
place when Sather retires? Will he choose his replacement?

JD: Ultimately it's got to be my call but I have a tremendous amount of respect
for Glen and still feel very lucky to have him. He has a wealth of knowledge and
experience and I don't know if there's anyone else in the NHL that's better than
him, but he's got to be close to the top. His understanding of the game, his
understanding of what makes a great player, and also he's pulled off some trades
I looked at him and said, "How did you do that?" As long as he'd like to stay
I'd like to have him.

MV: A few years ago you took the mic at a postgame press conference and
proclaimed the Rangers were on the right track for the Cup. Do you still feel
that way?

JD: Yeah, I do. This is going to be an interesting year because we have a new
coach and a new system. I'm heartened by what I've seen, it looks like the team
is picking up on the coach's strategy looks like they're starting to jell,
[Rick] Nash is coming back [Tuesday], we'll see how that impacts the team. I
like what I see. So much of hockey is playoffs, just like basketball, we've made
the playoffs a bunch of times now but we haven't   the closest we came was
conference finals.

MV: While you've owned the Knicks and Rangers, the Yankees, Giants and Devils
have all won championships, the Mets have been to the World Series. What do you
feel when you see other teams' successes?

JD: I don't pay a lot of attention to the other sports. I've been here 15 years.
So much of it is, it's rare in a season when you see a team go through a season
and dominate and go all the way through to the end. You want to be in those
final four teams and then be hot, lucky, healthy   so the goal is to get there
and then get the rest of the way.

MV: It seemed as if John Tortorella was on the brink of perfect New York stardom
- no matter what, you had an opinion on him, good or bad. Are you sorry that
didn't work out?

JD: I miss John Tortorella. I'd visit Torts before a game and we would trade
barbs for 10 minutes, he'd tell me about his [lousy] cable TV service and I'd be
sitting there saying, "You can't clear the puck out of your zone, what the
hell's wrong with you?" and he'd strike back and then play the game and I miss
that. I'm developing a relationship with Alain [Vigneault] and he's also a good
guy, but Torts and I had a special relationship. It was fun for me. He banned me
from the locker room for a while, all in fun. I miss that.

MV: What are your impressions of Mikhail Prokhorov?

JD: I don't get to see him much but he clearly wants to win, which is a good
thing. He's the only guy paying more taxes than we are which is a club I
wouldn't necessarily want to be part of with him (laughs). I think he wants to
win, I know he wants to win, he wouldn't be putting the resources in that he is
otherwise. But, I mean, he's still my competitor. As a person I kind of know
him, I've had lunch with him but other than that I don't really know him well.

MV: One thing you share is that you've both expressed belief your teams can win
a title this year. Do you really believe the Knicks can or was that just a usual
declaration of high expectations?

JD: I think this team can win a championship.

MV: As presently constituted?

JD: I think there are a lot of teams that could win the championship this year.
I think the Clippers can win. Are they going to? I hope not. I hope we win the
championship. I think we have the pieces in place to do it. The skill level is
there but there's so much more to the game than that, and it's really in the
hands of the players. They have to believe in themselves, they have to put in
the work, the effort, the discipline, they have to listen to the coach, they
have to execute a strategy and put an effort in every game. And they have to get
themselves to be the best team they can be at the end of March. It's OK right
now not to be the best team you can be. Last year by the end of the year we were
struggling. I'd rather see it go the other way. I'm not happy, believe me, about
the record where it is now. But the warts that are showing up now are things you
can work on, things you can fix. Now you test the character of your team to see
if it's willing or able to do that, if the coach is able to do that, to make
those fixes. Can they win the championship? Yes. They definitely can win the
championship. There have been other championship teams that weren't nearly as
talented as this one. But they had something that this team needs to develop.

MV: There seems to be some question about the future of the Knicks City Dancers

JD: Now you know why my band doesn't play Madison Square Garden (laughs).

MV: How do you describe their status?

JD: When finishing the transformation we talked about all the other things we
could do to make this season great for New York. We looked at our in-game
experience for basketball and said "It's tired." So we went to a whole revamp
and part was the Knicks City Dancers. We've actually invested more money into
them, they're working on new routines, they'll be doing a lot more things that
relate to Broadway and, hopefully, relate to New York, but it won't be the old
cheerleader squad. Honestly, we watched it the last couple of seasons, the women
would go out there and they would perform and they wouldn't even get applause.
It just wasn't engaging of the fan base. They will now be engaging. And they're
all talented enough to do this so it's not a stretch for them. They're not
appearing as much right now but as they continue to work on their routines and
their choreography you'll see more and more of them. We try to get them in every
home game but they're going to miss some. But the in-game experience is what
we're looking at.

---

DOLAN ON THE KNICKS

ON MIKE WOODSON: "I have a lot of confidence in Woodson, and one thing I can say
about Mike is he has the respect of all the players.   When a coach loses a team
that's when a coach is kind of done."

ON AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: "We would not be where we are today without Amar'e. ... Do
I think Carmelo would have come if we didn't have Amar'e? No, I don't think he
would've."

ON ISIAH THOMAS: "I don't see him coming back to New York. I couldn't do that to
him, and I couldn't do that to the organization."

DOLAN UNPLUGGED

ON JOHN TORTORELLA: "I miss John Tortorella. I'd visit Torts before a game and
we would trade barbs for 10 minutes, he'd tell me about his [lousy] cable TV
service and I'd be sitting there saying, 'You can't clear the puck out of your
zone, what the hell's wrong with you?' and he'd strike back and then play the
game and I miss that."

ON THE FUTURE OF THE GARDEN: "Moving this place would be like moving the Empire
State Building."

ON MIKHAIL PROKHOROV: "I'll bet you I'm more patient than Mikhail is of his
team."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -James Dolan. [N.Y. Post: Charles Wenzelberg]-James Dolan with Mike
Woodson; Dolan with Amar'e Stoudemire; Isiah Thomas. [AP; Paul J. Bereswill;
N.Y. Post]-J.D. and the Straight Shot perform in New Orleans in May. [Getty
Images]-John Tortorella; Mikhail Prokhorov; Madison Square Garden. [Getty
Images; Neil Miller; Paul J. Bereswill]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday

THIS IS YOUR STAR SPEAKING Jon Hamm, Julia Roberts and Kevin Bacon are lending
their voices toTV commercials. Can you tell which one of them's talking?

BYLINE: and GREGORY E. MILLER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 680 words


No, you're not imagining it. The celebrity voices aren't in your head - they're
coming from that TV commercial shilling insurance policies, batteries or cars.
These days it seems like every 30 seconds another superstar, whether it be Jeff
Bridges for Duracell or Matt Damon for TD Ameritrade, is lending his or her
vocal cords to advertising.

Take John Corbett - the actor best known for "Northern Exposure" and "Sex and
the City" - who's now stumping for Walgreens.

Corbett, who had previously done enthusiastic voice work for Applebee's, was at
the top of advertising agency GSD&M's list of voice actors, thanks to his
approachable tone. It was a calculated plan to counter-program against common
beliefs that pharmacies are cold and clinical.

"If you're going to use a celebrity voice-over, you're borrowing the equity,"
explains Victor Camozzi, SVP and group creative director of GSD&M. "You're going
in there thinking, 'I've got 30 seconds and I want people to see my brand this
way. So who's a voice that already automatically brings that emotion to it?' "

Corbett was the perfect fit.

"He has a voice that is warm without going so far as to be saccharine or
syrupy," says Camozzi. "It's approachable without going so far as to seem too
casual, and there's a thoughtfulness without seeming aloof or ivory tower."

Jon Hamm is another actor who has become a hot ticket recently, voicing spots
for both Mercedes-Benz and American Airlines.

"He has a really strong voice that tells a story," says Vann Graves, an
executive creative director of McCann Erickson New York, which produced the
American spots. "Because we're going through a transformative phase, we wanted a
serious, thoughtful voice, but with a bit of wit as well."

Graves says that the instant recognizability for fans is key, and that the irony
that a "Mad Men" plot point had Don Draper chasing American Airlines was not
lost on them. "It does open the door for people wanting to listen a little
more," he says.

But for those in the advertising industry, not every celebrity voice-over makes
sense. For every perfect pairing, such as John Krasinski for warm, fuzzy
Esurance ads or Lisa Kudrow for real-talk, girl-talk Yoplait spots, there are
head-scratchers like the sardonic character actor Will Arnett for Bank of
America or the despondent Kevin Spacey for Lenscrafters.

Mike Byrne, partner and global creative director at noted ad agency Anomaly,
says that if the celebrity's connection to the product is fuzzy, it can feel
like an inauthentic payday. Case in point: Kevin Bacon for Buick.

"That's one where, not that I'm an accountant, but I'm not sure that brings a
whole lot of value," says Byrne. "Did the client and the agency sit down and
say, 'Hey, we really want Kevin Bacon.' 'Why?' 'I don't know, did you see
"Footloose"?' " (A rep for Buick says Bacon brings "a sense of humor, smile and
intelligence to the brand.")

Sometimes a celebrity, no matter how famous, can rub people the wrong way, as
possibly evidenced by Julia Roberts, who talks deductibles for Nationwide.

"Her voice alone is fine, but as a personality, she's a bit cold," says Byrne.
"And that's insurance, so that probably wouldn't have been my first choice."

Byrne concedes that that's not the case for some big names - when you're talking
A-list, sometimes you don't need a reason to cast.

"George Clooney is our modern-day Cary Grant," he says. "He's stand-up and I
trust him. He could talk about toilet paper, and I'd pay attention."

NAME THAT VOICE!

Match these celebrities to their recent voice-over adwork.

1. Morgan Freeman

2. Willem Defoe

3. Antonio Banderas

4. Zach Braff

5. Catherine Keener

6. David Duchovny

7. George Clooney

8. Denis Leary

9. Martin Sheen

10. Ty Burrell

11. Paul Giamatti

12. Tim Allen

A. Pedigree

B. Verizon FIOS

C. Visa

D. Chrysler

E. Trex

F. Campbell's

G . Fage Greek yogurt

H . Nasonex

I. Jeep

J. Liberty Mutual

K. PUR

L. Ford

Answer Key: 1) C, 2) G, 3) H, 4) K, 5) D, 6) A, 7) I,

8) L, 9) E, 10) B, 11) J, 12) F

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : JonHamm- or, rather,his voice-has become a hot commodity for
commercials, including ones for American Airlines. (NY Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 8, 2013 Friday

Greedy Lying Bastards

BYLINE: Kyle Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 216 words


I FEEL sorry for the global-warming alarmists: Their latest documentary is
called "Greedy Lying Bastards." What's next, "Big Oil Is Full of Meanies?"

With a droning mix of interviews with talking heads (some scientists, many
left-wing lobbyists and the like) and images of the kinds of horrific weather
events that have occurred forever, the documentary is a small, sad piece of
evidence that the alarmist movement is still stuck on step one of a long line of
argument: convincing the public that global warming is happening.

Interviewees and the film's dull narrator-director, Craig Scott Rosebraugh,
mouth absurdities: "We have to do something to stop emitting," says one talking
head, as if that were an option. There's a segment blaming George W. Bush (an
oldie but a goodie) and another claiming that Republican congressmen somehow
were able to "dismantle environmental regulations." No. You don't get to govern
from the House. Unable to reach an ideological foe on the phone, the director
says, "I guess he was too busy with world domination."

There was a time when the climate-change alarmist movement was like a guy with a
megaphone at your ear, but now it's more like a squirrel at your shoelaces.

Running time: 90 minutes. Rated PG-13 (profanity). At the Empire and the
Angelika.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

City 'cane' close to losing food supply

BYLINE: David Seifman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 178 words


As catastrophic as Hurricane Sandy was, had it struck nine hours earlier a large
part of the city's food supply could have washed away, city officials disclosed
yesterday.

"We got lucky with our food, in that the storm did not impact The Bronx the way
it did other parts of the city," said Seth Pinsky, head of a city task force
studying how to cope with future storms.

His reference was to the Hunts Point market, supplier of 60 percent of the
city's fresh produce, which was largely spared as Sandy slammed the Rockaways,
Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn to the south.

Mayor Bloomberg is issuing a report today on plans for protecting the city from
future devastating storms caused by climate change.

By mid-century, up to a quarter of the city's land area - home to 800,000
residents - is projected to be in the flood plain.

The number of 90-degree days could go from 18 a year to as many as 33 in about
10 years and 57 over the next 40 years.

"By the 2050s, New York could have as many 90-degree days as Birmingham, Ala.,
does today," said Pinsky.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 20, 2013 Tuesday

NYC is 8th in world flood risks

BYLINE: Andy Soltis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 206 words


New York is one of eight world cities at the highest risk of calamitous flooding
by 2050, according to a new British study.

The cost of coastal flooding will increase by nine times - from $6 billion a
year to more than $50 billion - by 2050 due to rising sea levels and other
factors, the University of Southampton researchers said.

If no major defensive steps are taken, the cost of repairing the flood damage
could top $1 trillion a year even under the best-case scenario, they said.

"There is a pressing need to start planning how to manage flood risk now," said
Robert Nicholls, a study co-author.

New York ranks eighth - and Miami is sixth - on the list of 136 coastal cities
with populations of 1 million or more that face the greatest loss by
mid-century, the authors said. Guangzhou, China is the most vulnerable.

Others in the top 20 are New Orleans, which was devastated by Hurricance
Katrina, Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla., and Boston, said the study published in the
journal Nature Climate Change.

The study assumes that average sea levels, due to melting ice sheets and other
factors, will rise eight to 16 inches by 2050.

The riskiest cities face the most potential damage to their populations and
economies.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

STARR REPORT

BYLINE: Michael Starr, TV Editor

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 447 words


The grandson of Art Carney is in the early stages of assembling what he hopes
will morph into a documentary commemorating his famous grandfather - who would
have turned 95 this Monday (Nov. 4).

Carney, who passed away in 2005, quietly won six Emmys and an Oscar ("Harry and
Tonto") in a legendary career spanning radio, TV, Broadway (the original Felix
Unger in "The Odd Couple") and movies - including his iconic TV partnership with
Jackie Gleason on "The Honeymooners," where Carney's goofy Ed Norton played off
Gleason's blustery Brooklyn bus driver, Ralph Kramden.

Carney's grandson, Topher Reifeiss and a friend, Marty Cole, began the project
around eight years ago by sitting down with Topher's grandmother, Jean Carney,
to talk about the early days of her relationship with Art and his budding
career, capturing her memories on camera. (Sadly, Jean passed away in October
2012; Topher's mom, Eileen, passed away four months later.) Reifeiss and Cole
eventually brought in another friend, Barry Hirschberg, and continued to
interview other Carney family members about Art - including actor Brian Carney,
Art's son, familiar to TV viewers as the boss in those Geico Gecko ads.

The hope now is to edit those interviews, along with Art's personal letters,
archival TV footage, etc. into a documentary about his life.

"After a very difficult year much of this footage, as you know, is now priceless
and I'd love to honor my grandfather, mother and grandmother by finally resuming
to tell a great story and make a great film," says Reifeiss.

'The Real' back in fall '14

Syndicated daytime talk show "The Real," which did well during a four-week
tryout last summer, will return - this time for a national launch in the fall of
2014.

The show, hosted by Tamar Braxton, Loni Love, Adrienne Bailon, Jeannie Mai and
Tamera Mowry-Housley, will air on 18 Fox stations, including Ch. 5 - and will
repeat on BET.

Executive-produced by SallyAnn Salsano ("Jersey Shore"), it will be taped in LA.

More bold-faced names: The voices of Nia Vardalos, Morgan Freeman, Olympia
Dukakis, Gloria Gaynor and others are featured in "Loukoumi And The Schoolyard
Bully," the latest book in Nick Katsoris' series.

Last, but not least . . .

1010 WINS has renewed Hampton Sheet editor-in-chief Joan Jedell's contract to
host her "Red Carpet Scoop" segments, airing every Thursday and Friday (2:28,
5:28 and 8:28 p.m.) . . . M. Sanjayan is the science correspondent for James
Cameron's upcoming Showtime series, "Years of Living Dangerously" (global
climate change) . . . Bryan Cranston narrates H2's new 10-part series, "Big
History" (of the universe), premiering Saturday (10 p.m.).

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Art Carney.-Jeannie Mai.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

Dupe-le agent EPA man faked working for the CIA

BYLINE: Andy Soltis

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 694 words


For more than 12 years, John C. Beale's bosses and his own wife believed he was
leading an adventurous double life - high-ranking bureaucrat and top-secret spy.

At his desk job, he was a senior policy adviser for the US Environmental
Protection Agency and a leading authority on climate change who coordinated with
the White House on global-warming issues.

At the same time, Beale convinced his superiors he was a CIA operative - for
which he was allowed to vanish for months at a time to carry out sensitive
missions, no questions asked.

But Beale had no connection at all to the CIA. He had never even been to CIA
headquarters, not far from his 4,100-square-foot Virginia town house.

Beale's stunning double-cross, which allowed him to collect nearly $1 million in
unearned wages and benefits, will cost him up to 37 months of freedom when he is
sentenced Wednesday in a Washington federal court.

Investigators - baffled by how long he got away with it - said Beale, a
65-year-old NYU grad with a master's degree from Princeton, was hired by the EPA
in 1989 after falsely claiming to have worked for former Sen. John Tunney
(D-Calif.).

In 2000, Beale started his second life: He notified his superiors he needed one
day off each week to work for the CIA. Over the next 12 years, he got the
equivalent of 2¹/  years off.

He didn't show up for work at the EPA for six months in 2008, telling officials
he was working on a multi-agency government project involving "candidate
security."

At another point, Beale told his superiors that he had to rush off to Pakistan
because the Taliban was torturing the CIA officer who had replaced him in one
assignment.

And he lived better than James Bond on an expense account:

n  He took a July 2008 trip to London for the EPA and ran up a hotel bill of
$5,659 for just five nights.

The maximum allowed for lodging is $354 a night - but the EPA paid the bill
because of what an inspector general's report called a lack of internal
controls.

n  He got first-class tickets on 70 percent of his flights. Two of his
first-class flights were less than two-hours long.

n  He billed the feds for six business trips to Los Angeles, from October 2005
to November 2009, at a cost of $5,094. But he was really just visiting family
members in Bakersfield.

n  All told, his 33 trips from 2003 to 2011 cost the government $266,683,
records show.

Naturally, he was given a bonus.

The EPA's human resources department discovered in July 2010 that Beale was
given a 25 percent "retention incentive" to keep him from going to another job.

That boosted his salary to $206,000 a year, more than the head of the EPA, Gina
McCarthy, and more than virtually every non-elected federal official.

Even after his September 2011 "retirement" party, which was attended by top
agency officials including ­McCarthy, he somehow managed to remain on the EPA
payroll.

McCarthy began an inquiry, but Beale didn't actually retire until April 2013, at
which point investigators were already on to him. He did no work at all for the
final 18 months he was paid.

"It's very apparent that there were significant failings within the EPA because
fraud to this extreme isn't by pure accident," said Sen. David Vitter (R-La.).

Beale pleaded guilty in September to scamming the government. Prosecutors are
seeking a jail term of at least 30 months.

Why did he do it?

Beale's attorney, John Kern, said in court papers that thanks to "the help of
his therapist," Beale "has come to recognize that, beyond the motive of greed,
his theft and deception were motivated by a highly destructive and dysfunctional
need to engage in excessively reckless, risky behavior."

With S.A. Miller in Washington

---

Lies John Beale told the Environmental Protection Agency:

HE SAID: He was working for the CIA for 2¹/  years while on the EPA's payroll.

THE TRUTH: He never worked for the CIA.

HE SAID: The CIA was stationing him in Pakistan.

THE TRUTH: He was hanging out at his home in Virginia.

HE SAID: He contracted malaria in Vietnam.

THE TRUTH: According to his military record, he never left the United States

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charade: John C. Beale, testifying before Congress as an EPA adviser,
fraudulently received $1 million by claiming to superiors he also was a CIA spy.
[C-Span]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

NOW HEAR THIS: MELO DIDN'T KNOW Bettor believe it - Basketball has yet to catch
on in London

BYLINE: and MIKE VACCARO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 705 words


LONDON - The man behind the window is generous to a fault.

"It is cold outside," he says. "Can I get you some coffee? Some tea?" I do not
want coffee. I do not want tea, or hot chocolate, or even a room-temperature
ale. I want to place a bet.

"I want to place a bet," I say.

"Well," he says. "You have come to the right place." I have indeed. I have come
to one of the 2,300 licensed betting offices of William Hill, one of the largest
legal bookmakers in the United Kingdom. This particular office is at 12
Buckingham Palace Road which, as the address hints, is no more than a corner
jump shot down the street from the royal residence.

Were she so inclined, the Queen herself could take the five-minute walk through
the palace gates and inside this blue door, and she could spread a few pounds
around on an array of sporting propositions - the Australian Open tennis
championships, for instance, or a Russian League hockey game between Neftekhimik
and Amur Khabarovsk. If she has a hunch on the team handball match scheduled for
today between Tunisia and Montenegro, she could let the shillings fly.

Harry Llewellyn is letting a few shillings fly.He has one eye focused on one TV,
where a greyhound named Severely Damaged is speeding his way around the far side
of the Crayford Park Dog Track, overtaking a hapless pooch named Unique Rock.
His other eye is lasered on the 3:05 turf handicap hurdle race from Lingfield
Park, where Killimore cottage is taking a similar stand against Current Climate.

"Bollocks!" Llewellyn shouts.

He had Unique Rock and Current Climate.

I turn my attention back to the helpful man behind the window.

I have 20 pounds burning a hole in my pocket, and I am not one for the horses or
the dogs, or for betting whether both teams will score in tonight's Premiership
match between Chelsea and Southampton, or an over-under of 41 2 for how many
tournaments Rory McIlroy will win in 2013.

"I'd like to bet the Knicks-Pistons game," I say.

"Football teams?" he asks.

"No. Basketball. They play Thursday at the O2 Arena." He stares at a cell phone.

"Hold on a second. I need to call someone." Consider this a grand payback for
the Yanks, we who have endured an endless array of soccer assaults through the
years.

Many of those invasions were beaten back or blissfully ignored, but soccer
finally has a foothold in the U.S., a growing fan base, kids who know the
Premier League teams every bit as much as they do the American League Central.

Now, we bring basketball to the Brits. Over the summer, the Olympic competition
was, as always, among the hottest tickets at the Games. England even fielded a
team, featuring Bulls star Luol Deng, and those games were filled with local
pride (and lots of blowouts). It takes time.

Think about where soccer was in the U.S. in, say, 1973," Deng said in July.

"That's about where basketball is here, now. Someday, maybe." So when the Knicks
arrive at the Four Seasons Hotel early yesterday morning, they could just as
easily be a traveling water polo team from Bulgaria checking into the Plaza. It
isn't that they aren't bothered, there's nobody around to bother them. In any
American city, the arrival of a prominent team attracts shutterbugs and
autograph hounds and a colorful cast of others.

Here? Carmelo Anthony and La La Vasquez check in like a couple of kids from
Dubuque at a Howard Johnson's. Same with Amar'e Stoudemire and his pregnant
wife. Same as Jason Kidd, who actually lingers in the lobby with his wife,
Porschla Coleman, before heading upstairs.

"Yeah," Mike Woodson, the Knicks coach, laughs a little later. "It's a little
different over here. And that's not necessarily a bad thing."

Back at the betting parlor in the shadow of the palace, Harry Llewellyn tears up
another betting slip. And the man behind the window has some good news.

"I can't take your bet today because we don't usually have point spreads here,"
he explains. "But we are trying to furnish one for you. If you come back
tomorrow, you'll be OK."

"I'll be in as soon as I can."

"No need to rush," he says. "So far you're the only one in the whole city who
wants in on this game. That probably won't change tomorrow." Someday, maybe.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRUE BRIT! KNICKS ARRIVE IN UK : Iman Shumpert and the Knicks started
the day on a plane (1) to London. Come evening, it was time to hit the town for
Amar'e' Stoudemire and wife (2), Carmelo Anthony and wife La La (3), and Marcus
Camby (4). Tomorrow, the Knicks face the Pistons at O2 Arena. (Getty Images; Tom
Hevezi; Mike Vaccaro; Tom Hevezi)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday

Help amid horrors Marine aid as Filipinos face new storm threat

BYLINE: Andy Soltis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 515 words


The first US Marines arrived to aid the typhoon-ravaged Philippines Monday and
were stunned by the devastation, even as the looming arrival of a new storm
threatened to compound the misery.

"I don't believe there is a single structure that is not destroyed or severely
damaged in some way," Marine Brig. Gen. Paul Kennedy said. "Every single
building, every single house."

He and about 90 other Marines flew into the flattened city of Tacloban on two
C-130 cargo planes and began unloading emergency supplies and surveying the
extent of Typhoon Haiyan's destruction.

Elsewhere, emergency workers found survivors scavenging for food and gagging on
the stench of hundreds of corpses.

Philippine President Benigno Aquino declared a national state of emergency and
deployed hundreds of soldiers to stop looters from rampaging through the city.

"It is terrifying here," a resident of Guiuan told Agence France-Presse. "There
are armed thieves going about. If they know that you have food stored away, they
will force their way into your house and rob you at gunpoint."

Many of the hundreds of thousands in the hardest-hit areas haven't eaten since
Friday.

"People are looting because they are hungry," said national police chief Alan
Purisima. "The supplies we placed on standby were also washed away by the
storm."

He said most of the police are missing or "affected" by the storm.

At one of the few relief centers in Tacloban, survivor Joan Lumbre-Wilson, 54,
pleaded for help.

"We want an organized, coordinated brigade to collect the dead bodies, bring
food and stop the looting," she said. "We want someone who will help. We are
emotionally drained and physically exhausted."

Forecasters said a new storm was about to hit the area.

Tropical depression Zoraida was expected to bring rains and possibly trigger
mudslides after it made landfall late Monday.

Officials feared that their estimate of up to 10,000 dead was far too
optimistic.

"We are certainly expecting the worst. As we get more and more access, we find
the tragedy of more and more people killed in this typhoon," a top UN
humanitarian official, John Ging, said.

UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos said local officials estimate 10,000 people
were killed in Tacloban alone. Several thousand remain missing elsewhere in
Leyte province and in Samar province.

The Philippine National Red Cross said people were not prepared for a storm
surge.

"Imagine America, which was prepared and very rich, still had a lot of
challenges at the time of Hurricane Katrina, but what we had was three times
more than what they received," said Executive Director Gwendolyn Pang.

The typhoon came up at UN climate talks in Warsaw, Poland.

Naderev Sano, the Philippines' envoy, wept as he described waiting for news from
relatives.

"In solidarity with my countrymen, who are struggling to find food back home . .
. I will now commence a voluntary fasting for the climate," said Sano, who urged
delegates to work toward "meaningful" change.

His appeal got a standing ovation.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Relief: Residents line up for supplies and treatment on Monday at the
city of Tacloban's airport, one of the area's few relief centers. [AP]-Blown
away: Only scattered homes and debris remain Monday in the city of Guiuan, where
Typhoon Haiyan made landfall and smashed the area with fierce winds and waves.
[AP]-Hungry: Storm survivors scramble for emergency supplies from a Philippine
military helicopter in the coastal city of Capiz on Monday. [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday

NELSON MANDELA: 1918-2013 Brooklyn HS to be named in his honor

BYLINE: Lia Eustachewich and Lisa Hagen

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 287 words


A new Brooklyn high school will be named after Nelson Mandela - and New Yorkers
who remember the freedom crusader's 1990 visit to the borough praised the
decision.

"I very much think it's a fitting tribute, and a great location," Vernard
Williams said of the planned school's grounds in Bedford-Stuyvesant - the same
campus where students eagerly welcomed the future South African president more
than two decades ago.

Mayor Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Dennis Walcott announced plans Friday for
the Nelson Mandela School for Social Justice, housed at Boys and Girls HS.

The Nobel Peace Prize winner died Thursday at age 95.

Williams, now 41, was an 18-year-old student at Brooklyn Tech when he was given
the honor of serving as the master of ceremonies for Mandela's visit. The
anti-apartheid hero had been released from prison just months earlier after
serving 27 years of a life sentence for political offenses.

"I've never seen that track-and-field area so packed. You couldn't see a blade
of green grass," said Williams, now an associate director at Alliance for
Climate Education teaching kids about climate change.

"When Mr. Mandela was about to speak, you could see students just running to the
high fences that surround the field just so they could get a glimpse."

"I always felt a sense of pride that the first place he went to before going to
City Hall was Boys and Girls High School in Brooklyn."

"As a young person, it was very inspiring to see someone giving back and
fighting for what he strongly believed in,'' Williams said. "It is something I
hold on to dearly. I'm very saddened by his passing."

The 400- to 500-student school is slated to open next September, Walcott said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 20, 2013 Sunday

100 THINGS TO DO IN NYC The Post's resident experts in food, style,
entertainment and more reveal our town's ultimate 'must' list

BYLINE: and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 7437 words


1. CHASE THE DRAGON AT THE CHINESE NEW YEAR PARADE

A cacophony of firecrackers, drumming and cheering fills the streets every
winter as the annual Chinese New Year parade winds its way through Chinatown on
Feb. 17. Wear some red (for good luck!), queue up on Grand Street near Sara D.
Roosevelt Park (where the parade ends and festival booths are set up) and take
in the procession of martial artists, lion and dragon dancers, and more.
Afterward, head to nearby Vanessa's Dumpling House for a scallion pancake and a
hearty helping of fried pork dumplings, a lucky New Year's food.

2. PICNIC UNDER THE CHERRY BLOSSOMS AT BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN

Pack a picnic, pop open a bottle of Champagne and plop down on the Cherry
Esplanade to enjoy the cherry blossoms in full regalia - a.k.a. Hanami - at
Brooklyn Botanic Garden every April. The monthlong season culminates in Sakura
Matsuri, a weekend-long festival filled with tea ceremonies, folk dancing, J-pop
performances and more.

3. GAZE IN WONDER AT MANHATTANHENGE

Future civilizations may uncover the original New York City street plan and
wonder at the cosmic significance of Manhattanhenge, the twice-a-year phenomenon
when the sun lines up perfectly with the city grid. For now, we'll chalk it up
to a lucky coincidence that bathes the oft-gray cityscape in dazzling sunlight.
In 2013, you can see it on May 31 and July 11, with the best views at 14th,
23rd, 34th, 42nd and 57th streets.

4. SKATE IN CENTRAL PARK AFTER A NEW SNOW

Sure, there are plenty of spots to fine-tune your figure eight - but few offer
the sweeping views seen from Central Park's Wollman Rink. A spin around the ice
affords views of the surrounding trees and greenery which, when just lightly
dusted with a coating of snow, create an ethereal winter wonderland - while the
juxtaposition of towering buildings such as the Essex House provides the perfect
urban backdrop. Warm up with a steaming cup of hot cocoa to cap off the wintry
experience.

5. SLED THE STAIRS NEAR BETHESDA FOUNTAIN

There's a ski resort right here in the center of Manhattan - it's just not open
very often, because it needs at least 2 feet of snow to be rideable. But next
time there's a blizzard, grab your gear and head to Central Park's Bethesda
Fountain to ski, sled or snowboard the stairways. Appreciative onlookers will
either cheer your graceful acrobatics or boo when you wimp out on the jump.
Finish up with an Eddie the Eagle-style face plant, and you'll bring down the
house.

6. SHARE SECRETS AT THE WHISPERING GALLERY IN GRAND CENTRAL

Pay a visit to the 2,000-square-foot, Guastavino-tiled whispering gallery,
located in front of the Oyster Bar. Stand in diagonal corners and whisper to
each other (the sound carries across the ceiling's arc). Then grab a chowder at
the Oyster Bar, a la Don Draper in "Mad Men."

7. SING KARAOKE AT CHINATOWN DIVE BAR WINNIE'S

Grab some pals, and head down to Bayard Street for some drunken karaoke at this
lovably scruffy Chinatown dive bar, where glee-club wannabes mingle alongside
ancient Asian men. Hit the stage for a buck a song - or simply catch the
singularly New York show from one of the battered banquettes.

8. JUMP INTO THE ATLANTIC OCEAN ON NEW YEAR'S DAY

Forget partying on New Year's Eve - the best way to ring it in is on New Year's
Day with a bracing swim. Each year, thousands of brave souls join the Coney
Island Polar Bear Club, which calls itself the "oldest winter bathing
organization" in the country and meets for weekly icy dips in the

Atlantic during the winter months. Water temps this year were around 45 degrees,
so don't forget to bring your wits - and warm clothes to change into afterward.

10. SING THE PRAISES OF SYLVIA'S GOSPEL BRUNCH

Even after 50 years in business, Sunday gospel brunch is still going strong at
historic Harlem mainstay Sylvia's - now an enduring NYC institution thanks to
the late, ultra-charismatic Sylvia Woods, and an inspiration for copycats all
over the city. Roberta Flack has been known to stop by on a Sunday - and was
even cajoled into singing a few impromptu tunes. The live music from 12:30 to 4
p.m. will ease your hangover with a matchless mix of heart and soul, including
two gospel singers, a pianist and a sax player.

11. DISCOVER THE LITTLE RED LIGHTHOUSE

It's out of the way, but whether by foot or bike, this gem tucked away under the
George Washington Bridge is a must for history buffs. Once the location of a
strategic travel route along the Hudson, it's one of the last remaining
lighthouses in NYC, standing 40 feet tall and offering a fascinating peek into
the city's treacherous past. Originally built in 1880 and decommissioned in
1947, mass protests saved it from demolition. It's now under the auspices of the
NYC Parks Department, which offers free tours and an opportunity to explore the
renovated structure on the second Saturday of every month from May to October.

12. BE A DAPPER FLAPPER AT THE JAZZ AGE FESTIVAL

New York might be known for always changing and moving forward, but sometimes
it's nice to embrace the past. You can do just that every June and August by
getting all gussied up in your best flapper frock, hopping on the ferry and
heading out to Governors Island for the annual Jazz Age Festival, one of the
splashiest, most decked-out Prohibition-theme bashes around. You'll spot vendors
with cloche hats, old-fashioned cars (the perfect backdrop for a photograph),
free-flowing gin and live music that can convince even the shyest wallflowers to
dance the Charleston.

13. HAVE HIGH TEA AT THE PLAZA

You don't have to be a rambunctious 6-year-old to enjoy the still-magical Palm
Court at the Plaza. Bring a kid - or just bring yourself - and marvel at the
majesty of the iconic room, with its marble columns, Versailles-like mirrors,
and especially the 1,800-square-foot stained-glass laylight. High tea doesn't
come cheap - $50 per person for "The New Yorker" special including sandwiches,
scones and pastries - but the elegance and timeless charm will help the padded
prices go down smoothly.

14. PLAY THE FLOOR PIANO AT FAO SCHWARZ

Penny Marshall, director of "Big," says:

"I had seen a piano like what we used in 'Big,' but it didn't play the right
notes. You couldn't play a real tune. So I went to the inventor and asked him if
he could make another one that could play simple tunes like 'Chopsticks.' I also
needed the keyboard made long enough for two people to dance on it." An updated
version of the piano is still available for duets in the store.

15. JEER THE AMATEURS AT THE APOLLO

The iconic Harlem venue remains the premier uptown spot to catch world-class
performances, but Amateur Night (every Wednesday between March and November) is
a chance to see tomorrow's stars today. Before Ne-Yo and Lauryn Hill became
platinum-selling music stars, they got their starts here by winning over the
historically hostile audience. But more than likely, you'll boo and jeer the
performers as they're escorted off the stage by the Sandman, which is part of
the fun of sitting in the seats that range from $20 to $32.

16. POSE LIKE THE 'FREEWHEELIN' BOB DYLAN

Call it the American equivalent of posing on Abbey Road: Make like the great
songwriter, and head down to Jones Street in the Village. Grab a pal, get close
and pose in the middle of the road - just like the singer and then-girlfriend,
Suze Rotolo, did one slushy day in early 1963 for the iconic cover of his second
album, "The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan." (If you can find a VW van to park on the
side, even better.)

17. PICNIC IN CENTRAL PARK'S SHAKESPEARE GARDEN

You can wait on line all day for a ticket to Shakespeare in the Park - or you
can bag the show entirely and still get that "God, I've arrived in NY" moment
while picnicking in Shakespeare's Garden. It's one of Central Park's
lesser-traveled places - just past the Delacorte Theater, in the shadow of
Belvedere Castle where, if you scamper up the stairs, you'll see the turtle
pond, Delacorte and the occasional raccoon.

18. TAKE THE NBC STUDIO TOUR

With interest in the inner workings of television at an all-time high, the NBC
Studio Tour gives fans the chance to look behind the scenes at shows like "SNL,"
plus the opportunity to read a news report off a prompter like the pros (you'll
even leave with a tape of your performance). And while it's not a guarantee,
sightings of SNLers have been known to happen.

19. SPEND AN EVENING AT THE TEMPLE OF DENDUR

You can feel far from the madding crowds Friday and Saturday nights at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art: Most people don't realize it's open until 9 p.m.,
with free entertainment and a fully stocked bar on the balcony. But there's no
more magical place than the Temple of Dendur: a moody edifice surrounded by a
reedy reflecting pool. Some say it's cursed (although it's never stopped
fashionistas from holding parties). But it's eerily beautiful, with windows on
Central Park, and you're caught between the ancient world and modern-day New
York City.

20. DON'T MISS THE DOUBLE-DECKER BUSES - AT RADIO CITY

Those dorky double-decker buses are never cool - except in the Christmas
Spectacular. During one of the show's most popular numbers, "New York at
Christmas," a platoon of Rockettes cruises through Midtown on a life-size
touristmobile. There's something ridiculously exciting about the mix of
old-school pizzazz and eye-popping high-tech projections. Plus anything that
makes you think of Midtown as a beautiful, near-magical land counts as a bona
fide season miracle.

21. CHEER ON THE BRONX BOMBERS WITH THE BLEACHER CREATURES

Forget the seats behind home plate or along the first and third baselines. For
the purest experience possible at Yankee Stadium, go deep into right field.
There, for anywhere between $12 to $20, you can become a part of the raucous
pinstripe-loving horde known as the "bleacher creatures." But come prepared so
you can participate in the timeless roll call chant, where you and the rest of
the creatures call out the name of every Yankee in the starting lineup.

22. TOUR THE ABANDONED OLD CITY HALL STATION

Rome has the ruins of the ancient Forum, Dublin has crumbling cathedrals and in
New York City, we have this old 6 train station. Decommissioned in 1945, it's
one of the jewels of the city underground rarely seen by human eyes, with ornate
archways, decorative ceramics, stained glass and even chandeliers. The
mid-February tour costs $40 (for Transit Museum members only).

23. GAZE AT FALL FOLIAGE ON CIRCLE LINE'S BEAR MOUNTAIN OKTOBERFEST CRUISE

You can raise a glass at any number of beer gardens in the city - but none
offers a boat trip up the Hudson first: You'll glide past the Cloisters and the
Palisades, and take in the deep hues of red, gold and orange foliage before
disembarking at Bear Mountain. There, you and fellow lederhosen- and
dirndle-clad guys and gals will hike past mini-

waterfalls and through the woods up to your destination, where you'll find peppy
German tunes, massive beer steins and bratwursts galore. After all that eating
and drinking, admire the foliage around nearby Hessian Lake before hopping
aboard for your return trip.

24. RIDE THE CYCLONE IN CONEY ISLAND

Years after the 85-year-old roller coaster opened, Charles Lindbergh reportedly
told Time magazine that riding the Cyclone was more thrilling than his first
solo flight across the Atlantic. These days you can find far bigger and faster
thrills at many an amusement park, but the old wooden coaster still packs a
bone-rattling punch, and its creaky age adds an element of danger as you plummet
down its 85-foot peak at 60 mph. Just make sure to get your Coney Island hot dog
after - not before - you ride it.

25. FIND THE HIDDEN DOOR TO OLD NEW YORK

On the southeast corner of Broadway and 42nd Street stands the former
Knickerbocker Hotel, a sumptuous Beaux-Arts palace built in 1906 by John Jacob
Astor and home to such famous New Yorkers as George M. Cohan and Enrico Caruso.
The exterior is now landmarked, and the interior has been torn up to create
garment-industry showrooms. There is, however, a last remnant of the old hotel
in the Times Square subway station, near the 42nd Street Shuttle platform - a
door that connected the station to the lobby, with "Knickerbocker" written in
brass lettering above. After you find it and snap the requisite photo, head to
the Algonquin - just about the last of the old Times Square/Broadway hotels -
and sip a dry martini in the newly refurbished lobby.

26. STROLL THE HIGH LINE AFTER A HEAVY RAIN

Yep, the High Line is awesome, as any of the tourists crowding it will tell you.
But to get some alone time with the artfully landscaped elevated park, try going
just after a heavy rain. Grab a cup of hot cocoa at Jacques Torres in nearby
Chelsea Market, and stroll down the parkway like it's your own private promenade
and you're an elegant stroller in a Seurat painting.

27. SIP COCKTAILS ON THE MET'S ROOFTOP

Why be stuck inside a museum when you can take in the view from the top? Every
summer, the Metropolitan Museum of Art hosts a rooftop installation - past
exhibits have included Tomás Saraceno's sculpture "Cloud City" - where you can
sip themed cocktails inspired by the artwork. Head over there at sunset, when
you can also treat your eyes to the skyline and panoramic views of Central Park.

28. DANCE WITH GYPSIES AT THE BULGARIAN BAR

Some call it Mehanata, some just the "Bulgarian Bar." One of the most reliably
raucous Saturday night dance parties in the city takes place in the basement of
this Lower East Side watering hole, which serves large Bulgarian beers and all
manner of global tunes. Pay 20 additional bucks to take a turn in their "ice
cage," which involves timed vodka-swilling and old Soviet uniform-wearing. Na
Zdorovie!

29. BE KING OF TIMES SQUARE

Every real New Yorker knows tourist-clogged Times Square is unbearable - that
is, unless you're taking in the sights from the big red stairs behind the TKTS
booth. Climb to the top, way beyond the Midtown madness of roving Naked Cowboys
and photo-soliciting Elmos, and look around you. Broadway's marquees are
blinking to life, the ball drop is dead ahead - and the most exciting city in
the world is at your feet. And yes, it's free.

30. HANG WITH QUESTLOVE AT 'LATE NIGHT WITH JIMMY FALLON'

No late-night show taping can offer what "Late Night With Jimmy Fallon" can: A
mini-concert by Fallon's in-house band, the Roots. Enjoy the tunes from the
audience seats, or go to FallonBandBench.com and fill out the information to sit
on Fallon's Band Bench, a free, special area for audience members to get up
close and personal with the Roots and the show's musical guest from the studio
floor.

31. SING LIKE A SWINGER IN GREENPOINT

Forget the standard karaoke backing tracks, and try scratching that rock-star
itch with a real musician at the Manhattan Inn. On Tuesdays, resident pianist
Joe McGinty (formerly of the Psychedelic Furs) tickles the ivories during the
now-famous Piano Karaoke night. It's not just for crooners or Elton John fans,
either. McGinty's songbook includes everything from Madonna to the Mamas and the
Papas, and much more besides.

32. KAYAK THE HUDSON

Tyra Banks says:

"Everyone thinks I'm crazy, because the Hudson has some unsavory bits, but I
love me some Hudson River. At one point, I was kayaking every morning to work
out. The interesting thing is in the winter, when it's snowing, you can still
kayak, and the water is actually warmer than the air. So people look at me like
I'm crazy, but when the water splashes on me, it almost feels bath-like."

33. DRINK WITH THE LOCALS AT RUBY'S

The Coney Island boardwalk's undergone a serious face-lift in the past year, but
Ruby's Bar & Grill hangs on like the tenacious old-timer it is (it's been open
since 1934). Belly up to the bar with the leathery locals or grab a table out
front, where you can soak up both the sun and the always-colorful freak show of
passersby. Go on Friday nights during the summer, and catch the fireworks show.

- Additional reporting by Jozen Cummings, Tim Donnelly, Larry Getlen, Hailey
Eber, Billy Heller, Barbara Hoffman, Doree Lewak, Johannah Masters, Hardeep
Phull, Jane Ridley, Michael Riedel, Carla Spartos, Sara Stewart and Elisabeth
Vincentelli

22 ways to entertain yourself in NYC

By LOU LUMENICK, HARDEEP PHULL and MICHAEL RIEDEL

1. WEEP TO "LA BOHÈME" AT THE MET

It's the perfect "starter" opera for people who think they don't like opera, and
Puccini's toast to young, thwarted love - this was the precursor to "Rent,"
after all - is never lusher than in Franco Zeffirelli's lavish production.
You'll laugh, you'll cry - and you'll even love intermission, when you can pop
for Champagne, ogle fellow opera-goers' gowns and the equally dramatic fountains
dancing across the Lincoln Center plaza. No need to memorize the text, either:
It's there in English (or German or Spanish) on the seat in front of you. But
young love, Puccini-style, needs no translation.

2. FREAK ON LINDA BLAIR'S HEAD AT THE MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE

Strolling through the huge selection of artifacts from the history of movies
will call up the history of your life. The Batman lunchbox! Elizabeth Taylor's
"Cleopatra" wig! And if you really want to make your head spin, check out the
dummy they used to fake Linda Blair's cranial 360 in "The Exorcist."

3. SCREEN A MIDNIGHT MOVIE AT THE IFC CENTER

A student-y crowd of fired-up cinephiles and its Greenwich Village location make
this one of the most attractive movie venues in town. (Take that, Film Forum!)
Plus, it offers a rotating selection of classic counterculture films, such as
"Taxi Driver" and "Fight Club." What's not to love?

4. CONTEMPLATE "EARLY SUNDAYMORNING" AT THE WHITNEY

No one saw New York quite the way Edward Hopper did, and no NYC gallery has as
much Hopper as the Whitney Museum of American Art. Granted, it doesn't have the
name recognition of the Met or MoMA, but it does have a first-rate collection of
America's best and brightest - including Hopper's "Early Sunday Morning" (above)
and other masterpieces of melancholy.

5. CATCH WYATT CENAC'S NIGHT TRAIN

Now that he's left "The Daily Show," ex-correspondent Wyatt Cenac hosts a Monday
night stand-up show with the funniest comics in the city. Upcoming guests
include Reggie Watts, Seth Herzog, and "Chappelle's Show" co-creator Neal
Brennan - but his sharp wit is reason enough to make the trek to Littlefield in
Gowanus.

6. ROCK OUT TO A SHOW AT BOWERY BALLROOM

It's not just NYC's best rock venue, it's one of the best in the world. The
sound is impeccable, the bookers bring in the best talent (like the Yeah Yeah
Yeahs, right) and unless you behave like a massive tool, the staff know how to
treat their patrons. For the best view, push yourself past the bottleneck at the
entrance, and walk to the left side of the room where the bands often stash
their gear.

7. TAKE THE CARNEGIE HALL STAGE (WITHOUT PRACTICING)

There are no bad seats in the world-famous hall, but the most breathtaking view
is with your back pressed against the stage, looking out at the jewelbox
balconies and private boxes. Built by native Scot Andrew Carnegie, it has
bagpipes on the proscenium arches. At intermission, tour the rest of the
theater, where photos of nearly everyone who's performed there - like The
Beatles - line the walls.

8. WAIT FOR A STAR BY THE STAGE DOOR

Unless you work as a paparazzo, you'll never have clearer intel about exactly
where a big movie star will be and when - like Scarlett Johansson, appearing in
"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" on Broadway now. And who knows? When you catch them at
the stage door, unlike on the street, they just might sign an autograph or
answer a question. It's celebrity interaction done right.

9. HAVE A COCKTAIL AT THE NITEHAWK CINEMA

The city's only theater where you can legally drink (and eat a gourmet dinner at
a table) while watching a flick is in this cozy art-house complex in
Williamsburg. Food and drink are themed to the movies being shown, and there are
special brunch screenings of revivals on weekends, sometimes with live pre-show
entertainment.

10. LISTEN TO THE NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC IN CENTRAL PARK

Our celebrated hometown orchestra is even more fun to hear al fresco (and free)
on summer nights when the musicians roll up their sleeves and tour the city's
parks. Top-line soloists and much-loved music, such as Tchaikovsky's "1812
Overture," are just part of the draw. Don't discount the heady effect of
spreading a blanket, picnicking under the stars and watching fireworks explode
after - and sometimes during - the Phil's finale.

11. CHANNEL YOUR INNER COWBOY AT RODEO BAR

Ever tried busting out your line-dance moves at the Mercury Lounge? We didn't
think so. As a rule, New York's not too country-friendly, which is why Hank
Williams lovers gravitate to the long-running East Side honky-tonk Rodeo Bar.
Grab one of their potent margaritas and catch whatever down-home band happens to
be taking the stage - Rodeo features free live music every night.

12. SEE A SHOW PROMOTED BY TODD P

If you long for the old days of nightclubbing, with indoor smoking and cheap
drinks, you need to seek out concert organizer Todd P. Over the last few years,
he's hosted artists like the Yeah Yeah Yeahs and Tanlines in loft apartments and
other out of the way venues (mainly in Brooklyn). He's not as prolific as he
used to be, but when a Todd P show is scheduled, it'll probably be like nothing
you've heard before.

13. TAKE A BACKSTAGE TOUR OF A BROADWAY SHOW

You think a Broadway musical is a complex undertaking? You should see what it
looks like behind the curtain! The sets weigh up to two tons, hydraulic lifts
can be found beneath the orchestra pit - and cute chorus girls scamper about!
But unless you know someone in the show, getting past the stage doorman isn't
going to happen. And yet twice a year - once in the fall, once in the spring -
Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS holds two-week-long fundraisers. For a $250
donation, the producers of "Wicked" offer backstage tours. So why not hitch a
ride on Glinda's bubble? It's one way to make your Broadway debut.

14. HAVE A PICKLEBACK AT BUSHWICK COUNTRY CLUB

It's impossible to tell who decided to pair a shot of whiskey with a shot of
pickle juice, but most lore traces its recent origins to bartenders at
Williamsburg's Bushwick Country Club. The combo has become a distinctly NYC
addition to bar culture, and this dive still does it best, pairing Old Crow with
the brine of McClure's pickles.

15. CHECK OUT A VINTAGE MOVIE PALACE...IN A CHURCH

Midtown's vintage movie palaces long ago met the wrecker's ball, except for
1930's magnificent Warner Hollywood, which has been home to the
non-denominational Times Square Church since 1989. No movies anymore, but Sunday
services provide ample opportunity to worship the ornate 1,603-seat auditorium
and three-story French baroque-style rotunda lobby.

16. FIND COLE PORTER'S SONG THE SHUBERT ARCHIVE

The Shubert Organization is the world's most powerful producing and
theater-owning company. Above the Lyceum Theater on West 45th Street is the
Shubert archive, filled with a century of Shubert letters and memorabilia. Among
the gems are Al Jolson's contracts Cole Porter's original scores. The archive is
open to scholars and students; visits are by appointment only.

17. WANDER THE SIX DISORIENTING FLOORS OF "SLEEP NO MORE"

The spooky "McKittrick Hotel" is full of some 100 meticulously art-directed
rooms with decor that appears to have been sourced from a haunted Brooklyn
thrift shop. Among them is a can't-miss rave room lit by strobe and populated by
bloody, topless witches and a naked man wearing a bull mask. Be judicious in
your exploration: To even partially understand the unfolding story requires
being in the right place and with the right performer at the right time.

18. VISIT "LITTLE ODESSA" IN BRIGHTON BEACH

Joan Rivers says:

"I adore Brighton Beach. I just love it. It's absolute madness. Everybody is
talking Russian. I went one time, a whole group of us, and we just walked the
boardwalk and watched everybody. You can also buy a hot purse. We once went to a
Russian nightclub there, which is so good, because all the ladies are 20 pounds
overweight and you feel great about yourself."

19. HIT THE FUNDAY PARTY AT GOLDBAR

Sundays are a drag, but they don't have to be. Stop by GoldBar for club partner
Jonny Lennon's (right) celeb-studded bashes. While most New Yorkers are plopped
in front of their TVs bemoaning the week to come, dance the day away with Rita
Ora, Lindsay Lohan and other peeps who don't care about the Monday blues.

20. CATCH A FLICK AT THE ZIEGFELD

There's no competition for the best place in town to see blockbusters. The best
projection and sound can be found at this 1969 homage to an old-time movie
palace, which is losing $1 million a year - so get there soon. There's not a bad
seat in the place, but the sweetest one is 15 rows back on the left-side aisle
in the center of the orchestra.

21. DANCE ON THE CATWALK AT WESTWAY

The former strip club right off the West Side Highway has been going strong in
its reincarnation as a late-night dance party den for hipsters and fashionistas.
While the stripper poles have been taken down, the dancers' catwalk still exists
in all its lit-up glory. Step up, and pop a move in homage to Westway's sexxxy
roots.

22. GET JAZZED WITH WOODY ALLEN AND THE EDDY DAVIS NEW ORLEANS JAZZ BAND

In between churning out a movie almost every year, Woody Allen still finds time
to indulge in his other passion: hot jazz. On Mondays, he plays a mean clarinet
for the benefit of dinner guests at the Carlyle Hotel. While it's not cheap
(table seatings are $145 per person), it's worth it just to see the reclusive
director so close up.

- Additional reporting by Tim Donnelly, Larry Getlen, Barbara Hoffman, Dana
Schuster, Kyle Smith, Sara Stewart and Reed Tucker

22 fashionable things to do in NYC

By ANAHITA MOUSSAVIAN and TIMOTHY MITCHELL

1. SPEND A DAY PLAYING WITH MERLIN

Merlin is a 1 1/2-year-old English angora bunny who lives in the NoLIta boutique
Condor. Fluffy and friendly, he roams freely throughout the store, having built
a following with loyal customers, who often drop by with bananas, carrots and
kale! And while you can't take him home, you can score goods such as We Are
Handsome swimwear, Pendleton blankets and always-hip Linda Farrow sunglasses.

2. ORDER A CUSTOM SHOE FROM MANOLO BLAHNIK

Nothing beats a designer shoe - other than a designer shoe custom-made for you.
Shoe god Manolo Blahnik is on the case, and for a 20 percent special-order fee,
shoe-a-holics can build a personalized version, choosing features like the heel
height and shape, colors, and even the materials. (The latter two can be chosen
from a swatch book.) After a three-to four-month wait, it's a dream come shoe.

3. SHOP TILL YOU DROP AT FASHION'S NIGHT OUT

Fashion's biggest shopping night means big sales, free gifts with purchase and
sometimes even free-flowing bubbly. Last year's highlights at the September
extravaganza included Alexa Chung DJ-ing at Moschino, a karaoke contest judged
by Michael Kors and "Girls" star Allison Williams hosting a cocktail fête at
DVF. The possibilities of elbow-rubbing with your favorite fashion star - while
on the hunt for the perfect red lipstick - are endless.

4. HAVE BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S

If you've seen the movie, you know the drill. Take a cue from the 1961 classic,
and work your inner socialite at sunrise while decked out in your most glamorous
black dress, pearls and Oliver Goldsmith shades. Tiara, croissants and coffee a
must. Go on, get your Audrey on. Then Instagram your morning triumph.

5. HAVE YOUR HAIR COLORED BY RITA HAZAN

With over a decade of experience, a client list that includes big names like
Katy Perry and Jennifer Lopez, and top notch hair products, you can't go wrong
with this luxe Midtown salon, which will give you a basic color for $110. Better
yet, you can actually make an appointment with Rita and get that full service
attention just like the celebrities do, starting at $250.

6. GET A MASSAGE AT THE CARLYLE

Sure you can go home after a long day and sip a glass of wine or pop into a
Brookstone to sneak a chair massage for some relaxation - or you can treat
yourself to a Signature Massage at Sense Spa at The Carlyle. From an exclusive
Sisley rubdown with aromatic breathing exercises set to a shiatsu ritual, you'll
probably feel relaxed by just reading this.

7. BRAVE THE BARNEYSWAREHOUSE SALE

If you're going to battle for fashion, why not do it for the bragging rights of
having paid next to nothing for stilettos that were once wildly overpriced? Hit
Barneys on the very last day of their famous annual sale in Fall (last year it
closed on September 4) and Spring (when it closed March 4), and be sure to come
out with at least one prize possession and a scratch or two.

8. TRY ON JEWELRY AT HENRI BENDEL

If serious costume jewelry is your thing, Bendel's offers eye candy galore. With
elaborately styled selections of gems, handbags and sunglasses, fashionistas
will be hard-pressed to zero in on a favorite. (We recommend you head to the
second floor, where pretty things from Pamela Love, Shourouk and Tom Binns
await.) For the girl with a headpiece fetish: There's an entire room devoted to
flower crowns, feather fascinators and crystal-encrusted tiaras.

9. GET YOUR NAILS DONE AT JIN SOON

Every NYC girl needs a perfect manicure, and, with multiple locations and her
own line of polishes, Jin Soon Choi offers just that. Working regularly with top
fashion magazines (Vogue and InStyle) designers (Prabal Gurung and Oscar de la
Renta) and celebrity clients (Anne Hathaway and Beyoncé), Jin has her finger on
the pulse of the latest nail art. We adore her signature shape: squared off with
rounded edges. Super stylish from just $18.

10. DO SERIOUS SOLE SEARCHING AT BERGDORF'S

The second-floor shoe salon at Bergdorf Goodman is what a shoe fiend imagines
when she thinks of heaven: rows upon rows of beautifully designed shoes that
literally shine, partly due to the overwhelming selection of
Swarovski-embellished Christian Louboutins. With an army of helpful salespeople
standing by, the salon is fully stocked with off-the-runway - read: impossible
to find - styles from Prada, Dries van Noten, Miu Miu and more.

11. GO ON A SPREE AT PAS DE DEUX

Pas de Deux is the epitome of an East Village gem. Though it's itty-bitty in
size, it maximizes its stock of stylish must-haves. It's easy to get lost in
tightly edited racks with wares from Carven, Richard Chai Love and Boy by Band
of Outsiders. Don't overlook the amazing shoe selection, either. Those Isabel
Marant Bobby sneakers? Snag a pair before they're gone.

12. GET A FACIAL AT THE WALDORF

The city's ultimate indulgence is the Orchidée Impériale Prestige Facial at the
Guerlain Spa inside the Waldorf Astoria Towers. Using three different masks and
massage techniques, the 140-minute customized facial is the ultimate treat for
your face, not to mention mind. A big plus: all the extra little luxuries, from
choosing your favorite drink to sip on (Champagne, anyone?) to having your shoes
shined or clothing pressed: It's all included in the $475 tab.

13. LOUNGE IN ALEXANDER WANG'S FOX-FUR HAMMOCK

Carrie Bradshaw once referred to shopping as her "cardio." Had the Alexander
Wang boutique existed during her heyday (it opened in 2011), New York City's
most ubiquitous fashion gal most certainly would've kicked up her high heels and
cooled down at the store's foxy hammock.

14. GET RETRO AT RESURRECTION

For hard-core vintage hunters, Resurrection is the promised land. Since opening
its doors in 1996, founders Katy Rodriguez and Mark Haddawy - who specialize in
luxury ready-to-wear and accessories from 1960 to 1980 - have mastered the art
of immaculate presentation. On the hunt for collectibles from Hermès and Dolce &
Gabbana? Take your pick. Die-hard Chanel-ites are sure to score, as the boutique
carries a most impressive collection. A Chanel purse as necklace? Yes, please!

15. HIRE A PERSONAL SHOPPING ASSISTANT AT BLOOMINGDALE'S

If you're feeling fancy - and you really don't want to sort through all those
racks of blue jeans - why not? Bloomie's offers personal shoppers for her and
him at the 59th Street flagship, like Ivy Booksin (left). They'll handle
everything from pre-selecting goods to peruse (in a private setting) to
gift-wrapping. It's the ultimate shopping shortcut; and complimentary, to boot.

MEN'S STYLE

16. GET A STREET SHOESHINE FROM DON WARD

When you imagine a brash New Yorker drumming up business on a sidewalk, Don Ward
is the guy in your dreams. Right on the corner of Sixth Avenue and 47th Street,
he's a constant stream of conversation, come-ons and outright bluster. "If you
want to save money, go to Geico. If you want to save your shoes, get on the
chair!" It's the best deal in NYC: a shoe shine and a show for just three bucks.

17. HAVE A STYLE CONSULTATION WITH JIMMY AT TRASH & VAUDEVILLE

Jimmy Webb is an East Village legend - he's been on the sales team here since
1998 - and has many an honest opinion on everything from biker jackets to
studded combat boots. Stop by Trash to channel the spirit of rebellious youth.
(Or at least look like you do. On the weekend.)

18. GET FITTED FOR A CUSTOM SHIRT AT 20 PEACOCKS

You'll feel like a properly primped gent when you handpick everything, right
down to the thread color, at this Lower East Side boutique. Custom-cut shirts
start at $95; matching tie and pocket square optional.

19. BUY AN NYC MAN BAG

Whether it's a new school satchel or boyish backpack, schlepping around the city
with too much stuff has never looked better. Try Jack Spade on Bleecker Street
for carryalls to keep your cellphones, tablets and Knicks tickets safe and
sound. You know the thrill women get when buying a handbag? This is the dude
version.

20. GET YOURSELF A BESPOKE SUIT

Fitted in-store and fine-tuned in Asia (to keep the cost low), suits tailored at
Michael Andrews Bespoke in NoLIta feature fine materials and craftsmanship for a
sartorial steal. Prices start at $995.

21. TAKE A SCHVITZ AT THE RUSSIAN & TURKISH BATHS

Russell Simmons says:

"I've brought everybody here, from Puffy to Walter Yetnikoff, who used to run
Columbia. I took [ex-wife] Kimora [Lee Simmons] there when we first started
dating. She thought it was dirty and never went back. I've taken other dates
there. Some like it. Probably the girls who like yoga would be OK in the
bathhouse. I took Puffy, and he got addicted."

22. FIND THE PERFECT PAIR OF JEANS AT BROOKLYN DENIM CO.

This specialty shop in Williamsburg boasts 20-plus denim brands and a
friendly-but-not-too-friendly staff that knows not everyone was made to squeeze
into skinny jeans. -Additional reporting by Johannah Masters

23 must-try NYC dishes & drinks

By STEVE CUOZZO and CARLA SPARTOS

1. DIG INTO THE BLACK LABEL BURGER AT MINETTA TAVERN

Its intensity derives from a pricey rib-eye blend (details secret) that's
dry-aged to concentrate the blood-and-mineral flavor. Liberal application of
clarified butter throughout the cooking process makes it, well, buttery - in
both taste and mouthfeel, the latter enhanced by crusting applied on the
griddle. I've had hundreds of burgers hyped as the greatest. After this one, I
accept no substitutes.

2. PUT AWAY "VOLCANIC" TOM YUM AT JAIYA THAI AND JAIYA NEW YORK

No Thai place I know does the classic hot lemongrass soup like Jaiya's two
locations in trend-proof Kips Bay and Yorkville. Cooked by actual Thai chefs
(unlike at certain overhyped places), it's fired up at the table in a
butane-flame pot. It owes its near-scarlet color to rare chili paste flown in
from Thailand - which ought to warn you. It's rich with kaffir lime leaf and
galangal - and scorching. And the shrimp! Not the industrial-grade article that
clutters a million bowls around town, but plump, sweet prawns. A cup or two
should clear any sinus blockage. Order it more than medium-hot at your peril.

3. POLISH OFF FUSILLI WITH OCTOPUS AND BONE MARROW AT MAREA

This short-cut, durum wheat fusili is the ideal shape to bear the sensuous
near-liquefied marrow and basil-infused tomato sauce that drenches Michael
White's most famous dish.

4. CHOW ON CHILLED NOODLES WITH SPICY SESAME VINAIGRETTE AT WU LIANG YE

The item was standard in New York's golden age of Sichuanese cuisine, which
ended 30 years ago. In name, it still pops up on a million Chinese menus but few
places do it right, and none better than this chandeliered, Chinatown-like
refuge up a long stoop at Rockefeller Center's doorstep. The noodles are long,
thin and toothsome. The sauce is oily, not pasty like imitations. (I once
stumbled on a peanut butter variation!) The vinaigrette is fiery enough to snap
you out of any 4 p.m. funk. But note: there's nothing wrong with the water or
beer. The dish's blend of chili and black wine vinegar is playing with your
palate.

5. SAMPLE EVERY MACARON AT LADURÉE

Small but mighty, these double-decker treats keep customers waiting in a line
that trails out of the French pastry maker's Upper East Side store. Sample all
18 flavors - the most popular are pistachio, salted caramel and chocolate - and
be sure to catch January's flavor of the month: the Santo Domingo pure chocolate
caters to the ultimate chocolate lover. - A.M.

6. FEAST UPON A WHOLE ROASTED CHICKEN AT NOMAD

It's famous. It's expensive: $79 for two. With good reason on both counts. Black
truffles and foie gras are insinuated between skin basted to a shocking golden
brown and the breast below. The latter must be the deepest-flavored white meat
since the age of James Beard's "old barnyard chicken." Dark meat served in a
small cocotte is seasonally embellished.

7. TUCK INTO ROASTED BRANZINO AT TALDE

Park Slope eatery Talde's Vietnamese-style branzino, said to be based on a
"famous dish of Cha Ca La Vong" in Hanoi, makes the overworked bass variety new.
It comes with the head on and is elevated to glory by a many-splendored jam
incorporating tomato, turmeric, mustard seed, cardamom, coriander, ginger and
garlic.

8. DINE ON CRISPY BLACK BASS AT LE BERNARDIN

Eric Ripert's menu is in constant flux. Black bass appears frequently in the
"lightly cooked" category, but in myriad guises - right now, with Peruvian
chicha sauce, shishito peppers and acorn squash ceviche. But the version that
floated my boat was served in deep, dark, slightly sweet-and-sour black/garlic
Persian lime broth lightened with a hint of pomegranate. Each element cast every
other, and the fish itself, into the boldest relief.

9. GRAB A SLICE AT DIFARA

You'll have to trek out to Midwood, the line will be long, and you'll pay
upwards of $5 for a slice despite the ramshackle atmosphere. Still, DiFara is
worth it. Seventy-six-year-old Domenico DeMarco finishes each pie with a drizzle
of olive oil and fresh-cut basil as he has for 48 years. The ingredients are
imported from Italy, from the three different kinds of cheese to the ultrafine
00 flour. - H.E.

10. CUT INTO TAWA MACHLI AT TAMARIND TRIBECA

This and the original Tamarind in Flatiron are the rare Indian places that don't
overcook seafood or drown them in clichés. My favorite is a generous cut of
halibut filet, pan-seared and set ablaze by a rub including black pepper, red
chili flakes and coarse-grain mustard.

11. TUCK INTO HARIRA SOUP AT BOULUD SUD

The classic North African lentil-and tomato brew is as refined as it is
persuasively Moroccan at Daniel Boulud's Mediterranean-inspired companion piece
to Bar Boulud around the corner near Lincoln Center. The bowl arrives brimming
with spices, herbs and vermicelli chickpeas. Anchored by luscious lamb
meatballs, it's preposterously satisfying for a $15 appetizer. Boulud Sud's menu
is always evolving, which makes me nervous. Please, leave the harira soup right
where it is - and just as it is.

12. NOSH ON UOVA STRAPAZZATE AT A VOCE COLUMBUS

Meet the city's cheapest luxury dish: scrambled eggs whipped to a supernatural
softness with mascarpone cheese and crowned with fresh black truffles. ($18, now
available only at brunch). It's the sleeper on Missy Robbins' Italian menu; few
customers seem to order it. They don't know what they're missing. Almost
unbearably sensuous, these are the eggs I expect in heaven.

13. SCARF A SECRET MEAL AT BURGER JOINT

Le Parker Meridien is as classy as a hotel gets, but behind a velvet curtain
lies a low-rent surprise: a burger joint (actually called Burger Joint) that
grills up some of the best patties in town. Add a shake, fries and pickles, and
you'll never eat anywhere else on 57th Street. - I.G.

14. EAT A STEAK AT PETER LUGER

Head for the shadow of the Williamsburg Bridge, take a seat at a worn wooden
table and order a porterhouse, rare to medium rare, with hashbrowns and creamed
spinach that could inspire poetry, and probably has. There's no better beef on
the planet, and no better place to eat steak than the wood-paneled dining room
that has lured carnivores since 1887. - C.E.

15. HAVE A FOUR-STAR MEAL FOR LUNCH

Two reasons to cut out of work and treat yourself to a luxe lunch: It's cheaper.
Bouley, for example, offers five dazzling courses for just $50. At night, that
jumps to $175 for six courses. Eat the way only CEOs usually do with delicate
dishes such as porcini flan and Kobe beef cheeks with blue-kale gnocchi. Nothing
feels more decadent. - R.T.

16. DEVOUR A FRRROZEN HOT CHOCOLATE AT SERENDIPITY 3

This mind-bogglingly rich, cool treat has been often imitated but never improved
upon, and it tastes even better when preceded by a footlong dog. The Tiffany
lamps and kitsch-filled atmosphere of the East 60th Street dessert palace add to
the fun, as do the novelty gifts you can buy on the way out. - F.S.

17. HAVE BROOKLYN'S BEST LOBSTER ROLLAND KEY LIME PIE

The Red Hook Lobster Pound is so un-fancy you'll swear you're in Maine territory
as you chow down on your buttery lobster roll. They're shut post-Sandy but are
working to get up and running again soon. For dessert, take a stroll down the
pretty cobblestone streets to Steve's Authentic Key Lime Pies. - S.S.

18. HAVE CLAMS AT THE REEF

Mayor Michael Bloomberg says:

"[City Island] is even better than a New England fishing village. I used to
drive my kids to Johnny's Reef Restaurant, which is all the way out on the
point. We would order baskets of fried clams and eat them outside on the picnic
tables overlooking the water. I still go when I can. It's a great escape without
leaving the city."

19. SLUM IT AT RUDY'S

Eat a free hot dog and live to tell about it at one of the last remaining Hell's
Kitchen dive bars, Rudy's, where regulars still get their social security checks
delivered. Look for the big pink pig outside. - C.S.

TO-DIE-FOR DRINKS

20. SWIG A RED SNAPPER AT THE ST. REGIS

The world's best Bloody Mary - a k a the Red Snapper - is served here at the Old
King Cole bar. The famed cocktail was invented here by barman Fernand Petiot in
1934. Ultra-smooth.

21. OPEN THE ANONYMOUS OAK DOORS AT BAR CENTRALE

It doesn't look like more than a brownstone stoop on Theater Row, but Bar
Centrale is where Broadway movers and shakers cut deals and talk shop. Plus, its
Sidecar is considered the best in town. Book ahead or it won't matter whether
you can find the doors.

22. ASK FOR A BARTENDER'S CHOICE AT LITTLE BRANCH

So fancy cocktail speakeasies might not be anything new, but that doesn't mean
there aren't surprises to be had. The West Village's Little Branch still keeps
some of its mystery, especially when you stick to ordering the "bartender's
choice." Name your preference (sweet, spicy, flavored liquor, etc.) and prepare
to have your palate wowed.

23. SNEAK INTO ANGEL'S SHARE

The city's original hidden cocktail mecca is tucked away on the second floor of
an East Village Japanese restaurant. The murals, low lights and perfectly mixed
drinks make it perfect for a tryst with a twist.

- Additional reporting by Chris Erikson, Isaac Guzman, Sara Stewart, Hailey
Eber, Frank Scheck, Reed Tucker and Anahita Moussavian

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 28, 2013 Monday

'Wall ST.' flees NY for tax-free Fla.

BYLINE: Josh Margolin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 594 words


'There's no need to drag people down here. It's a zero-income-tax jurisdiction.'
- Thalius Hecksher (right), global development chief for Apex Fund Services, who
joined the crowd in the finance  industry and relocated operations to Florida

The city's hedge-fund executives are flying south - and it's not for vacation.

An increasing number of financial firms, especially private equity and hedge
funds, are fed up with New York's sky-high city and state tax rates and are
relocating to the business-friendly climate in Florida's Palm Beach County.

And they're being welcomed with open arms - officials in Palm Beach recently
opened an entire office dedicated to luring finance hot shots down south.

"Florida is a state of choice," said Thalius Hecksher, global development chief
for Apex Fund Services, who moved many of his operations to Palm Beach. "It's
organically grown. There's no need to drag people down here. It's a
zero-income-tax jurisdiction."

There are other perks, too - like the fact that it was 77 degrees and sunny
there yesterday.

"And the lifestyle!" Hecksher added.

Federal tax rates are the same in Florida and New York.

But there's no state income tax in the Sunshine State. Compare that to New York,
where the state and local governments took $14.71 of every $100 earned in 2010,
according to state records.

The only state with a higher rate is Alaska.

That's a substantial difference in bottom line for those who stand to make
millions of dollars a year in income.

Also, commercial property values are much cheaper in Florida, and New York City
will likely become even less friendly to businesses when Mayor Bloomberg leaves
office next year, hedge-fund executives said.

"You weigh all of the benefits for being here to those in New York, and they
outweigh them every time," said Evan Rapoport, CEO of HedgeCo.net, which is
expanding its presence in Palm Beach County.

"This fiscal-cliff issue, with tax rates continuing to go up. We're seeing where
we're going with taxes," he said.

"In our industry, the people we're talking about are $1 million-a-year earners.
So when you're talking about tax rates, it's more meaningful."

"Then," he said, echoing Hecksher, "there's the lifestyle issue."

The demand is so high that officials in Palm Beach County have set up an entire
office to answer questions from city hedge-funders looking to relocate.

"We're not doing a multimillion-dollar marketing campaign. We don't need to,"
said Kelly Smallridge, who heads the Palm Beach County Business Development
Board, which set up the special unit to handle inquiries and marketing.

"They're coming to us."

Without warning, Smallridge said, her organization only recently started getting
inundated with hedge-funders.

"The door was open because of the high-tax environment" in the New York area,
Smallridge said.

"Smaller companies were moving completely out. Larger ones, looking for
expansion opportunities, wanted to expand here," she said while touting her
group's "free and confidential" consulting services.

The firms can easily pick up and move out of the New York region because
technology allows them to do their work anywhere, she said.

That's exactly what Hecksher - whose company services hedge funds around the
world - did when he was looking to expand the firm's US presence.

New Jersey-based Apex, he said, could easily have chosen Manhattan or Greenwich,
Conn. - but instead, the company followed the industry to the tax-friendly
Sunshine State.

josh.margolin@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ship out! Relocated finance exec Thalius Hecksher enjoys warm Fort
Lauderdale yesterday - and he loves Florida's lack of income tax, too. [Larry
Marano]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 21, 2013 Friday

Diddy takes back advertising 'hate' PAGE SIX

BYLINE: and EMILY SMITH at CANNES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 634 words


Sean "Diddy" Combs had some explaining to do after telling the world's
advertising elite, "I hate watching commercials just like anybody else." The
producer, fashion and Ciroc mogul was perhaps a little too outspoken when he
took to the stage at Cannes Lions to unveil his new music cable network Revolt
TV before thousands of creatives on Wednesday. At lunchtime yesterday, a
chastened Diddy was back pitching the network over an intimate VIP lunch with
industry royalty including BBDO's CEO John Osborn, Starcom MediaVest's Global
CEO Laura Desmond, Pepsi chief marketing officer for global consumer engagement
Frank Cooper, JWT worldwide CFO & CEO Lew Trencher and Horizon Media President
Bill Koenigsberg. "First of all, I want to say I love commercials, I love
commercials," Combs said.

"I don't remember what I was thinking when I said that, I would never say that
again. I just like the best commercials, the commercials that make me
emotional." Flanked by his close friend, branding guru Steve Stoute, he went on
to discuss the network which launches on Time Warner Cable in the fall, "There
is no longer one trusted name in music ... It is mind-boggling that gaping hole
is there. For music we have no one destination, that is what I am here to solve.
Revolt will become the new number one name in music." Combs ended his trip to
Cannes last night by throwing a huge party with Nas for 2,000 people at the
Gotha Club.

Tumblr chief calls Twitter 'gross'

TUMBLR founder David Karp lashed out at Twitter at Cannes Lions yesterday,
blasting the way it displays the number of followers for every tweeter as
"really gross." Karp said: "We don't share stats, so your follower counts, your
performance isn't published out to the world. You can make little bets or try
something small and experimental and not feel any sense of shame if you have
only 2,000 followers, which I always think is really gross." He added, "Tumblr
is not defined by the people you know, it's defined by the stuff that you love."
Karp also took a swipe at those who post negative comments online, "We've taken
a lot of care making Tumblr a positive environment, you don't want people to be
scared off by jerks ... It's very hard when you have comments underneath every
video on YouTube to keep the jerks out. It really sucks when you've poured your
heart into something to be called 'fat' by jerks on the Internet ... [Tumblr]
doesn't allow for drive-by nastiness." Karp, 26, who sold his site to Yahoo! for
$1.1 billion last month, said the site he'll continue to run is a welcoming
place where "an aspiring kid" can put up photos and creatives can place their
award-winning campaigns.

Reed's rantings

"NO personal questions allowed," we were told, as a craggy-faced Lou Reed showed
up at Cannes Lions for his first public appearance since his life-saving liver
transplant. But the surgery didn't seem to have sapped his legendary attitude.
Taking the stage with Grey Group's worldwide Chief Creative Director Tim
Mellors, Reed, 71, lamented the quality of digital music, which he said "sounds
like s--t," compared to "the beautiful warm sound you get on vinyl." Reed next
wtook aim at digital downloads, joking that he received a royalty check of $2.60
from his first record when he was 14. "It's pretty much what I get from
downloads now," he added, "I'm back where I started ... I understand young
people were brought up on downloading and Steve Jobs tried to make it into some
kind of business which benefits Apple but you get about a sixteenth of a penny
... The musician doesn't get paid anything." He went on to say that he was
shocked b y Edward Snowden's revelation of NSA surveillance:

"It's very disturbing. A lot of the things [George W.] Bush would have done,
Obama has continued. How did that happen?"

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : SEAN COMBS. LOU REED.CREATIVE POWER: McGarry Bowen's Brandon Cooke
(l.) and Kathleen Griffin and Ogilvy Chicago's Chris Turner at the Twitter
party. (Photos: Ella Pellegrini)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 10, 2013 Thursday

EX-MET GM RIPS SNUB OF PIAZZA

BYLINE: Dan Martin

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 318 words


Steve Phillips brought Mike Piazza to the Mets in 1998 and expected him to
become a Hall of Famer yesterday.

Instead, Piazza was left out, something the former Mets general manager called
"a travesty."

"He was the best offensive catcher in the history of the game and to lump him in
with [Roger] Clemens and [Barry] Bonds is insulting," Phillips said last night
by phone. "So he had acne on his back. That's ridiculous. He was guilty by
association because he was big and strong. He worked harder than any other
player."

In his first year of eligibility, Piazza appeared on 57.8 percent of the
ballots, falling short of the 75 percent needed for enshrinement. He finished
behind Craig Biggio, Jack Morris and Jeff Bagwell, but well ahead of Clemens and
Bonds, both of whom were also up for the first time and were tied to performance
enhancing drugs.

"I understand there are raised eyebrows with some players who may have been
attached to PEDs," said Phillips, now a host on SiriusXM's Mad Dog Radio. "There
was nothing with Mike."

Piazza's old manager, Bobby Valentine, is confident Piazza's fortunes will
change.

"Personally, I think he's going to get in eventually,'' said Valentine, who
believes Piazza - along with Bonds and Clemens - should be in the Hall of Fame.
"We'll see if the climate changes in the next few years. It's an amazing healer,
that time thing."

But Phillips doesn't think that should be an issue.

"People say, 'We'll wait and see what happens,' " Phillips said. "Why? There's
no investigation. Nobody accused him of anything or said they saw him do
anything. Other than connecting the dots where there aren't even any dots, I
don't understand it. He was the same player his entire career.   He earned all
his success. Sure, there's 15 years [on the ballot] to figure it out, but you've
already had five and he played for [15]. What's changing?"

dan.martin@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 20, 2013 Sunday

O smells blood in gun push

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 655 words


The promise has an ominous sound. Provoking memories of the eerie music in
"Jaws" when the shark circles the boat, Team Obama is revving up its campaign
machine for the showdown over gun control.

"We're going to take this fight to the halls of Congress," Vice President Joe
Biden warned. "We're going to take it to the American people. We're going to go
around the country making our case."

Do-do, do-do, thump-thump-thump-thump. America is gonna need a bigger boat to
survive the onslaught of the permanent campaign.

Welcome to Obama 2.0, which is shaping up like a carbon copy of the first term,
only without the velvet gloves hiding the brass knuckles.

"We have a remarkable opportunity right now to change our country," Obama
campaign boss Jim Messina said in an e-mail to supporters. "And if we can take
the enthusiasm and passion that people showed throughout the campaign and
channel it into the work ahead of us, we will be unstoppable."

Do-do, do-do, thump-thump-thump-thump. Don't go in the water!

The idea that campaigns settle things seems quaint in our hyper-politicized
times. That is doubly so when, even before he takes the oath tomorrow, the
president shows he has no intention of trying to heal the nation's wounds or
reconcile its divisions. He's at war against half of his own country, and he
must like it that way.

Assemble the adoring crowds, set up the teleprompters, go on the attack. Repeat.

It is an American tragedy that, with the nation's first black president being
sworn in on the holiday for Martin Luther King Jr., there is so little
confidence in Obama's leadership. A Wall Street Journal poll finds only 12
percent trust his ability to work with Congress.

There will be no holiday from his habit of treating Americans who don't agree
with him as enemies, as he proved when he rolled out his gun-control package.

"There will be pundits and politicians and special-interest lobbyists publicly
warning of a tyrannical, all-out assault on liberty - not because that's true,
but because they want to gin up fear or higher ratings or revenue for
themselves," he claimed.

See, dissent is evidence of sinister motives. We've heard it before, during the
fight over ObamaCare and the campaign on raising taxes. We will hear it on
climate change and immigration.

Only the president is pure, above politics. So when he unleashes his campaign
team to function as the spear tip of White House policy, The New York Times
actually calls it "a grassroots effort." Watch for TV ads like those that
accused Mitt Romney of being a felon and causing cancer.

Messina will lead the group, which is changing its name from Obama for America
to Organizing for Action. The new name carries the suggestion that it's a
throwback to Obama's community-organizing days - except this one will be exempt
from federal taxes and accept contributions from corporations, making it an
excellent ­vehicle for quid pro quos.

The National Rifle Association is a ripe first enemy, but it won't be the last.
With more than 40 percent of households reporting gun ownership, Democrats in
the Senate, starting with Majority Leader Harry Reid, are in no hurry to approve
anti-gun legislation. It will be interesting to see which balky Dems defy the
Obama machine.

The pity of the president's hostile approach is that there is a budding
consensus to take the "mass" out of mass murder. The Journal poll found 56
percent support for stricter laws on gun sales.

But by treating the subject as a campaign wedge issue, Obama risks alienating
Republicans and conservatives who recognize that the Second Amendment, like all
rights, is not absolute. Yet he refuses to do the hard work of forging a deal.

That's because gun control isn't really his aim. It's just an excuse to get back
into campaign mode and get out of Washington. After all, transforming the
country is much more exciting than governing it.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama as shark. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday

Climate analysis

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 85 words


DEREK Jeter (above) interrupted his rehab work on his surgically repaired left
ankle to rub shoulders with the world's most powerful at the Davos Economic
Forum. Jeter - invited by Pepsi - said he hopes climate change would be
discussed: "I was in New York for Hurricane Sandy . . . It's something that
needs to be addressed because we're seeing more and more natural disasters each
year, it seems like. Something has to be causing it." We wonder if Ford, which
uses him in TV ads, will give him an electric car.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Derek Jeter.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 23, 2013 Sunday

Mouse vs. man in new Cold War

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 683 words


The photo of President Obama and Russian boss Vladimir Putin sitting glum-faced
at the G8 summit sparked talk of a new Cold War. Let's hope not, because we
would lose this time.

Looking at them, I had one thought: In a showdown, my money is on Putin. In
fact, whether negotiating over Syria or arm-wrestling, I want a Putin on our
side.

He knows his country's national interests and is prepared to pursue them. We, on
the other hand, have a president who increasingly lives over the rainbow.

World disorder is growing by the day, and Obama seems not to notice or care. His
big moment in Berlin - a speech at the Brandenburg Gate - was noteworthy for his
­profuse sweating.

News reports focused on the small crowd, which was a fraction of the
rock-star-sized turnout he got there in 2008. But Obama's topic struck me as the
cause for alarm.

He proposed cutting Russian and American nuclear arms by a third, an idea so
loopy it had the feeling of a bait-and-switch. He had to know Putin would say
nyet, and the timing made no sense with chemical weapons floating around in
Syria and the rise of new nuclear powers, including Pakistan, India and North
Korea.

Even worse, Iran's scramble for the bomb and the warning from Saudi Arabia and
others that they will want their own nukes made Obama's choice an embarrassment.
It was as if he was trying to turn ­attention away from the present dangers by
floating a tired vision of Hope & Change.

Forget the world as it is, let's dream about the world we want. Maybe throw a
little pixie dust in the air and wish for a pony, too.

Dreaming has its time and place, but it is no substitute for action that might
make the world safer here and now.

His pathetic performance raises questions: Is our president giving up on
containing the chaos? Have the world's problems overwhelmed him?

Actually, I suspect something far more dangerous. He doesn't have a clue about
how bad things are.

Obama has never appreciated America's unique standing in the world. Coming out
of the blame-America-first faculty lounge, he believes the planet would be a
better place if we took a smaller role in it.

That's the vision he has followed by sounding the retreat across the globe.
"Leading from behind" is how one aide described it, but it's not leading at all,
unless you call running for the exits leading.

The result hasn't been a rise of the good guys who were supposedly held back by
our heavy hand. Instead, the vacuum is being filled by Iran and its agents in
the Mideast, assorted Islamists in North Africa and tyrants and ­sociopaths
everywhere. Obama is so consumed with his own navel that he hasn't noticed the
world isn't cooperating with his vision.

The bad guys have noticed.

Putin, for one, has Obama's number. So do the Iranians, the North Koreans and
even the Taliban, who think they can kidnap one of our soldiers and exchange him
for five bloody terrorists at Gitmo. Maybe they are right.

Our allies must be shaking, knowing Obama won't stand up to the bullies. And who
can blame a Karzai in Afghanistan or an al-Maliki in Iraq for tilting away from
us? We're short-timers in their neighborhood.

Obama's view is not new to history or unique with him. But somewhere between his
dreamy talk of utopia and his policy of neo-isolationism, there are actual
slaughters of real people taking place.

Yet the tens of thousands of corpses piling up in Syria don't move him, nor do
the millions of people displaced or forced to flee the country. And his
passivity shows he fails to grasp the dangers to our national security of the
war spilling into Turkey, ­Jordan, Lebanon and Israel.

Ah, but wait, the president does have an epiphany: The world needs to combat
climate change immediately. Any day now, the White House promises, he's going to
set limits on carbon emissions from American power plants. It'll be a
bells-and-whistles speech, one for history, aides say.

That will certainly put a smile on Putin's face. After all, America is
surrendering another piece of its economic future and he doesn't have to fire a
shot.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama and Vladimir Putin sitting glum faced. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday

Golden oldies Why are 18- to 34-year-olds still the demographic advertisers want
to reach? After the Great Recession, it's older Americans who have the most
money to spend

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1584 words


Buyographics How Demographic and Economic Changes Will Reinvent the Way
Marketers Reach Consumers

by Matt Carmichael

Palgrave Macmillan

You might guess that "NCIS" is the second highest-rated show in the Nielsen
ratings because it had the second-highest viewership - 19 million people in any
given week, trailing only to "Sunday Night Football."

But to advertisers, 16 million of those don't count: They're over 49.

So "NCIS" was to Madison Avenue only the 11th highest-rated show, with three
million or so 18- to 49-year-olds watching.

Hip young ad buyers think of potential customers over 50 as clueless oldsters
yelling for the sound to be turned up or baffled by any technology more recent
than the typewriter.

Marketers spend only about 5% of their ad budgets on viewers over 50, according
to the senior-marketing firm Coming of Age.

But here's the rub: Americans 50 and up buy nearly half of all consumer packaged
goods.

So why isn't the advertising industry recognizing the importance of people over
50? How much longer can it continue to ignore empirical evidence and hard number
crunching in favor of superstition, hunches and ill-informed prejudice?

To put it another way, as Matt Carmichael points out in his new book
"Buyographics," when will marketers realize that 55-year-olds whose houses are
paid off and whose kids are out of college have a lot more money to spend than
25-year-olds staggering under the weight of their student loans and struggling
to hold onto their McJobs?

Even if your hair is gray, your money is still green.

Compare the situation seniors are in to that of the fast-growing Latino market.
No one would ignore such a lucrative group, much less offend them, right?

Seniors aged 65 and over are outnumbered by Latinos (by 10- million) - but they
spend more. A lot more. Last year they spent nearly a trillion dollars more than
Latinos. Online? Seniors spend more than $7 billion on the Web each year, and
they make up more than a third of all social media users, Coming of Age reports.
Some 39 million Americans 65 and older are using Facebook, Twitter and/or Skype.

The median age of an American head of household is now over 50. So marketers
focused on the 18-49 demographic are now ignoring most American heads of
household.

Of course, older Americans haven't completely avoided the economic thrashing of
the past six years. A decade ago the median net worth of retiring seniors was
$227,000. Today that figure is down to $180,000. Among 55 to 64-year-olds,
median net worth took a huge hit of $85,000 since 2007.

But seniors are responding by going back to work, if only for the insurance.
Only 10.8% of seniors were working or looking for work in 1985 but that rose to
16% in 2007 and today it's over 19%, the highest level since 1964, just before
Medicare was created.

Seniors were standing on higher ground when the financial hurricane hit.
Millennials were down at sea level. The average net worth of 29- to 37-year-olds
is now 21% less than it was in 1983, in inflation-adjusted dollars. Some 34% of
Millennials have moved back in with their parents to cut costs, while surveys
have shown that young adults are saving more while carrying more student debt
and putting off marriage, home buying and car buying. (Not even half of teens
who qualify for a driver's license have one.)

The Millennial unemployment rate is 16%, but even that number is far too
cheerful: a Harvard study found that young adults are retreating back to school,
taking part-time work or dropping out of the workforce in frustration, meaning
that just three in 10 of them hold full-time jobs. Studies of the 1982 recession
have shown that when people are just entering the job market in a harsh economic
climate, they never do make up the lost income.

So what exactly is the point of all of the youth-targeted culture and
advertising? The marketers are like an army of hungry desperadoes fighting over
one tubercular chicken without noticing that behind them a herd of healthy
cattle is grazing quietly.

Households headed by seniors have more than 20 times the net worth of those
headed by those 35 and younger. That ratio has only grown over time: In 1984
that ratio was close to 10-to-1. Are they really worth only 5% of the
advertising? And seniors are the only age group in which inflation-adjusted
income has increased since the 2007 recession began.

Advertisers are beginning to wake up, but they're still a little freaked out by
the idea of leaving their Apple meets "Logan's Run" imaginary world where
everybody is under 30.

"One of the problems that scare marketers is, if you actively market to seniors,
is that a turnoff to everybody else?" Paco Underhill, the retail analyst and
author of several books on the subject, told Carmichael. "Do you want to go to
the supermarket that caters to geriatrics? I don't know if that's a legitimate
concern or not, but it is something that goes through the minds of both
merchants and marketers."

Fear of being publicly associated with seniors is a superstition worthy of those
Boston Red Sox players who thought that shaving might cause them to lose the
ability to play baseball. Southwest, an especially senior-friendly company that,
for instance, sponsors "honor flights" for WWII vets to visit the monuments in
Washington, DC, categorically denied to Carmichael that it advertises to
seniors.

Toyota, which designed its Venza model specifically for older Americans, didn't
use any seniors in TV commercials, instead featuring 50-ish parents with their
Millennial kids. One spot featured a Millennial worrying that her parents don't
have any online friends. Cut to: the parents out on a biking adventure with
flesh-and-blood friends. That's a start.

The notion that seniors are set in their ways and resistant to change (another
reason advertisers write them off) is belied by the recent example of Rite Aid,
which made a big push to entice seniors to switch their prescriptions to the
chain from its rivals.

You could hardly think of a tougher challenge in marketing: Prescriptions are
important; the people who rely on them don't want to risk an interruption and
they largely don't pay for them anyway (Medicare Part D does that), so it's hard
to give them an incentive to switch.

Yet by touting the benefits of its reward program (members receive a 20%
discount on the first Wednesday of each month) in a major advertising campaign
featuring actual old people, Rite Aid signed up more than 900,000 seniors. In
the spring it reported its first profit in six years.

Seniors can be sensitive about having too much attention called to their age.
They divide roughly into two groups. The "young-old" may take a few more pills
than the average American but otherwise live pretty much the same kinds of lives
as other adults. They don't want to be confused with the "old-old" who have
serious medical problems and difficulty caring for themselves. And the "old-old"
would rather not think about their position either.

When Heinz noticed that seniors who had difficulty chewing were buying Gerber
baby food, they tested pureed food aimed at the dentally challenged. It flopped:
Seniors were embarrassed to be seen buying pureed food for adults, whereas
putting Gerber's in their carts simply made them appear to be caring
grandparents.

Old people also have images of themselves as younger than they are, so actors
should be slightly younger than the people to whom you're trying to sell.

"Unless they are ill or depressed, older people do not feel 'old,' " concluded
scholars Don E. Bradley and Charles F. Longino Jr. in a 2001 study.

Marketers forget that there are lots of products oldsters buy that we don't
necessarily associate with aging.

"It's no secret that, next to kids, old people are the biggest market for
sneakers," Underhill writes in his book, "Why We Buy: The Science of Shopping."
And seniors have a lot more money to spend on sneakers than high-school students
do. "Still, no self-respecting kid wants to wear the same athletic shoes as
Grandmom."

But aren't there already a lot of Ednas and Ediths wearing Nikes? I don't see
eighth-graders losing interest in the brand. Eighth-graders judge what's cool by
observing what their peers and idols are wearing. They don't even notice what
Granny has on her feet. Nike would be smart to market a shoe for the olds and
advertise it on "NCIS," where no young person will hear about it anyway.

Other products aimed at seniors will step out of the shadows. As Underhill puts
it, "Somebody is going to have to figure out how to sell incontinence products
to aging boomers. The current category - a few low-key brands of adult diapers
sold sheepishly in the feminine-hygiene aisle isn't going to cut it. Will it be
Hanes, Calvin Klein or Estee Lauder?"

Taco Bell gets it: Its "Viva Young" Super Bowl commercial earlier this year
showed old folks led by an 87-year-old wild child sneaking out of assisted
living for some unassisted living it up - partying, pranking, getting tattoos,
general debauchery. Young people loved the ad. Old people loved it. It was the
top-rated commercial of the entire evening, according to a TiVo survey. And no,
burritos didn't suddenly become as uncool as Dentu-Creme.

If advertisers are wise, they'll stop writing off a huge segment of the
population and come up with more of this kind of spot: Let's have more badass
grandpas.

kyle.smith@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1950s look. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday

FEELING FINE SHANDY! The classic hot-weather drink - are freshing mix of beer
and citrus-still has plenty of fizz around the city as we head into the fall

BYLINE: and kATE sTOREY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 788 words


CAN'T decide between a refreshing lemonade and a nice, cold beer on a warm
Saturday afternoon?

How about both? Shandies - a traditional English tipple made with beer mixed
with juice or ginger ale - are the perfect tipple for the last days of summer.

"They are a great hot-weather, daytime refreshment," says Joshua Bernstein, a
Brooklyn-based beer expert and author of "The Complete Beer Course." "This
summer, I've definitely seen an explosion of shandies."

While pre-packaged versions, like Shock Top's Lemon Shandy and Leinenkugel's
Summer Shandy, are filling up bodega shelves - the number of global shandy
product launches more than tripled between 2009 and 2012, according to data
research firm Datamonitor - city bartenders are also putting their own spins on
the traditional recipe. Here are five:

Seasonal sauce

Summer Shandy, $6 at Northern Spy, 511 E. 12th St.; 212-228-5100

This East Village restaurant has shandies on the menu year-round, but its Summer
Shandy has been an especially big hit this year with its trendy clientele.

Modal Trigger

Northern Spy in the East Village put a smile on Ilissa Knisley's face with their
Summer Shandy.

It's made with homemade lemon-lime seltzer and a light, refreshing
hefeweizen-style Troegs Dreamweaver Wheat Beer.

"It outsells most beers by the glass, it's nonstop," says co-owner Chris Ronis.
"It is the ultimate summer drink."

When temperatures drop below 60, they'll trade their citrus-based drink for one
mixed with apple cider. "There are more complicated shandies out there," Ronis
says, "but ours are really just as simple and as delicious as you can get."

Jammin' apricot

Desert Shandy, $13 at Betony, 41 W. 57th St.; 212-465-2400

At Betony, a new, modern-American restaurant, the shandy is taken to a new
level. The drink was inspired by one of their desserts, a pastry featuring
roasted apricot, almonds and watercress.

"When I tasted that dish, I was like, 'Man, this is all the ingredients of a
shandy,' " says owner Eamon Rockey. "Grain is an integral component of pastry
and beer and I thought to myself, 'Apricots are delicious with grain, why
wouldn't it be delicious with beer, too?' "

To that end, Betony's shandy features their draft IPA, apricot brandy, Orgeat (a
sweet almond syrup) and sherry vinegar - all topped off with a spritz of
rosemary tincture.

"We'll keep it on the menu for as long as apricots are in season," Rockey says.
"It's one of our go-to cocktails right now."

A fresh take

Penn Shandy, $11 at Back Forty, 190 Avenue B; 212-388-1990

"Shandies have been popular this summer, but ours is the best one in town, if I
do say so myself," Back Forty bartender Nathan Connor says with a laugh. He
thinks the key to a good shandy is simple, fresh ingredients, and that's what
the East Village farm-to-table restaurant specializes in. Its shandy takes
Bluecoat gin from Pennsylvania, infuses it with lemon and lime, then adds simple
syrup and Sly Fox pilsner. The beer is also from Pennsylvania - hence the name,
Penn Shandy.

"The shandy used to be a staple here, but we haven't had it on the menu for
about a year and a half," Connor says. "But we brought it back because shandies
this year have been extremely popular. And it's been selling like crazy."

The hard stuff

Greenwood Shandy, $11 at Greenwood Park, 555 Seventh Ave., Brooklyn;
718-499-7999

The massive Brooklyn beer garden's shandy was inspired by the popular,
delightfully pink-hued Shoefferhoeffer grapefruit hefeweizen shandy they serve
on tap.

"I tried the grapefruit hefeweizen and thought it was delicious but that the
alcohol level was a little too low," explains bartender Michael Esposito. "So we
thought, 'How do we kick it up and make it more desirable?' "

To add some punch, the Greenwood Shandy mixes grapefruit vodka, Ruby Red
Grapefruit juice and St. Germain lavender liquor with the Shoefferhoeffer. It's
one of the bar's most popular specialty cocktails.

"It satisfies people that want something sweet to drink and don't want to taste
alcohol," Esposito says, "and the beer drinkers like it, too."

A sweet treat

Vanilla-Candied Lemon Shandy, $7 at The Third Man, 116 Avenue C; 212-598-1040

Alphabet City's Viennese-inspired cocktail bar started selling a sweet take on
the shandy just last month.

To make it, they cook lemon slices in simple syrup and a bit of vanilla until
they're nice and crispy. Then they use the liquid as the base for a lemonade,
top it all off with a bit of Shoefferhoeffer hefeweizen beer and garnish it with
the crispy lemons.

"Hefeweizen is super refreshing, lemon is super refreshing and vanilla adds to
both the smell and the taste," enthuses bartender Kasia Krupinsk.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -The Summer Shandy at Northern Spy puts a smile on the face of Ilissa
Knisley. [Hoang Nguyen]-Various shandies. [Hoang Nguyen; Brian Zak/NY Post; Gabi
Porter]<p>-Various shandies. [Hoang Nguyen; Brian Zak/NY Post; Gabi
Porter]</p><p>-Bartender Jenny Atwood tops off the Greenwood Shandy with a
refreshing grapefruit slice. [Tamara Beckwith/NY Post]</p>

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday

foreign affairs How an average, middle-class English girl became the jihadi
terrorist WHITE WIDOW When Samantha Laithwaite's husband blew up a London
subway, she played the grieving victim. Then she became a killer.

BYLINE: MAUREEN CALLAHAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1859 words


She grew up middle-class in suburban Buckinghamshire, England, and was
considered an average girl in every way. Her father, Allen, was a former British
Army soldier-turned-lorry driver; her mother, Christine, a homemaker. She has
one older brother, Allen, and friends recall that as early as junior high,
Samantha Laithwaite was a pretty and popular girl. When her parents broke up in
1994, she took it hard but seemingly no harder than most of her friends whose
parents had divorced. She wasn't particularly ambitious or studious, but she was
a good girl who was shy around boys, considered by classmates to be
exceptionally warm and decent.

Today, she is known as the White Widow, wanted in connection with last week's
attack on the Westgate Mall in Kenya. But Laithwaite, 29, has been known to law
enforcement since July 7, 2005, when her then-husband detonated a bomb in
London's subway system, killing himself and 26 civilians; back then, she was the
weeping, 8-months-pregnant widow who became the subject of national sympathy.

So, how did this nice young girl grow up to become one of the world's most
wanted terrorists?

BROKEN HOMES,

BROKEN LIVES

As wild as Laithwaite's story seems - the white woman from the West who decides
to become a radical Islamic jihadist - it is not without precedent. There is
Rabiah Hutchison, the former Australian surfer girl tuned "grande dame of
terror," once married to an Osama bin Laden confidante. "I would defend Islam
with my life," she told ABC News in 2008, "so that makes me a filthy, dirty,
subhuman terrorist."

There's also "Mama Shabab," a Canadian woman who runs a safe house for
terrorists in Somalia; Colleen Rose, a. k. a. "Jihadi Jane," the American woman
facing a life sentence for aiding and abetting terrorists, and Muriel Degauque,
a Belgian woman who committed the 2005 suicide bombing of a US convoy in Iraq
(only she was killed).

They all have certain things in common, says Mia Bloom, professor of security
studies at the University of Massachusetts and author of the book "Bombshell:
Women and Terrorism": broken homes, low self-esteem, lost souls in search of
purpose.

"For someone who has no structure and is lost," Bloom says, "Islam has more
structures than other faiths."

One of the best predictors, she says, "is involvement with a man who is in the
organization. It acts as a vetting mechanism for the terrorist organization:
This isn't going to be a police informant." If and when those first marriages
fail - due to death, planned or otherwise - these women continue to marry within
their terror networks, rising in esteem for their devotion to martyrs. In an
otherwise rigidly patriarchal society, this is how women derive their power:
raising money, acting as couriers, goading men into jihad by accusing them of
being weaker than women.

By all accounts, Laithwaite fits the profile. She was 11 years old when her
parents separated, and she began spending more and more time with her Muslim
friends, who she felt had more-solid families. The only subject that really
interested her was religion, and she began seriously studying Islam. She has
been described as "empty in confidence."

By 15, gone were the jeans and T-shirts and makeup. Instead, Laithwaite wore a
salwar kameez, the baggy tunics and trousers worn in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
She hadn't yet abandoned the Western world - at 16, she attended her high-school
prom. She wore jewels and a tiara and a face full of makeup.

"Samantha was very friendly with Muslim girls and because of that friendship
wanted to convert to Islam," a friend told Australia's Canberra Times in 2005. A
former classmate told the Daily Mail that Laithwaite had done "a lot of reading"
about Islam. "She told me she had grown up in a community where men were often
praying, and I suppose that's what sparked her interest," said the friend.

MEETING JAMAL

By the time she was 17, Laithwaite was a convert - not so unusual in her heavily
Muslim area, where about seven girls a year convert to Islam.

"At first she just wore a headscarf," but gradually she adopted full Islamic
dress, the classmate said. Laithwaite then went on to study politics and
religion at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, but she was
more interested in getting married.

"Samantha just wanted the simple things in life - someone to support her and
look after her," the classmate says.

Around 2002, Laithwaite met Jermaine Lindsay, a Jamaican-born Islamic extremist
who was one year her junior. Accounts of their first meeting differ: one has
them bumping into each other at a "Stop the War" rally in London; another has
them meeting in a chat room for Muslims; and yet another has them the product of
an arranged marriage.

"She had seen a picture of him and been told a lot about him," said her
classmate. "But they only spoke for the first time in a phone call on the
morning of the wedding."

Laithwaite's new husband, who preferred to go by Jamal, was himself a convert to
Islam at age 14. His transformation was similar to Laithwaite's: He swapped his
jeans and sweatshirts for Muslim robes, grew a beard, withdrew from his
non-Islamic friends and was interested mainly in kick-boxing, martial arts and
his new religion.

"A couple of times he gave me some tapes," a friend told the Daily Mail. "The
voices on them were saying September 11 was a good thing and attacking George
Bush and America's foreign policy. At one point he was trying to turn everyone
Muslim. He became a bit fanatical."

The couple married in Laithwaite's hometown, though none of her family was
present. According to reports, they "never came to terms with their daughter's
conversion."

"I haven't really spoken to Samantha since she dropped out of university three
years ago and converted to Islam," her aunt Kay said in 2005. "The last time I
saw her was in a store when she was all dressed in a Muslim burqa, and we just
said hello."

THE 7/7 ATTACKS

Laithwaite and Lindsay had their first child, a boy named Abdullah, in 2004. Not
long after the baby was born, Lindsay spent a week and a half at two mosques in
London, and in September 2004 the couple became close with another Muslim
couple, Mohammad Siddique Khan and his wife, Hasina Patel.

In October, Khan took off for Pakistan to undergo training at a terrorist camp;
the goal was to send him back to London to carry out an attack. Around this
time, Lindsay shaved off his beard and would disappear for days. When he was
home, he played Islamic music and tapes of the Koran on a loop, the ceaseless
noise disturbing his neighbors. Some reported the heavy stench of gasoline
coming from the apartment Lindsay and Laithwaite shared.

"Sometimes I would hear him chanting rhetoric about Islam and the Koran," one
neighbor said. "There was a lot of coming and going at the house. I said to my
wife at the time, 'I hope this man doesn't do something stupid.' I had an uneasy
feeling about him."

On July 7, 2005, Lindsay descended to the Picadilly Line on the London
Underground at rush hour. He was one of four suicide bombers who killed 52
commuters and injured 700 on that day.

In the aftermath, Laithwaite, now eight months pregnant, expressed revulsion,
horror and no foreknowledge of her husband's terrorist activities.

"I had everything," she told the press through tears. "But if this is true, now
I have nothing."

Then she demanded DNA evidence to prove her husband's involvement.

She also issued a written statement: "I totally condemn and am horrified by the
atrocities which occurred in London on Thursday, July 7. I am trying to come to
terms with the recent events. My whole world has fallen apart, and my thoughts
are with the families of the victims of this incomprehensible devastation."

Authorities interrogated Laithwaite and even placed her in protective custody
for a time. She sold her story to Britain's Sun newspaper for more than $50,000,
then later married a London-born Muslim extremist named Habib Saleh Ghani.

In 2009, Laithwaite had her third child and at an unknown point she and her
family fled Britian. Authorities believe she had joined al Qaeda the year prior,
and today is affiliated with Al-Shabab, the Somalia-based offshoot.

THE TERROR WIDOW

Samantha Laithwaite finally resurfaced in February 2011, entering Kenya with a
fake passport identifying her as a South African named Natalie Faye Webb. She
had several addresses in Johannesburg and ran up nearly $10,000 in bad loans
from local banks.

In December of that year, she was arrested and questioned by authorities in
connection with a plot to blow up hotels and restaurants in Mombasa; of the four
people detained, including her roommate, Jermaine Grant, only Laithwaite was let
go. Authorities believed her when she said she was just an unsuspecting tourist.

By the time police realized their mistake - Grant cracked and gave her up -
Laithwaite was gone. In their former safe house, police found Laithwaite's
diaries, in which she wrote of her intention to bring up her children as
martyrs. They also found ammunition for AK-47s, a destroyed laptop and
bomb-making materials. Interpol then issued a Red Notice, or global arrest
warrant, and Kenyan law enforcement charged her in absentia.

Since 2012, the CIA has been involved in the hunt for Laithwaite, now rumored to
have been a key player in the Westgate Mall attack.

While no one in the intelligence community doubts her importance, some are
skeptical that she was physically present, much less operational.

Though these terrorist networks are beginning to recognize the strategic
importance of women - al Qaeda has been soliciting applicants online for the
past five years, with their younger cohort in Al-Shabab even more open to the
role women can play - the intelligence community agrees that women would never
be in a position to give orders. Al-Shabab has publicly said Laithwaite was not
involved, and according to Katherine Zimmerman, senior analyst at the American
Enterprise Institute's Critical Threats project, "Al-Shabab hasn't lied, except
for inflating casualty counts."

"Laithwaite's more valuable alive," says author and expert Mia Bloom. "Being an
inspiration on the Internet and coordinating the attack - that I find more
persuasive."

As for the number of women - let alone white Western converts - involved in
terrorist networks, no one really knows. There's no centralized database, and
women on the whole come under far less scrutiny at security checkpoints than men
- precisely what makes them so valuable.

"There has been a slow slide" toward integration, Bloom says. "They began having
theological debates in 2004: Can women participate?"

Al-Shabab in particular has been agitating for the role of women to expand, and
since the late '90s, jihadi women have become more active in the region - Bloom
says there's been a 15 percent increase in Pakistan and a 25 percent spike in
the PKK in Turkey.

"Al Qaeda is just starting to use women," Bloom says. "But I think we are at the
beginning of the wave."

mcallahan@ nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The widow has been linked to the Kenya mall attack that killed 72.
(Reuters)Samantha Laitwaite as a schoolgirl (far left) and with her husband
Jamal, one of the terrorists who attacked the London Underground. (Mark St
George/Rex; Courtesy of The London Sun)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday

ON THE MONEY Biz mavens star war Bidding contest for $250K Yuri Gagarin suit

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 727 words


Is there a new space race going on between Warner Music owner Len Blavatnik and
SpaceX and Tesla founder Elon Musk, the pioneer of private space travel?

We hear Blavatnik was at the Sotheby's November auction, which aimed to raise
money for Bono's RED charity, and quietly bagged a piece of history.

The global industrialist, who has a Ukrainian heritage, placed the $250,000
winning bid for a cosmonaut's suit.

The suit wasn't any old suit, however: It belonged to the legendary Russian Yuri
Gagarin, the first human to go into space, in April 1961.

On the Money was wondering who else made bids on the suit; our source thinks
Musk was in the orbit of bidders.

According to The Post's Page Six, the event also featured a "Star Wars" storm
trooper helmet signed by George Lucas for $245,000.

OTM thinks Blavatnik got a bargain.

Claire Atkinson

Tree trimmings

Now that Thanksgiving is over, the Christmas holiday selling season has started
in earnest.

Tyler's Trees, an online New York company that allows customers to buy a tree of
their choice with four clicks of a mouse, is predicting another record season.

The company, launched by two entrepreneurs in their 20s, started this year's
deliveries the Monday before Thanksgiving .

Co-founders Tyler Kupper and Brian Millman said the company has grown at least
200 percent each year since it launched in 2008, and it now hires a seasonal
work force of 10.

Last week they were getting 150 to 200 calls a day, and the same number of
emails, and in spite of a shorter selling period (since Thanksgiving came a week
later this year). Last year, gross sales were in the low six figures.

About 80 percent of their business is in Manhattan, followed by Brooklyn and
Queens.

Their Fraser fir trees are from North Carolina, supplied by a third-generation
Christmas tree family. Trees start at $139 for a 5-foot tree, including
delivery, installation, a stand and a skirt, to the "Rockefeller," a 9-foot
giant for $359. For an extra fee of $50, the owners say, the tree can be removed
and recycled in an eco-friendly way. Julie Earle Levine

Well-bread

A New York baker has found a niche by selling her gluten-free bread at Le
Bernardin.

"After trying about a dozen such products, we thought Free Bread's pullman loaf
had the best flavor and moisture level and was the most consistent," said chef
and co-owner Eric Ripert.

He serves the bread when his clientele who have gluten issues request it.
"Gluten-free bread has become more in demand, and our job is to make our diners
happy."

Free Bread's founder and co-owner, Karen Freer  - her company's moniker plays
both on her surname and the absence of gluten - started to dabble in
gluten-free, nut-free and soy-free bread-making after being diagnosed with
celiac disease in 2008.

Hundreds of bread experiments later, Freer, 38, had the good-to-go recipe for
her millet-oat-flax "Moxy" rolls and pullman loaf, which she'd bring to social
events.

Freer, who has a master's degree in theater, went to Indiegogo to crowd-fund and
raised $13,000, which she used to buy equipment, and obtained gluten-free
certification. She launched Free Bread in 2012.  Coeli Carr

Hair bands

The 1980s have long been dismissed as a decade whose popular-culture hallmarks
included big hair, Duran Duran, Wrestlemania and MTV. But three decades later,
it is riding a nostalgia boom.

One of the catalysts is ABC's popular new comedy series "The Goldbergs."

The program is giving a bygone era a buzz, much like "Happy Days" did for the
1950s, "The Wonder Years" did for the 1960s and "That '70s Show" did for . . .
you know.

The bottom line is that Hollywood and Madison Avenue are making a shrewd bet
that Main Street USA can feel nostalgic about a decade that was pretty darned
cool after all.

"Thanks to this TV show, these are the good old days all over again, because it
evokes warm feelings of nostalgia," noted Brad Adgate, senior vice president of
Horizon Media.

Then there is Lady Gaga (left), who virtually markets herself as an honors
graduate of Madonna University.

And "Da Bearsss" cast is making a comeback in TV commercials. Even though the
"Saturday Night Live" sketch didn't debut until 1991, it has the feel of the
'80s, when the Chicago Bears were the most charismatic team in the NFL.  Jon
Friedman

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : LADY GAGA. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 2, 2013 Wednesday

Say Goodnight, Lisa

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 370 words


Good news: Environmental Protection Agency boss Lisa Jackson announced her
resignation last week.

Bad news: Whoever replaces her might be worse, particularly in an area of prime
concern to New Yorkers - fracking.

Jackson joined Team Obama at the outset in 2009, eager to roll out a
far-reaching, radical, anti-global-warming agenda.

So radical, in fact, that parts of it met resistance from not only Senate
Democrats, but even pro-enviro Obama folks.

And, notably, Jackson's departure comes just as probes are heating up into her
potential misuse of private e-mails to evade federal transparency rules.

A pillar of Jackson's agenda was the so-called cap-and-trade bill, meant to curb
greenhouse emissions. The bill died in 2010 when even Senate Democrats realized
the damage it would do to the economy.

Alas, Jackson had a Plan B: She'd impose regulations by fiat - and to hell with
Congress. Under her guidance, EPA devised the first-ever greenhouse-gas
standards for ­vehicles and set onerous emissions rules for factories and power
plants, particularly those that burned coal.

Coal-producing states like Kentucky, West Virginia and Pennsylvania
understandably began to sweat, believing the entire industry was doomed - as
were thousands of its jobs.

As it turned out, a federal court blocked her power-plant rule. And her most
ambitious gambit, smog regulation, was scuttled by a re-election-focused
President Obama, who feared that, in a weak economy, the plan would send
precisely the wrong message to the nation's job-producers.

Feeling "blindsided," she almost quit.

Yet, there was a bright spot in Jackson's rec­ord: She was an unabashed
supporter of fracking, the controversial method of extracting gas and oil from
rock formations deep below the surface.

Indeed, she blessed it as both safe and economically invaluable.

That was good news for New Yorkers, who've been waiting years for Albany to OK
the process here and jolt the economy upstate.

But who knows if Jackson's replacement will be as supportive of fracking?

Or as radical on other issues. (On these, admittedly, it will be hard to top
Jackson.)

A great deal - for New York and the nation - now hangs in the balance.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 4, 2013 Friday

Fracking is safe: secret state report

BYLINE: Erik Kriss

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 427 words


'New York can create more than 25,000 jobs, save family farms, keep families
together and lift entire communities by moving forward with safe natural-gas
development.' - Karen Moreau, NY State Petroleum Council

ALBANY - Go forth and frack!

Supporters of natural-gas drilling say a year-old draft state Health Department
report that's been kept under wraps - but that was leaked this week - proves
what they've said all along: that properly regulated fracking in upstate New
York would be safe.

Gov. Cuomo's administration and environmentalists called the report incomplete
and outdated.

But the gas industry and landowners say Cuomo should give the green light to the
controversial practice of capturing trapped and clean-burning natural gas by
fracturing shale with a high-pressure chemical, water and sand mix.

"New York can create more than 25,000 jobs, save family farms, keep families
together and lift entire communities by moving forward with safe natural-gas
development," said New York State Petroleum Council Executive Director Karen
Moreau.

Brad Gill, executive director of the Independent Oil & Gas Association of New
York, said, "We just certainly hope that the obstacles will stop being thrown in
the way and the industry can begin drilling here."

With Cuomo trying to shutter the Indian Point nuclear-power plant, Joint
Landowners Coalition of New York rep Scott Kurkoski said fracking is the
solution.

"We have to find a replacement source, and the answer is right under our feet,"
he said. "It's clean energy and will reduce greenhouse gases. And our
regulations will certainly be more strict than we've seen around the country."

Kurkoski, whose group includes 70,000 members with more than 800,000 acres
pledged for natural-gas development, noted that a proposed one-year fracking
moratorium in the rural, gas-rich upstate town of Chenango was voted down this
week.

The state, which has had its own moratorium on high-volume hydraulic fracturing
in place since 2008, is awaiting a report by outside experts due next month on
fracking's potential impact on public health.

The leaked report was prepared for the state Department of Environmental
Conservation, where spokeswoman Emily DeSantis said the document "does not
reflect final DEC policy."

Anti-frackers said the report shouldn't be taken seriously.

"What was in this draft was not based on any science, was not based on any
analysis," said Katherine Nadeau, water and natural-resources program director
for Environmental Advocates of New York.

ekriss@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 10, 2013 Thursday

Andrew's New Agenda

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 548 words


Two years of measured, if not altogether moderate, state governance went up in a
hot-air balloon yesterday as Gov. Cuomo sharply entered the national political
debate - stage left.

In an oddly animated, touch-all-the-liberal-bases, 78-minute-long iteration of
his annual State of the State Address, Cuomo promised first and foremost to make
New York a gun-control model for the nation.

This is problematic on several levels.

First, New York already has on its books some of America's toughest gun laws.

Next, assault rifles - a principal focus of Cuomo's speech - are historically
not much of a threat in the Empire State.

And finally, even if they were, bitter experience teaches that the problem will
not succumb to state-by-state legislation.

Guns are a national issue - resolvable, again, only via the traditional
political process at the national level.

Obviously, Cuomo knows this.

But he also knows that the first Democrats out of the gate on guns post-Newtown
will mine plenty of national political gold.

Vice President Joe Biden, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, all but
announced yesterday that the White House will move on its own: "The president is
going to act."

There's plenty of political hay to be made.

In any event, it's hard to see how New York can attack its gun problems by
itself.

Fact is, the state's biggest threat from firearms comes from illegal handguns -
most of which come from out of state.

Meanwhile, New York City already has the most effective anti-gun policy in the
nation, one that focuses on criminal behavior: gun possession. Cops routinely
stop shady characters and search for weapons. The result: New York has less gun
violence per capita than just about any other big city in America.

If New York wants to curb it further, it would do best to seek a national
remedy.

How? Consider: In the 1980s, Congress required states to adopt a minimum
drinking age of 21 - or risk the loss of federal highway funds. That made it
easier for Cuomo's own father, then-Gov. Mario Cuomo, to hike New York's
drinking age to 21. Indeed, today, that age is the minimum in every state in the
nation.

Likewise, when DC sought a 55 mph national speed limit in the '70s, it twisted
arms - threatening to withhold federal highway funds from states that don't go
along.

Wouldn't that be a better approach?

Guns aside, Cuomo also took care to push all the top liberal-agenda buttons:

l "Reproductive rights" for women.

l A hike in the state's minimum wage.

l Swift action on "climate change."

l A sweeping campaign-finance law.

l More money for schools - though, preposterously, funded by Upstate gambling.

And while Cuomo did call again for "no new taxes," New York has heard that vow
before - and watched him break it.

"You know my position" against tax hikes, he said in 2011. "That's my position."
He vowed not to shift with the "political winds."

Until, that is, he did - later that year.

It was also profoundly disappointing that Cuomo failed to endorse fracking
Upstate - even as he lamented the abysmal state of that region's economy.

Let's face it: Yesterday's State of the State was more campaign speech than
useful legislative agenda. Cuomo has his priorities.

Question is: Are they New York's?

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 10, 2013 Thursday

Bobby V not fazed by snub of Piazza

BYLINE: Dan Martin

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 183 words


Bobby Valentine was hardly stunned when he learned Mike Piazza didn't get enough
support to be elected to the Hall of Fame.

"I'm not surprised," Valentine said by phone yesterday. "It seemed like that was
going to happen with everything you were hearing leading up to the vote."

In his first year of eligibility, Piazza appeared on 57.8 percent of the
ballots, falling short of the 75 percent needed for enshrinement. He finished
behind Craig Biggio, Jack Morris and Jeff Bagwell, but well ahead of Curt
Schilling, Roger Clemens and Barry Bonds, all of whom were also up for the first
time and have in some way been associated with performance enhancing drugs.

But the former Mets manager, who reached the World Series in 2000 with Piazza
behind the plate, remains hopeful the catcher will wind up in Cooperstown
someday.

"Personally, I think he's going to get in eventually,'' said Valentine, who
believes Piazza - along with Bonds and Clemens - should be in the Hall.

"So I'm not crushed. We'll see if the climate changes in the next few years.
It's an amazing healer, that time thing."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 14, 2013 Monday

Cuomo's True Colors In Bluer-Than-Blue NY

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 582 words


The Issue: Gov. Andrew Cuomo's annual State of the State Address, outlining his
new agenda for NY.

Three cheers for Gov. Cuomo for finally making abortion legal in New York ("The
Real Cuomo?" Editorial, Jan. 11).

I can still hear his booming voice: "Her body, her choice!"

What's that? Abortion has been legal for 40 years?

While Pennsylvania and Ohio are creating hundreds of thousands of jobs and
taking in millions of dollars with fracking, Cuomo's too busy pandering and
ticking off the items on his liberal wish list to even mention it.

Instead, we get news that New York will have the most electric-car charging
stations in the nation - too bad nobody's driving them.

Upstate gets a marketing campaign to push its wine, beer and cheese, and also
get ­­­The Great Adirondack White­water Challenge - as if they don't have enough
trouble keeping their heads above water.  Tom Goetz

Manhattan

A leopard doesn't change its spots. Eventually, a paint job wears off and the
true colors shine through again.

Welcome back to the "new" old Andrew.

H. R. Brakel

Manhattan

Cuomo promised to create jobs and get New York going in a sound fiscal
direction. So far, he has failed miserably.

Cuomo is now conveniently changing his platform to non-issues and using
meaningless slogans in hopes of running for higher office.

He understands the reality of political games after gaining national notoriety
by signing gay marriage into law and was immediately touted as presidential
material.

Why worry about real issues and improving the state's economic climate, when
just duplicating Obama's proven strategy of running on emotional, empty slogans
and social issues brings success? The electorate accepted this strategy.

New York is one of the worst states for conducting business, because of high
taxes, myriad regulations and exorbitant energy costs. But who cares - except
the businesses fleeing the state and job-seekers?

Anton Loew

Manhattan

Michael Benjamin labels the new Gov. Cuomo "unCuomo" ("The 'Un-Democrat' Just
Gave Up," Post­Opinion, Jan. 11)

But this supposedly new Cuomo is the same old, real Cuomo: the tax-and-spend
leftist who proudly championed so-called "affordable housing," the cause of our
nation's worst economy since the Great Depression. Mark Kalinowski

Clifton, NJ

This is the same Cuomo who was HUD secretary when the Clinton administration
pushed the 1977 CRA act in the name of fairness and homeownership for all. That
gave us the meltdown of 2008.

While Cuomo has done some heavy lifting in his first two years, which was
politically smart, he is who he is - a liberal who has to stay close to the
center till he gets where he wants.

Eventually, even the best-managed politician shows his true self. Cuomo is no
exception.

Hopefully, Americans are now forewarned to keep him here in New York to limit
the damage. Robert Sanfilippo

Roslyn Heights

Every time Cuomo opens his mouth, The Post correctly and understandably points
to his shrill, grandstanding, leftist hypocrisy.

He has repeatedly proven he's nothing but another empty suit hell-bent on taxing
and spending us further into oblivion, and that the apple has never fallen too
far from the statist tree.

However, while the The Post's opposition to Cuomo's various positions is
well-placed, it has yet to explain on what basis it felt the HUD dud deserved
its hearty endorsement during his run for office.

Paul T. Lennon

Larchmont

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cuomo speaking in Albany on Jan. 9. Shannon DeCelle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday

Al Gore ducks question of 'hypocrisy' on 'Today'

BYLINE: MICHAEL STARR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 216 words


Is  hot air considered a component of the global warming problem?

Al Gore, who recently pocketed a reported $100 million from selling his
struggling Current TV network to Arab news channel Al-Jazeera, failed to defend
himself against charges of "hypocrisy" on yesterday's "Today" show.

Gore was on the show to promote a new book, "The Future: Six Drivers of Social
Change."

But Matt Lauer immediately went after Gore about a section of his book in which
Gore criticizes "virtually every news and political commentary program on
television" for being "sponsored in part by oil, coal and gas companies . . .
with messages designed to soothe and reassure the audience that everything is
fine, the global environment is not threatened."

"Critics jumped: 'Here's the guy who just sold Current TV to Al- Jazeera, which
gets an undetermined amount of funds from Qatar, which gets its money from oil
reserves,' " Lauer said. "Isn't there a contradiction in that?"

"I certainly understand the criticism," Gore replied . "I disagree with it,
because I think Al-Jazeera has obviously long-established itself as a really
distinguished and effective newsgathering organization.

"And, by the way, its climate coverage has been far more extensive and of higher
quality than any of the [US] networks."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday

Reviled Ray, OR Saint Lewis? Tone has changed, but only he knows if it's real or
a con

BYLINE: and MIKE VACCARO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 676 words


NEW ORLEANS - Twelve years and six days pass in a blur or in a slow, endless
grind, depending on how you look at it and depending on how you look at Ray
Lewis. And, honestly, that is the essence of Ray Lewis in these hours leading up
to the Super Bowl. What do you see? What do you want to see?

For much of the time between his appearances on the NFL's largest, loudest
carnival stage, Tuesday Media Day, we could deal with Lewis on our own time in
our own way. He was the thug who got away with murder.   He is proof that a man
can change, given a second chance. He's a con man who wrote a check and made
most of his problems go away.   He's a guy hardened by life who imparts wisdom
and leadership.

He's reviled. ... He's revered.

For most of those 12 years and six days, Lewis was a football player you only
thought about if he was playing your team. His first impression in the Super
Bowl spotlight was a hard one: flanked by security men in yellow jackets as he
sat at Podium 7 at Raymond James Stadium, the harsh Tampa sunlight glinting
against his earrings and jewelry, his tone sullen and defiant, only one year
removed from his involvement - peripheral, according to the courts - in a double
homicide.

His last, yesterday, was in the climate-controlled gray of the Superdome, Podium
4, and the smile never once left his face, even when he was asked several times,
several ways, about the latest controversy attached to him, whether or not he
used deer antler spray to speed along his recovery from a triceps injury.

"That story is two years old," Lewis said.

"Have you ever used performance enhancers of any kind?" he was asked.

"Never," he insisted, joining Alex Rodriguez atop the official PED Decree of the
Day for Tuesday, Jan. 29, 2013.

His tone had softened across 12 years and six days, same as his reputation, same
as the persona he wants to project as he transfers from the field to the
broadcast booth.

Ray Lewis, speaking of the murders of Richard Lollar and Jacinth Baker, Jan. 23,
2001: "Yeah I've got money, yeah I'm black, and yeah I'm blessed. But at the
same time, let's find out the real truth. The real truth is this was never about
those two kids dead in the street.

It's about Ray Lewis ... and that's not right, for nobody." Ray Lewis, Jan. 29,
2013: "That was a sad, sad tragedy, and we all have sympathy for the families
who lost their loved ones. I hope the families eventually find peace." Lewis,
Tampa, 25 years old:

"Don't be mad at me because I was on center stage. The person to be mad at is
[the District Attorney], the mayor of Atlanta, the people who never said one
time, 'We're going to find out who killed these people.' They said, 'We're going
to get Ray Lewis,' and Ray Lewis was never the guy." Lewis, New Orleans, 37
years old: "Nobody is really qualified to ask those questions. I would rather
direct my questions in other places because I live with this every day. You
maybe can take a break from it. I don't. I live with it every day of my life and
would rather not talk about it today." One thing hadn't changed across these 12
years and six days: The former junior church deacon at Greater Faith Missionary
Baptist Church in Lakeland, Fla., leans on his devotions just as strongly now as
he did then, though it comes across as more   what, sincere? Genuine? Honest?

or is that just more of the con  Lewis '01: "Even Jesus didn't p l e a s e
everybody.

He was spit on, slashed at, talked about, everything in the world, but guess
what? He hung his head and never said a mumbling word." Lewis '13: "There are no
bad conversations with God. The only bad conversation is the one you don't
have." You have probably already made up your mind about Ray Lewis, one way of
the other, the way Wes Welker's wife has, the way his most ardent acolytes have,
the way everyone in between has.

Is he reformed and contrite? Is he in the final hours of a public scam that has
stretched nearly a decade and a half?

Changed man   or con man?

Can anyone - besides Ray Lewis - ever really know?

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : WHADDYA SAY RAY!?! Ray Lewis' tone regarding his involvement in a
murder investigation was softer at Media Day yesterday in New Orleans than it
was 12 years ago. (EPA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 6, 2013 Wednesday

Post Focus on Commercial Real Estate Space case: Sandy v. shuttle

BYLINE: Lois Weiss; Between the Bricks

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 739 words


The Intrepid Museum Foundation has been involved in a cover-up of the city's own
space shuttle Enterprise.

When Sandy hit town, the Enterprise's $1.5 million-plus bubble pavilion cover
unwrapped itself and deflated - revealing that a small piece of the vertical
stabilizer had been torn off in the howling winds.

Post-Sandy, the enormous black-and-white bird has been exposed for all to see
for free.

There was an especially awesome view as one drove south on the elevated portion
of the West Side Highway where it looked like it was perfectly perched on the
top of a low pier.

But yesterday afternoon, a temporary, NASA-like cube-stacked building finally
surrounded the Enterprise.

An Intrepid spokesman says the piece of the stabilizer was recovered and will be
replaced in what NASA says is a "minor repair" once the temporary covering is
complete.

When it reopens, in a new pavilion later this spring, the public will once again
get to clamber on a walkway that will go over and look down into the cargo bay -
all at a separate admission from the daily Intrepid fee.

If you have any spare change, the Intrepid is also fundraising for a climate
controlled annex to properly display Enterprise.

n

Upper East Side residents are losing at a Whac-A-Mole-type land game as more and
more hospital facilities crop up between York Avenue and the FDR Drive.

The Hospital for Special Surgery has finally closed on a development site now
that its approvals are all in place - but because leases for various auto-repair
spots are still in force, a spokeswoman says it likely won't start development
for some time.

The $31 million trade will eventually result in a new 207,000-square-foot
Ambulatory Surgery Center that will run midblock from 517-523 E. 73rd St. to 512
E. 74th St.

Vincent Carrega and Jon Epstein of Avison Young represented the seller, Hedi
White, whose family has owned the ragtag group of properties for many years.

"It's in an M-zone, so you have to find a use that fits the zone, and the
hospital is a great fit," said Epstein. While many of the residential neighbors
and auto-repair tenants that are about to be uprooted would disagree, hospitals
keep on poppin' up, and the community tries to keep them down.

On the same block, CUNY wants to develop a new 18-story Hunter College Science
and Health Professions Building of 362,655 square feet - while Memorial
Sloan-Kettering would take a slice of the same city site for a mammoth, 23-story
730,133-square-foot ambulatory care center with lots of underground parking.

Both would rise on the space of a city-owned Sanitation garage that the locals
wanted moved. Hunter's project is slated to take the place of its current,
antiquated nursing school at First Avenue and East 25th Street, where those
locals, of course, are bristling at the swap.

n

The Swedish home accessories and fashion company, Gudrun Sjoden, is almost ready
to open its first US shop at 50 Greene St. in SoHo.

The 3,600 square-foot space has a rent of about $600,000 per year, or $300 a
square foot.

Independent broker Marianne Thorsen represented the company, which has a "green
soul" and works with all-natural materials.

Yair Staav of the Lansco Co. represented the building owner, who was also
represented in-house by Dario Zar of Zar Property NY.

The new store has a long glass skylight and is across the street from another
Swedish apparel tenant, Acne, at 33 Greene St.

n

Last week we revealed Jared Kushner had purchased 17 buildings in the East
Village for $128 million. We've now learned his Kushner Companies is in contract
to buy a seven-building package on East 4th Street with 115 apartments and one
store for $49 million from Meadow Partners and Magnum Real Estate.

David Ash of Prince Realty Advisors represented the sellers while Aaron Jungreis
from Rosewood Realty Group representing the buyers.

Kushner is a long-term owner. No one could be reached prior to press time.

n

Starbucks is not only renewing at 55 Broad St. but also growing by 1,000 feet
into 3,500 square feet - a size that would make it one of the largest of the
city coffee klatches.

David Firestein of the Shopping Center Group represented the Seattle-based
company while Michael Rudin of Rudin Management worked in-house for the office
building in the 10-year deal.

The asking rent was $140 a square foot.

Lois@Betweenthebricks.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday

State of the Union Obama's Rx is a liberal dose Hails big-spending fix for
economy

BYLINE: Geoff Earle and S.A. Miller

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 537 words


'It's not a bigger government we need, but a smarter government that sets
priorities and invests in broad-based growth.' -President Obama

WASHINGTON - President Obama confronted Congress withso his plan for a second
term in last night's State of the Union Address - demanding action on a laundry
list of progressive policies that culminated with a fiery appeal for votes on
tough gun-control laws.

Emboldened by his re-election, Obama showed little sign of compromise in pushing
an ambitious agenda that called for new spending to boost the economy, while
deriding Republican plans for cutting the deficit as "even worse" than the
budget battles of his first term.

Obama told the nation that his proposals would restore American prosperity,
making jobs and economic growth the focus of his presidency after four years of
painfully slow recovery from recession.

Still, the president declared that the country had made great progress over the
last four years.

"Together, we have cleared away the rubble of crisis, and can say with renewed
confidence that the state of our union is stronger," Obama said.

The president offered up wide-ranging proposals tailored to his Democratic base
that will likely trigger more battles with the GOP, including:

n Raising the minimum wage from $7.25 to $9 per hour.

n Helping states expand preschool programs.

n Creating a $40 billion "Fix-It-First" program to put people to work on urgent
infrastructure repairs, including nearly 70,000 ­unsafe bridges.

n Combating climate change with a new Energy Security Trust to spearhead
research and technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil.

n Enacting comprehensive immigration reform, including a path to citizenship for
illegals.

Obama also used the occasion to announce the pullout of 34,000 troops - about
half the US force in Afghanistan - by 2014.

And he condemned North ­Korea's test of a miniaturized nuclear bomb and called
for ­reduced nuclear arsenals worldwide.

The emotional heart of a speech that touched on an array of issues from
immigration to trade came near the end, when Obama spoke poignantly of Hadiya
Pendleton, the 15-year-old who marched in the inauguration and got shot "just a
mile away from my house" just days afterward.

Obama mentioned Pendleton's parents, who were seated with First Lady Michelle
Obama, saying, "They deserve a vote."

Obama summoned some of his stump-speech rhetoric to much applause, declaring:
"Gabby Giffords deserves a vote. The families of Newtown deserve a vote."

Substantively, Obama didn't demand much - he called expanded background checks a
"sensible reform" and noted that police chiefs "are asking our help" to get
"weapons of war" off the streets.

Despite calling for more "investments" in education, infrastructure and
scientific research, Obama promised that "nothing I'm proposing tonight should
increase our deficit by a single dime."

"It's not a bigger government we need, but a smarter government that sets
priorities and invests in broad-based growth," said Obama.

"It was unabashed liberalism," said Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), a newly elected Tea
Party favorite after sitting glumly through much of the speech.

smiller@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACE THE NATION: President Obama last night tells Congress and the
nation of his plans to grow the economy and for "sensible" gun reform, deriding
his Republican critics. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

NO CHANGE IS GOOD Holding assets will pay off in long run

BYLINE: and TIM BONTEMPS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 97

LENGTH: 588 words


Look, I get it. Trades are fun. Everyone looks forward to trade deadline day to
see what their favorite team is going to do, and what potential upgrades they
might make.

The Nets, having one of the NBA's richest owners in Russian billionaire Mikhail
Prokhorov, one of its most aggressive general managers in Billy King and a
desire to upgrade at power forward, found themselves smack in the middle of the
rumor mill for a third straight year.

But yesterday's 3 p.m. trade deadline came and went without the Nets making any
moves.And, despite their hole at power forward, that was the right thing to do.

None of the potential options, including the top available player in Atlanta's
Josh Smith, was enough to lift the Nets to the level of the Miami Heat, the only
truly elite team in the East. And, given that Prokhorov has made it clear his
goal for the organization is to win a championship, it wouldn't have been wise
for the Nets to sacrifice most or all of their movable assets to secure a player
who wouldn't allow them to reach that level.

The Nets did their best to try to get Smith-who certainly would have been a big
upgrade over current starting power forward Reggie Evans-by offering a package
of Humphries,MarShon Brooks and a first-round pick. But while Brooks is a
talented scoring shooting guard and first-round picks are arguably the most
valuable commodities under the new CBA, no team in the league's current economic
climate was interested in taking Humphries and the $12 million he's owed next
season.

The only way such a deal could have happened would have been to give up
significantly more in a trade - including some combination of two or more first
round picks, the rights to small forward Bojan Bogdanovic, who is playing well
in Turkey and whom the Nets view as a lottery-level talent, and rookies Tornike
Shengelia and Tyshawn Taylor.

Instead, by not giving up the farm now, the Nets have set themselves up to be
major players in the trade market next season. While Humphries' contract wasn't
appealing at yesterday's trade deadline, it will be much more valuable as an
expiring one next season when teams will undoubtedly be trying to avoid being
over the luxury tax.

That should give the Nets an excellent opportunity to add a significant piece to
their roster while, at the same time, not sacrificing their longterm
flexibility. And, when you consider the Nets currently have three starters in
their 30s and have four players signed to veteran's minimum contracts, they will
have several holes to fill moving forward.

But the biggest reason the Nets didn't need to break the bank to trade for Smith
is because of their competition in the Eastern Conference. Yes, the Nets are far
behind Miami, but so is everyone else.

After that? The Nets have split their season series with the Knicks, have beaten
the Pacers and Celtics twice and split two games against the Bulls. Even with
their current deficiencies, there's no reason to think the Nets couldn't make a
deep playoff run, and possibly even reach the conference finals, without making
any moves.

As King said earlier this week, "I think we're at a point now where I think this
group has to play together more than shaking it up and bringing in other
pieces." Now the Nets have maintained their long-term flexibility while still
having a chance to make a playoff run this season.

Not making a swing for the-fences trade for a player like Smith certainly isn't
the fun route to go. But, in the long run, it was the right one.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : BETTER LATER THAN NOW: The Nets did the wise thing in holding on to
Kris Humphries, whose $12 million contract will expire after next season, making
him more attractive to trade partners six months from now. (NBAE via Getty
Images )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday

Better reduce Our Wa$te (waste) Size

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 306 words


It could have been the $325,000 robotic squirrel, or the $300,000 spent to
market caviar. Or NASA's spending $1 million for a Mars menu every year, even
though no manned Mars mission is planned.

Maybe it was President Obama's decision to close the White House to the public -
while claiming sequester cuts would cause Doomsday and Armageddon rolled into
one.

Whatever the cause, Americans are realizing that Washington is running amok and
that Obama won't stop it. Public insight may be approaching a tipping point.

A McClatchy-Marist poll finds that voters trust Republicans in Congress to curb
spending more than Obama. The split is narrow - 44 percent to 42 percent - but
the findings show why Obama softened his harsh tone and started talking about
bipartisanship.

Coming so soon after Obama won four more years with 51 percent of the vote, the
survey also finds only 45 percent approve of the way he's doing his job, while
48 percent disapprove. He's also lost 5 points of personal popularity, and those
who have an unfavorable view of him now match those who are favorable, at 48
percent each.

The waste reports, most coming from Oklahoma's Republican Sen. Tom Coburn,
reflect a nation in a $16 trillion hole. Among his findings are the $1.4 million
spent every month to keep 2,000 dead people on food stamps, a $350,000 National
Science Foundation grant to help golfers, and $445,000 spent on a play about
climate change.

Coburn also found Washington spent $10,000 on talking urinal cakes in Michigan,
$25,000 for the Alabama Watermelon Queen and nearly $50,000 for Smokey Bear
hot-air balloon rides.

Alone, none of these is fatal. But the relentless accumulation reflects an
entitlement culture that expects Uncle Sap to pay for everything.

It has to stop, and it will. Either before or after the crash.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 29, 2013 Friday

School crime falls 25%

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 232 words


Major and overall crime in the city's public schools dropped dramatically in the
second half of 2012, with nearly 25 percent fewer incidents compared to the year
prior, according to the Department of Education.

The six-month decrease comes after crime took an unusual upswing during the
2011-12 school year, when it climbed by more than 5 percent compared to the
prior school year.

City DOE officials could not provide the raw data behind the recent plunge, but
put the decrease in the number of total crimes in schools at 24.2 percent
between July 1, 2012, and Jan.s7, 2013.

That's compared to roughly the same six-month period in late 2011.

The school safety data showed that the reduced number of incidents resulted in a
36 percent drop in the number of student suspensions over the same time period,
compared with the year prior.

DOE officials attributed the huge drop in suspensions not only to the safer
climate, but to changes in the disciplinary process that emphasizes counseling,
peer meditation and other methods that aren't suspension, officials said.

Hurricane Sandy also likely contributed to the plunging crime and suspension
numbers by shuttering schools for an entire week.

Suspension statistics have dropped significantly since the City Council passed
the Student Safety Act in 2010. It compels the DOE to publicly report schools'
suspension and crime data.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday

Blue, Green - and Brown

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 248 words


Go West, young man.

That's our advice for Andrew Cuomo. By West, we mean California, where he would
do well to ask his fellow Democratic governor - Jerry Brown - why good liberals
should support fracking. In a budget-focused press conference this week, Brown
put it this way:

"I have to balance my strong commitment to dealing with climate change,
renewable energy, to what could be a fabulous economic opportunity," Brown said.
"This could be good. But there are issues. And I want to look at it."

As well he should: The state's Monterey Shale formation, stretching from Los
Angeles to San Francisco, holds an estimated 15.5 billion barrels of recoverable
oil. Fracking could mean as many as 500,000 jobs by 2015 and 2.8 million by
2020.

It's hard to beat California for progressive credentials. California is a blue
state that has voted Democratic in six consecutive presidential elections. It's
also a green state, with a ban on off-shore drilling leases and some of the
strongest regulations on greenhouse emissions. And it's now a Brown state.

Though Brown has legislators pushing for a New York-style moratorium, he says
that fracking represents a "fabulous economic opportunity" that California must
figure out how to make happen. Note the difference in tone from Cuomo, whose
delays have only energized opponents and made the possibility of an economic
boom for upstate New York more remote.

If Gov. Brown is the progressive here, what does that make Gov. Cuomo?

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 23, 2013 Sunday

DEMOLITION MAN 'White house Down' director Roland Emmerich explains his
three-decade legacy of wanton movie mayhem

BYLINE: and REED TUCKER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 761 words


It wouldn't surprise director Roland Emmerich if he has an extensive FBI file.
Not just because he's probably destroyed more major buildings (on film) than
anyone else, but because his penchant for accuracy drives him to act like any
other terrorist seeking to take out an American landmark.

In Friday's "White House Down," a lone cop (Channing Tatum) has to save the
president (Jamie Foxx) after the White House is taken over by terrorists. To
make the film as realistic as possible, Emmerich scouted the presidential
residence from nearby buildings.

"We were going from rooftop to rooftop, then all of a sudden, you look down at
the White House, and it's two guys, then four guys, then six guys, all looking
at you," Emmerich says. "Then they have these long-lens cameras, and they're
photographing you."

No Emmerich movie would be complete without the decimation of an iconic American
building - a trademark that began with the director's first annihilation of the
White House, in 1996's "Independence Day." Turns out Emmerich's appetite for
destruction isn't entirely without reason. Those scenes help the movies play
better overseas, where crowds are generally only familiar with the most famous
American structures, such as the Empire State Building (also blasted in "ID")
and the Chrysler Building (crushed in 1998's "Godzilla").

The Post quizzed Emmerich about his greatest smash-ups, as well as those in
"White House Down."

The White House (Take 1): "Independence Day"

Wanting to signal that "anything can happen in this movie," Emmerich created the
shot by blowing up a 10-foot model of the White House with explosives. "It
became this one image that everyone knew," he says. "Lately, I had discussions
with [Sony Pictures co-chair] Amy Pascal. She was saying that really successful
movies have one moment in them that everyone will remember. And you can never
tell before what that moment will be.

"Initially, this scene was only in the teaser trailer. It was never on the
posters until the video campaign. By then, the studio had analyzed what image
every audience member liked or kept in mind. In the original outdoor campaign,
the poster was only the spaceship over New York."

Statue of Liberty: "The Day After Tomorrow"

Lady Liberty takes a beating in the 2004 epic about climate change destroying
the world. "The movie I loved the most as a child was 'Planet of the Apes,' "
Emmerich says. "I said, 'One day, I will make an iconic shot like that.' And
that was 'Day After Tomorrow.' It shows up twice in the movie. Once when the
[tidal] wave comes, to show how big the wave is. Then when the city is under
ice, it's used again. It's like a reoccurring theme in the movie."

The Capitol: "White House Down"

"Have I blown this up before?" Emmerich wonders. "Yeah, I think I have. I think
it gets blown up in 'Independence Day' after the White House."

The scene of the famous dome imploding in "White House Down" was accomplished
using computer effects layered over a helicopter shot of the real building.
"Today, you can really create fire and smoke in the computer that's totally
photo-real," he says. "Five years ago, you couldn't do that. Now you can crumple
a building with a computer and it looks so believable. We don't use models
anymore."

The extent to which the building is destroyed is also important. The production
crew created paintings depicting the Capitol in various states of disrepair,
from damaged to completely flattened. Emmerich opted for something in the
middle, because audiences wouldn't recognize the building if it were too blown
up.

The White House (Take 2): "White House Down"

Unlike "ID," this mayhem was done completely with computers. Emmerich used a new
tool that, when connected to a camera, grafts the footage being shot onto an
existing computer model in real time. Even when an actor is filmed against a
blue screen, the director can see an approximation of how the finished footage
will look, such as one scene in which Tatum is running (on a set) in front of a
flame-engulfed White House.

Air Force One: "White House Down"

The president's jet goes down in flames. "I'm always forcing [the SFX crew] to
do really long shots," Emmerich says. "I think when you do a shot like this
that's really long, it's much more impressive. This shot was in the works from
the beginning. I saw it early on and said, 'No, longer.' Then, 'Longer!' They
really pulled it off. I think it's 22 seconds or something now. In the
beginning, it was three or four seconds. I want to see it going down."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : Channing Tatum plays a cop who must protect the president after the
White House has been captured by terrorists. Roland Emmerich.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 24, 2013 Monday

He's gov-ing it all away INSIDE ALBANY

BYLINE: FREDRIC U. DICKER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 623 words


Gov. Cuomo has lost his early mojo in his third year in office.

The unproductive and destructive legislative session that ended chaotically
Saturday showed that Gov. Cuomo has lost his mojo during his third year in
office, leaving little doubt that the Legislature's hidebound "leaders" -
including Sheldon Silver - know it, Capitol insiders agree.

Cuomo, whose first two years on the job produced a new, fiscally sound and
politically skillful direction for the state, tacked sharply to the left
beginning in January, and the mess that followed during the next six months -
tax hikes, budget gimmicks, scandalous vote-buying rebates, union giveaways, the
most divisive gun-control law in state history and an ugly casino-gambling deal
- was the price he paid.

And the public gets it. Polls show growing disenchantment with Cuomo.

There was another big and deeply disappointing difference between the Cuomo of
2011-12 and the Cuomo of this year.

The earlier Cuomo prided himself on bluntly describing and addressing some of
the state's most pressing problems - its anti-business climate, crushing local
property taxes, unaffordable public pensions - after a long string of governors,
including his father, Mario Cuomo, either ignored them or made them worse.

But this year's Cuomo, in a striking change that saddened some close political
allies, ignored those still-unresolved problems and substituted instead a series
of made-up marginal issues as a device to deflect attention from the real ones.

Exhibit A was Cuomo's 10-point Women's Equality Act (WEA), which dominated much
of the legislative session. If the WEA was so important, many of insiders asked,
why didn't he propose it in when he first took office in 2011 or in 2012? The
fact is that all of the WEA's major provisions - including abortion rights and
no discrimination in hiring - already exist in New York law.

"The WEA was designed to fill the vacuum of the governor's lack of issues this
year,'' said a Cuomo administration source. "The governor saw how effectively
President Obama and the Democrats used women's issues in the campaign last fall,
and he wanted to do the same.''

It was the same situation with Cuomo's anti-gun Safe Act, which, in an
unprecedented set of actions, has been condemned by more than 50 upstate
counties and most of the state's elected sheriffs.

Cuomo literally screamed, "You don't need 10 bullets to kill a deer'' in his
State of the State Address to justify the Safe Act's ban on semiautomatic
rifles, an act of surprising demagoguery since state law already prohibited
using that many bullets in a hunting rifle.

The Safe Act almost immediately turned a majority of upstate voters sharply
against Cuomo, and he sought to undo the damage with two big proposals he
promised would revitalize the upstate economy: casino gambling and "tax free New
York,'' a supposed economic-development incentive plan.

But neither of the final versions of the measures passed last week did what
Cuomo promised. The gambling plan, instead of helping upstate, handed Senate GOP
leader Dean Skelos and his Long Island Republicans two huge ­slot-machine
centers.

And the final version of the "tax free'' plan that would supposedly draw
businesses upstate granted tax-free areas to all five New York City boroughs -
to the benefit of Assembly Speaker Silver (D-Manhattan) and Cuomo's core
Democratic constituency.

"Gov. Cuomo this year went from being a great hope for the state to being just
another in a long string of politicians who ignore the serious issues and just
use their office to advance themselves politically with the hopes of reaching
the White House,'' said a longtime Albany political operative.

fdicker@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOVERNOR CUOMO. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday

Hondo triple dipping

BYLINE: Post Sports Desk

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 185 words


Hondo went double-draino last night as the Metamucils and Rockies failed their
assignments, moving his deficit below the Hondoza Line at 570 nahorodnys.

Tonight, Mr. Aitch will give thanks to Danks if he stops the Mets - 10 units on
the Pale Hose. Also, he expects Lincecum to freak out the Dodgers - 10 on the
Giants. And, finally, he will engage in some Lynn-sanity in Houston - 10 on the
Cards.

ssssssssssss-$

A political action committee working to draft Hillary Clinton for President in
2016 has opened an online store that is selling campaign buttons, hats and
shirts. Still in production are some double-wide woolen pantsuits for Hillary's
full-figured fans   Meanwhile, regarding Republican presidential politics,
former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and Fox News contributor John
Bolton reportedly is considering a run. Sources say he won't decide until he
talks it over with his mustache   Hondo has a sneaky suspicion Obama's climate
change speech yesterday was less about reducing the temperature on the planet
and more about reducing the heat on the White House.

hondo@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 16, 2013 Friday

We've been taxed enough

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 759 words


LIFE can be taxing.

Once, no taxation without representation. Now, no representation without
taxation.

Our pols who don't know their colonoscopy from a hole in the ground can peer
into the galaxy. Can speak to Albanian counterparts on Skype. They just can't
fix Breezy Point. Or Benghazi. Gun control. Economy. Wall Street. Unemployment.
Hunger. Guantanamo. Poverty. Housing bust. Immigration reform.

Climate change. Syria. Korea. Egypt. Health care. The Snowden mess. Second
Avenue subway mess. US debt. Medicare. Social Security. Retirement. Spitzer's
hunger. Weiner's banger.

Our pros fight problems like the Mafia fights crime. They never know what urgent
problems they won't do anything about. They know only more taxes.

Take airlines. Extra legroom? An extra $45. Stewardess? No, no, a thousand times
no. Today they're "flight attendants." But they don't attend food. Freebie old
stale snacks are for sale. International, Rolaids come with dinner.

And fie on amenities. Oxygen mask? Shove a quarter in the slot. Breathing's
still labored? Slide in a credit card. The air's best with Visa.

Special seating? A fee. Early seating? A fee. Call to speak to an actual human
ticket agent? A fee. Luggage over a certain weight is now taxed. Soon seat belts
will come with a measuring tape, and they'll weigh in on a passenger's weight.

The bereavement fare. Discount if you had to go to a funeral. For a bar mitzvah,
no more discount.

Hotels. Late cancelation for a reservation? You get soaked. Airport shuttle? Not
on the arm. Creeping in and cropping up: Camouflaged service charges which
theoretically negate tipping housekeepers, doormen, bellhops. Lotsa luck. Hit
that same hotel a second time and see your unservice.

Check in early, check out late? Surcharge. Internet? Surcharge. Safe-deposit box
in your room? Surcharge. Spa or beach towel you walk away with? Surcharge.
Storing bags temporarily after you check out? About as free as Spitzer's old
hooker.

May this industry's international executives someday get honored by a
testimonial probe.

Showbiz. Once, if mommies heard a bad word they'd fine kiddies a penny in a
piggy bank. Today, where a show's only clean word is "Mormon," theatrical piggys
instituted an upkeep facility charge. What that means, who knows? Wash your
hands, it's one price. Pee, it's another.

Citi Bikes. Citibank donates them and yet your bikathon comes with a fee. So
that bread goes where? To Janette Sicko-Khan's shrink?

Taxis. It's an additional drop on the meter depending what time you hail that
cab. Soon cars will cost less than cab rides. That is, until our senators use
their limo phones to vote for gas rationing.

Hidden wedding costs. Buying, engraving, designing those invites, fine. But did
your mother-in-law, who's footing the bill, figure the postage? How about
last-minute wedding gowns altered and steamed. You got fat? Rebuilding a bodice
or replacing zippers? The price zooms higher than a nose job.

And if the event runs longer than expected? Lotsa luck. Photographers charge by
the hour. You blocked hotel rooms? You considered the welcome-bag delivery fees?
The storage fees?

Rental transport. Those 100 extra chairs aren't arriving by oxcart. Another
thing. Who cares if it's a lousy babka, use the in-house cake. Outside bakers
hoist the expense. More work for the staff. They're responsible for slicing,
serving each piece then cleaning up.

Banks. ATMs. All that moola. They charge you. Also, you need a minimum checking
account balance or they nail you. Also, you need to pay money to get your own
money.

Credit card fees fees fees. Application fees. Processing fees. Late payment
fees. Transaction fees. Lost fees. Checking your credit line fees. Overdraft
fees. Transfer fees.

Elbowing to use the same mayoral chamber pot is our Ringling Brothers circus
pawing for office. Some, who'll wind up in the Tomb of the Unknown Amateur,
grunt no more taxes. Others: We need more taxes to help the poor, unhelp the
rich, help the helpless MTA.

Greece broke? Spain flat on its frittata. France in a hole. We should give
Europe credit because they can't get along without it? How about us? The US. New
York. Highest standard of living in the world. We just can't afford it.

Our beloved country may have young blood, but it's in old containers. Geezers
monitoring our issues have reached the age where they put tenderizer in Cream of
Wheat. They're too nervous about what's Out There to see what's Back Here.

Please. We don't need more taxation.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Media City Curiosity corner

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 817 words


With school back in session, students are pondering the great questions. No, not
whether Katy Perry is a better act than Taylor Swift. We mean the BIG questions.

Popular Science lives up to its name. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to
understand it. This month, PopSci talks about the future of driverless cars, a
timely topic with companies like Google and Tesla developing the technology that
will one day allow commuters to sleep while the robot chauffeur takes the wheel.
Some of the magazine's little story bites are the best ones, delving into topics
like what would happen if an astronaut were lost in space outside a craft, which
is the premise of the new movie "Gravity" with Sandra Bullock. Turns out the
astronaut would likely die after the eight hours of air runs out.

As science mags go, Discover is probably the most akin to your local TV news
station. It is packed with stories that will startle you, freak you out and keep
you up past bedtime. Take Discover's cover story about toxins in your food.
After reading it, you may never eat rice again, or sip apple juice, for fear of
poisoning yourself with unsafe levels of arsenic. Once you've raised your blood
pressure with that, how about what can seep into your body from plastic
containers and how even honey can be bad for you. Don't miss a frightening story
about a giant plant in Borneo called Corpse Flower because it smells like dead
bodies, or this feature: "How to Dodge a Cosmic Bullet," about saving the planet
from killer asteroids.

Popular Mechanics Editor-in-Chief James Meigs should make like an NBC exec and
dump Jay Leno. The celebrity car enthusiast regularly pens a feature for PopMech
titled "Jay Leno's Garage." But the item the comedian produced on his adventures
purchasing vintage cars with his father is equal parts pointless and awkwardly
written. Elsewhere, the magazine delivers an illustrated guide on how to avoid
accidental death. Here's one: "Avoid shark-infested waters."

Scientific American, the grand-daddy of science magazines, is here to remind us
that science is serious stuff. We'd actually never wondered why humans live
longer than other primates, but a story promising to answer the question did
pique our interest. (It may have to do with eating meat, which forced human
genes to develop certain immunities.) A feature on Russia's nuclear power
exports might be more scary than that country's role in Syria. We were reminded
elsewhere that science is at the forefront of political debate in the US, both
on the topic of evolution and climate change.

The New Yorker's cartoon cover depicts Bashar al-Assad doing a cameo in
"Breaking Bad," mixing chemicals inside Walter White's meth lab. Inside, a
feature focuses on Assad's key military backer - Iran's special-ops chief Qassem
Suleimani. A former CIA officer tells reporter Dexter Filkins that Suleimani is
"the single most powerful operative in the Middle East today - and no one's ever
heard of him." One possible reason for this: it was Suleimani, not the US, who
brokered the deal to install Nouri al-Maliki to lead Iraq, Filkins reports. So
who should be more embarrassed by all of this, the US government, or the press
for not filling us in on this sooner? "Iraq is a failed state now, an Iranian
colony," says Ayad Allawi, for those of us who haven't yet gotten the memo.

"We get to be home together a lot more now than we used to in the last few
years," Hillary Clinton tells New York, in what must be the most sleep-inducing
quote to kick off a magazine feature in weeks. "We have a great time; we laugh
at our dogs; we watch stupid movies; we take long walks; we go for a swim."
Excuse us, but we've got a hard time digesting this. Far easier was the mention
farther down of the time Bill and Hillary crossed paths in Bogota while she was
secretary of state. "They had dinner together - then owing to their massive
entourages, returned to their respective hotels," Joe Hagan reports. Now that's
the couple we know and love, thank you very much.

Time's new managing editor, Nancy Gibbs, begins her inaugural letter to readers
with the rather dubious assertion that "Time now reaches an audience its
founders could only have dreamed of." Sorry, but we can't shake the idea Henry
Luce might be a bit crestfallen to read the latest circulation numbers and ad
rates. Likewise, we're highly skeptical of her bald declaration that "we are
living through the most immense transfer of power from institutions to
individuals in history." Still, she keenly observes "an abiding concern with how
detached our politics feels from the reality of our lives," and this issue has
some strong features in particular on Google, education reform and e-cigarettes.

---

ON THE NEWSSTAND

POPULAR SCIENCE: 2 ¹/  stars

DISCOVER: 3

POPULAR MECHANICS: 1 1/2

SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN: 3

THE NEW YORKER: 3

NEW YORK: 2

TIME: 3

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 18, 2013 Monday

Media City Visions of venison

BYLINE: Burrellesluce

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 721 words


Feel like hunting your own Thanksgiving turkey or some whitetail deer before the
New York City-area season ends? Try bagging a hunting magazine.

Bowhunter is the obvious choice for those using bow and arrow to hunt, but the
current issue contains painful writing published in a font you'll need a hunting
sight to see. There's a feature on the latest science behind catching whitetail
deer, and on how to sound like a deer in order to get a buck in the brush. But
the mag takes a bad shot with a teaser instead of a full story on New York
Giants star Justin Tuck joining the Bowhunter TV crew on a hunting expedition so
people will watch it online.

The November issue of Outdoor Life is the Whitetail Skills edition just in time
for the New York City deer-hunting season, which ends Dec. 8. Like Bowhunter, it
has a story on how to attract a deer. "If you want to bag bigger and better
bucks, then you've got to add more emotion" to your deer calls, it suggests. A
short feature on turkey hunting might be helpful if you plan to bag your own
Thanksgiving bird before turkey-hunting season ends Nov. 20.

Petersen's Hunting is easy to read with many interesting short items. These
include features on peak deer breeding times, and the top 10 days of the rut
(deer-mating season). Pictorials on the best Western rifles and point-of-view
cameras are also helpful for the hunting inclined. We also liked the story about
how a rookie bowhunter outshot the pros when whitetailing it in Colorado.

The November/December issue of  Sports Afield goes way afield of most local
hunting grounds, with stories on the thrill of hunting in the Caucasus, and elk
deer hunting in Alberta. Thinking of shooting in a former war zone? Sports
Afield shares the chase in Liberia, where the game is wild beasts. Must be quite
ironic to the locals, who have been trying to avoid bullets during two civil
wars.

New Yorker's technology issue is as timely as a tweet, though not quite as
concise. A 12-page feature on Google's self-driving car, or in this case cars -
one a Prius and the other a Lexus - is worth a spin. The car is not quite ready
for sale, and surprise, surprise, General Motors is not interested in making it
anyway. Too bad, as Google self-driving cars use half the gas of normal cars,
and would greatly reduce the country's 10 million annual accidents. There's a
great Talk of the Town item on how a stranger spots actress Brooke Shields and
shows her a picture she took a week earlier of a car for sale that the owner
claimed used to be hers. It was. Shields then secretly bought back what was her
first car (with a bumper sticker she put on as a teenager intact).

New York flexes its local muscles with an intriguing feature on the "annoying"
Cahn twins of Stuyvesant High School. The 17-year-old seniors have been busy
criticizing the school and running for student political offices, getting under
the skin of teachers and classmates alike. They also stand out for being two of
the only kids wearing yarmulkes at the now largely Asian Stuyvesant. New York
also focuses on Taylor Swift for its cover. We know she's big, but hasn't the
"Who's Taylor Swift?" story been written before? Editor-in-Chief Adam Moss also
weighs in on the 50th anniversary of the Kennedy assassination, in a story
largely about political conspiracy theories like the Illuminati and alien
cover-up by the government. Not a bad idea, but perhaps a little too
tongue-in-cheek.

Time also covers the Kennedy assassination in a cover story that mostly reflects
on how it spawned a Kennedy conspiracy industry. Unfortunately, it sets up that
premise by saying 60 percent of Americans feel there is a conspiracy without
digging into the truth behind Kennedy's murder. Meanwhile, Time tries to debunk
the theory that global warming had much to do with the horrific Philippines
typhoon, saying, "The typhoon would have been devastating regardless of climate
change." The story might have been more convincing, and interesting, if Time did
more to back up that claim, which contradicts what Philippine leaders are
saying. Better is an interview with reclusive "Hunger Games" author Suzanne
Collins.

---

ON THE NEWSSTAND

Bowhunter: 1 ¹/  stars

Outdoor Life: 2 1/2

Hunting: 3

Sports Afield: 2

The New Yorker: 2 1/2

New York: 2

Time: 2

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

Mayor-elect repeats 'tale of 2 cities' in prez powwow Deb & Bam look left

BYLINE: S.A. Miller and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 360 words


WASHINGTON - Bill de Blasio took his leftist agenda to DC Friday and emerged
from the White House proclaiming that his brand of socialist politics is
sweeping the nation.

"There is a progressive movement in this country that is having a real effect,"
de Blasio declared after he and 15 other new mayors huddled with President Obama
for about 90 minutes.

"Something is going on here," the mayor-elect said of the new era that he saw
dawning at the lefty powwow with Obama. "If everyone is talking about
inequality, if everyone is talking about fighting poverty, if everyone is
talking about early childhood education - something is going on."

He said the discussion was dominated by talk of the "crisis of inequality,"
echoing his campaign battle cry that New York had become a "tale of two cities,"
a theme Mayor Bloomberg has repeatedly rejected as divisive.

Many of the other newly elected mayors at the meeting, including Boston
Mayor-elect Martin Walsh and Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop, also ran on
progressive platforms.

Outside the White House, an emboldened de Blasio vowed that he and his fellow
mayors would ferment the brewing grassroots movement to fully realize the
­"vision" they share with the president. He applauded Obama for embracing the
"tale of two cities" scenario and said he hoped to revive the type of national
campaigns run by Bloomberg on climate change, gun control and immigration -
except "with a different approach."

In other words, the tilt would shift decisively to the left.

The national agenda would include Obama's push to raise the federal minimum wage
and extend long-term jobless benefits set to expire at the end of the year. The
unemployment benefits, which would cost taxpayers $25 billion, didn't make it
into the budget deal passed Thursday by the House.

"You've got potentially 1.3 million people who, during Christmastime, are going
to lose their unemployment benefits," Obama said before the meeting.

Obama called more unemployment checks and a higher minimum wage "basic things
that we can do just to create a better economic environment for these
outstanding mayors."

smiller@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACE TO FACE: Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio gets the prime seat directly
opposite President Obama Friday at a "progressive" White House confab for
big-city mayors.AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 19, 2013 Thursday

Thrill was genuine: fake spy Gets jail for CIA scam

BYLINE: S.A. Miller and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 347 words


WASHINGTON - A senior EPA official who skipped work for years by claiming he was
a CIA agent was sentenced Wednesday to 32 months in prison after telling a judge
he got hooked on the thrill of scamming the government.

"It's something like an addiction," John C. Beale said in Washington federal
court.

"You get into the habit of doing something just for the sake of doing it," he
said, adding that he felt a "rush" and a "sense of excitement" by pretending to
be a spy over a 12-year period.

Beale, the highest-paid official of his agency and a leading authority on
climate change, told Judge Ellen Huvelle he was ashamed of collecting paychecks
for not working.

"Why did I do this? Greed - simple greed - and I'm ashamed of that greed," he
said in his first public comments on the case.

Beale has already given back nearly $900,000 in wages he was improperly paid,
and will pay another $500,000 in restitution.

"I've had better days," Beale, 65, told The Post as he walked through the
courthouse. "It could have been much worse."

Beale faced up to 37 months in prison. Huvelle declined to fine him
additionally, saying "he is paying a hefty amount in every which way."

Prosecutors said that beginning in 2000, Beale told his superiors he needed to
take a day off each week because of his work for the CIA, and later told them he
was on assignment for the spy agency in Pakistan. But they didn't learn until
early this year that he had never worked for the CIA.

He didn't show up for work for six months in 2008, and ultimately conned the EPA
out of 2 ½ years worth of salary. He even was given a 25 percent retention bonus
that boosted his salary to $206,000 a year - and was still being paid more than
a year after he retired.

In court on Wednesday, Beale also cleared up a mystery: What was he doing when
he wasn't at his EPA desk?

"I spent time exercising. I spent a lot of time working on my house," he said.

Prosecutor James Smith told the court that Beale's "lies have turned him into a
poster child for what is wrong with the federal government."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Jig is up: Faux CIA agent John C. Beale leaves court Wednesday.
[Ron Sachs/CNP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 54 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday

Chancers & Prancers & Victims What boldfacers naughty and nice should have
gotten for Christmas

BYLINE: Richard Johnson

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 863 words


Happy Boxing Day! The day after Christmas, when every trash can is overflowing
with gift boxes and wrapping paper - except for the stuff saved for re-gifting
next year.

In England, where Boxing Day originated, it was a day off for servants, and the
day they received a "Christmas box" from the master and took it home to share
with their families. Probably leftovers from the noble feast. Income inequality
at its most heinous.

I have some leftovers, too - leftover thoughts on what some people should have
gotten for Christmas.

***

A cornucopia of thanks to Michael Bloomberg (below), Ray Kelly and even
Christine Quinn for keeping a steady hand on the tiller and leaving the city in
better shape than it was when they took office. Things could be a lot worse.

May they go on to bigger and better things, or just lower their golf handicaps.
They really deserve long vacations after battling their detractors and keeping
the peace.

***

A new boyfriend for voluptuous Kate Upton (right), who has split from her
"Dancing With the Stars" hunk Maksim Chmerkovskiy. He supposedly had to be in
Los Angeles for his acting career, while she had to be in New York for her
modeling. But I think she just never figured out how to spell his name.

She won't be lonely long.

***

A Pulitzer Prize for best hoax to Dan Rattiner of Dan's Papers in the Hamptons
for his latest masterpiece.

As I was paying for a Christmas tree on Saturday morning, the two guys at the
nursery in Hampton Bays were discussing the upcoming release of African lions by
a billionaire in Bridgehampton to eliminate the local deer population.

"What?" said I. "Yeah, he hired a lawyer, and found out it's legal," the
tree-seller explained. "It's in Dan's Papers."

Rattiner has also penned stories about a subway being built on the South Fork.

***

Mariah Carey (right) needs an atlas and a list of dictators to avoid the sort of
controversy she engendered with her $1 million performance for Angolan President
J osé Eduardo dos Santos on Dec. 15.

The longtime despot is accused of murdering political opponents and, even worse,
journalists. And this comes just five years after Mimi accepted a similar sum to
perform for terrorist-nurturing Libyan tyrant Moammar Khadafy.

Is there anyone Mariah wouldn't take money from now that Osama bin Laden is
dead?

***

A book on copyright law for Shia LaBeouf (right) so he can learn to stop
plagiarizing.

After the "Transformers" star made a short film adaptation of a graphic novel,
he was castigated for not crediting the author, Daniel Clowes, and trying to
pass the work off as his own.

Then, when he apologized, he ripped off another writer, or two or three,
including Charles Bukowski, Tiger Woods, Robert McNamara and Kanye West. Even
his Web site is a copy of Dan Nadel's PictureBox Web site.

Shia, you should know, you're not the only actor who can read.

***

Raspberries for the UN climate-change panel, which produced their second
scaremongering report, when the Earth hasn't been heating up for 17 years now,
and today when snow covers a full half of the US.

I'm not a denier, but if mankind is responsible for global warming, how come the
Earth was much warmer when the dinosaurs roamed, and when the Vikings were
settling in Greenland?

***

Sensitivity training for Phil Robertson, the patriarch of the "Duck Dynasty"
family. He should know that he is not allowed to express his religious beliefs
if they don't jibe with today's multicultural, all-inclusive agenda.

Phil and his family will probably make even more money on a new network if they
leave A&E, where execs are possibly regretting that they suspended Phil for his
odious comments on homosexuality.

But if he wants to stay on the air, he'd better learn that hillbillies aren't
allowed to insult city slickers.

***

More quantitative easing for Citibank in appreciation for its sponsorship of the
Citi Bike program.

Naysayers expected clueless tourists would get run over and die. They thought
the program would be crushed by ambulance-chasing litigators. They thought all
the bikes would get stolen. They were - OK, I was - wrong.

It's working, and it's expanding. I hope I'm wrong about ObamaCare, too.

***

A strand of pearls for Paris Hilton (above, right), a former wild child who has
become a demure model of comportment since turning 30.

With her porno tape and table-dancing days behind her, she hasn't even been
arrested lately.

The first-ever celebutard who was famous for being famous makes millions hawking
various products around the world. She's even more popular in Japan than
stateside.

If she is less interesting as an adult, her younger brother, ­Barron, is taking
up the slack.

***

Peace and joy to Robert De Niro, Sarah Jessica Parker, Liev Schreiber and Naomi
Watts, and all the other celebrities who live among us, going shopping, taking
the subway, taking their kids to school, without squads of bodyguards and
without attacking photographers.

You show that it's not necessary to surround yourself with all the trappings of
stardom. Your ego doesn't require constant affirmation. Bravo!

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Now single Kate Upton is looking for a new man in 2014. (Dave
Allocca/Starpix)Mariah Carey. (Getty Images)Paris Hilton. (Getty Images)Phil
Robertson, the patriarch of "Duck Dynasty," could use the gift of silence. (Zach
Dilgard)Mayor Bloomberg. Shia LaBeouf.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
