
                               1 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 5, 2012 Monday

Sea? It's all Mitt's fault!

BYLINE: ANDREA PEYSER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 663 words


MY, THAT was quick.

Hurricane Sandy had barely ripped through the region when hysterical politicians
and purveyors of junk science banded together and - aha! - located the reason
for the costly and tragic storm.

It was Mitt Romney.

Ridiculous.

Former President Bill Clinton didn't wait. The Democrat got onstage Tuesday at
the University of Minnesota and preached the purely partisan religion of
planetary cooking.

Clinton declared that Republican Romney, in the first presidential debate,
"ridiculed the president for his effort to fight global warming in economically
efficient ways,'' adding that the candidate said, mockingly, to President Obama,
"You're going to turn back the seas.''

Romney never said that.

The same day, ex-Vice President Al Gore, the Oscar-winning maker of a
science-fiction warming documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth,'' posted on his Web
site that Hurricane Sandy is "a disturbing sign of things to come."

"We must heed this warning and act quickly to solve the climate crisis,'' wrote
the Democratic Bozo of Ozone. "Dirty energy makes dirty weather."

Then, Hollywood's gas-guzzling Gulfstream-fliers colluded with New York
government pooh-bahs. Gov. Cuomo declared that the superstorm was man-made. It
was America's own, selfish fault.

"It's a longer conversation, but I think part of learning from this is the
recognition that climate change is a reality, extreme weather is a reality, it
is a reality that we are vulnerable," Cuomo, a Dem, said Wednesday.

"Climate change is a controversial subject, right? People will debate whether
there is climate change,'' he said. "That's a whole political debate that I
don't want to get into. I want to talk about the frequency of extreme weather
situations, which is not political.''

It was totally political for Mayor Bloomberg. On Thursday, in the midst of the
city's hurricane-recovery effort, the mayor endorsed President Obama in
tomorrow's election. In an opinion piece on Bloomberg View, he wrote, Obama had
a "history of tackling climate change.''

"One [candidate] sees climate change as an urgent problem that threatens our
planet,'' intoned Bloomberg, a Democrat-turned-Republican-turned-independent.
"One [Romney] does not."

But the rampant politicization of weather by folks who wouldn't know a
greenhouse gas from stomach gas ignores the fact that Democrat Obama, like
Romney, has said little to nothing about the hot-button issue during this
election cycle.

Correctly, the men realize that blaming America for storms, suggesting the
people sacrifice their cars and lights, while mega-polluting nations such as
China get a free pass, will alienate voters. More importantly, it will do
nothing to stop killer storms.

This is why climate change is debated passionately and obnoxiously by
doom-and-gloom sayers, like Gore, who don't have the power to change national
policies. The adults, and that includes the president, shut their yaps.

That differs from warming hypocrites like Bloomberg, whose private plane spews
many times the exhaust of an SUV hybrid. At the height of Gore's fame from his
global-warming movie, his Tennessee mansion drank 20 times the national average
of electricity and natural gas. (The shame-faced greenhouse guru later added
energy-saving solar panels to the manse.)

But warming experts (these exist) don't blame the hurricane on climate change.
Rising Arctic temperatures might have enlarged the area of high pressure that
pushed Sandy into a collision course with New Jersey, Jennifer Francis of
Rutgers University told The Associated Press. But she cautioned that it's
"unclear'' if warming had a thing to do with Sandy's wrath.

"Mostly, it's natural. I'd say it's 80, 90 percent natural,'' said Gerald North,
climate professor at Texas A&M University. "These things do happen, like the
drought. It's a natural thing.''

Are fierce storms man's fault? One thing's for sure.

You won't get the dope on Sandy from dilettantes.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mitt Romney as Neptune. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday

Rising seas lift 'Island' doc

BYLINE: V.A. Musetto

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 220 words


THERE's trouble in paradise. The Maldives - 1,200 tiny, low-lying islands in the
Indian Ocean, 200 of them inhabited - is a favorite tourist retreat. But
scientists warn that if ocean levels keep rising because of man-made climate
change, the islands could disappear within a decade.

Jon Shenk's documentary "The Island President" chronicles efforts to save the
islands by the charismatic Mohamed Nasheed, who in 2008 became the Muslim
nation's first democratically elected president. He took over from the dictator
Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, under whose reign Nasheed was jailed and tortured.

The film follows Nasheed as he travels the world making impassioned pleas for
changes in carbon emissions. His stops include the United Nations and a 2009
Copenhagen summit on climate change. Viewers get an eye-opening look at
behind-the-scene wrangling. Back home, media-savvy Nasheed holds an underwater
cabinet meeting to publicize his campaign.

An unexpected setback occurred last month - after the film was completed - when
Nasheed was ousted from the presidency in a coup. But this turn of events does
little to lessen the impact of "The Island President."

In English and Dhivehi, with English subtitles. Running time: 101 minutes. Not
rated (nothing objectionable). At Film Forum, 209 W. Houston St. Through April
10.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: As president of the Maldives, Mohamed Nasheed advocated for action on
climate change to help his island nation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 10, 2012 Wednesday

Tax hell makes NY dead last for biz

BYLINE: Erik Kriss and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 556 words


ALBANY - New York state's business-tax climate has gone from bad to worst.

The Empire State has dropped from an already terrible 49th place to last in the
nation in the latest Tax Foundation rankings, released yesterday.

New York and New Jersey swapped places in the conservative foundation's "2013
State Business Tax Climate Index" after New Yok moved down from 48th place last
year.

With New York irony, the foundation noted that Gov. Chris Christie improved New
Jersey's rank as promised - but only because the Empire State dropped.

Meanwhile, the libertarian Cato Institute gave Gov. Cuomo a "D" for his taxing
and spending record in a separate report yesterday that graded the nation's
governors on fiscal policy.

Both studies faulted New York for raising the state income-tax rate on
million-dollar earners to 8.82 percent this year, well above its originally
scheduled 6.85 percent rate.

In its 2012 "Fiscal Policy Report Card on America's Governors," Cato accused
Democrat Cuomo of breaking his 2011 State of the State promise to "hold the line
on taxes now and reduce taxes in the future."

Although Cuomo engineered a modest tax cut for $40,000- to $300,000-a-year
earners last December, the increase on seven-figure incomes meant a net $1.9
billion more out of New Yorkers' pockets.

"These tax hikes won't help the New York economy, which already suffers from
having the second- worst busi­ness-tax climate in the nation," Cato said.

Cuomo spokesman Matt Wing cited the middle- class tax cut, Cuomo's property-tax
cap, and state spending increases within 2 percent - the property- tax cap's
limit.

The state also eliminated the MTA payroll tax for 700,000 small-business owners.

"No one has done more" to turn New York's business climate around than Cuomo,
said Partnership for New York City President Kathryn Wylde, a Cuomo backer.

But New York's top small-business lobbyist said that there's still a long way to
go.

"Gov. Cuomo said two years ago that New York has no future as the tax capital of
the United States, but that's exactly what we are, and unless that changes, none
of the other reforms will matter," said Mike Durant, state director of the
National Federation of Independent Business. "We're leading the country in all
the wrong categories."

Cato credited Cuomo for holding the line on taxes and cutting benefits for new
government workers.

"But much more needs to be done to reduce government spending in New York," it
concluded.

The Tax Foundation noted New York's "moderate corporate taxes," but said the
state "scores at the bottom this year by having the worst individual income tax,
the sixth-worst unemployment-insurance taxes and the sixth-worst property
taxes."

It also faulted New York for the nation's highest cigarette tax ($4.35 per
pack), an alternative minimum tax on corporations, and high local sales taxes
(4.48 percent) and property taxes ($2,105 per person).

---

"New York has the worst individual income tax, the sixth-worst
unemployment-insurance taxes and the sixth-worst property taxes." -New report by
Tax Foundation

* Gov. Cuomo's grade from the Cato Institute, based on his spending and
tax-related actions since 2010: D

* Rank in FY 2012 49th

* Rank in FY 2013 50th

in terms of business climate

Source: Tax Foundation

ekriss@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gov. Andrew Cuomo. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday

Gov gets love for Sandy job

BYLINE: Erik Kriss

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 421 words


ALBANY - Sandy got the better of New York - but not of Gov. Cuomo.

As he made his first foray to Washington as governor yesterday, polls showed the
hurricane boosted the governor's already high standing with New Yorkers.

More than two-thirds of state voters approve of the way Cuomo handled the
superstorm, according to a Siena College poll.

He outdid both President Obama and Mayor Bloomberg, getting an "excellent" or
"good" review from 67 percent compared to 61 percent for the commander-in-chief
and 55 percent for Hizzoner.

The news came as the second-year governor, a potential 2016 Democratic
presidential contender, visited the White House and congressional leaders to
make his case for $42 billion in federal storm aid.

And Cuomo did even better in a Marist College poll released last night, winning
a whopping 82 percent thumbs-up for his handling of the storm from city
residents.

Government agencies - except the Long Island Power Authority - got good marks in
both polls.

The Siena poll found 69 percent attribute recent severe storms to global climate
change, while just 24 percent call them isolated weather events - with slightly
more Republicans siding with climate change than against.

Siena also found that 72 percent (82 percent in the city) favor a "major
infrastructure project" to protect the Big Apple from future storms.

Cuomo is seeking $9 billion from the feds to pay for long-term projects to
protect against future storm damage.

Marist found 58 percent of residents thought the city wasn't properly prepared
for the storm, with 19 percent, including three in 10 directly affected by
Sandy, saying they don't think the city will ever be the same.

Still, 7 in 10 Marist respondents approved of Bloomberg's handling of the storm,
while an astounding 85 percent gave Obama a thumbs-up.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie - who angered some fellow Republicans by
embracing Obama in his storm-ravaged state just before last month's elections -
got some big-time Big Apple love too, with Marist finding 81 percent approve of
his handling of the storm.

Cane, pain & gain

Gov. Cuomo is getting rave reviews for his response to Hurricane Sandy from New
Yorkers asked to rate the job performance of elected officials, agencies and
utilities during the disaster:

Rated exCelleNt oR Good:

Gov. Cuomo: 67%

President obama: 61%

Mayor Bloomberg: 55%

agencies and utilities:

Mta: 59%

FeMa: 53%

Con ed: 39%

lIPa: 20%

Source: Siena College Poll

ekriss@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : GOVERNOR CUOMO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday

Dinosaur ca'gas'trophe

BYLINE: Cynthia R. Fagen

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 152 words


Dinosaurs are getting the bum's rush.

Scientists already blame the gas the big guys passed for causing climate change
millions of years ago, and are now probing whether that gas was silent but
deadly, leading in part to the dinosaurs' extinction.

Using mathematical models, researchers at Scotland's St. Andrew's University say
billions of the giant reptiles collectively emitted 520 million tons of methane
a year, easily enough to warm the planet, The Sunday Times of London reported.

Plant-eating sauropods like the long-necked 90-ton Argentinosaurus - which
survived for 150 million years - ate a ton of food a day.

Worldwide, cattle and other livestock give off about 100 million tons of the
global-warming gas a year, but that's just a fifth of what billions of dinosaurs
sputtered.

Most scientists believe that a massive asteroid strike poisoned the atmosphere,
killing off the dinosaurs.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday

Not warm to gov's reasoning

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 136 words


Gov. Cuomo has found the cause for Hurricane Sandy, the catastrophic storm that
killed dozens: We are to blame.

"I think part of learning from this is the recognition that climate change is
reality," he said yesterday, pointing an accusatory finger at manmade pollution.
"Extreme weather is a reality. It is a reality that we are vulnerable. And if
we're going to do our job as elected officials, we're going to need to think
about how to redesign, or as we go forward, make the modifications necessary so
we don't incur this type of damage."

It makes politicians feel good to find a weather culprit, but scientists are
less likely to blame global warming for any one storm. And Cuomo never said what
humans can do to halt the wrath of nature.

I think freak storms come in cycles. Mother Nature cannot be cured.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

City deal a $core for Gore $16M pension contract

BYLINE: Chuck Bennett and Carl Campanile

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 565 words


Here's an inconvenient truth: New York is greening the wallet of Al Gore.

Embattled city Comptroller John Liu has delivered a $16.56 million contract to
the former vice president's environmentally friendly investment firm, Generation
Investment Management, to help manage hundreds of millions of dollars in city
pension funds, The Post has learned.

The Comptroller's Office had previously awarded Gore's firm $12.8 million in
pension-fund business under Liu's predecessor, Bill Thompson.

Since 2009, state Comptroller Tom DiNapoli has approved $6 million in contracts
to the firm, co-founded and chaired by Gore. Generation now manages nearly a
half-billion dollars of state pension-fund investments, records show.

In total, that's more than $35 million in greenbacks to Gore's firm.

Liu's office proposes investment-management contracts to the board of trustees
of the city's five major pension funds. Generation is an investment manager for
two of them: the New York City Employees Retirement System (NYCERS) and the
Police Pension Fund.

But the Gore connection has been a closely held secret.

One NYCERS trustee said he didn't even know Gore's firm was a city investment
manager.

"That's been way under the radar. I was unaware of it," said NYCERS trustee
Gregory Floyd, head of Teamsters Local 237.

Gore, who won a Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for his campaign to tackle global
warming, is a leading proponent of "sustainable capitalism." He focuses on the
long-term value of companies that address risks like climate change and slams
the market's obsession with short-term profits.

In a white paper released in February, Gore and his business partner, David
Blood, a former Goldman Sachs executive, recommended companies and investors
scrap the use of quarterly reports as benchmarks and provide financial rewards
to longer-term investors. He also said long-term climate-change and pollution
costs should be assigned to the values of oil, gas and coal companies.

Gore, a Democrat who won the popular vote but lost the presidency to Republican
George W. Bush in the disputed 2000 election, remains a formidable figure in the
Democratic Party - particularly on environmental concerns.

For Democratic politicians like Liu and DiNapoli who want to burnish their
credentials as environmentally responsible financial stewards, hiring Gore's
firm is like hitting a home run, analysts say.

"There's a lot of pressure on pension funds to be environmentally sensitive.
Gore's name and stature in the pension-fund community is invaluable -
particularly for Democrats. He's Al Gore!" said Bill Sannwald, a corporate
governance and ethics professor at San Diego State University.

A spokesman for Generation referred calls for comment to the city and state
comptroller.

Spokesmen for Liu and DiNapoli declined to comment on whether their bosses had
interacted with Gore before awarding his firm contracts, but they defended the
deals, saying the firm produced admirable returns on investments.

Liu spokeswoman Stephanie Hoo said Generation investments have earned a 22
percent return for the city. The firm has delivered a 32.7 percent return on its
state pension-fund investments since its hiring in 2009, records show.

Floyd, of the NYCERS board, said he had no objections to the Gore contract as
long as the firm produced solid returns.

chuck.bennett@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Getting green: A financial firm chaired by Al Gore, here in his film,
"An Inconvenient Truth," has been tapped to manage city pension funds. [AP]-JOHN
LIU Grants contract.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

Mike likes O for prez

BYLINE: David Seifman

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 115 words


In the middle of the city's hurricane recovery effort, Mayor Bloomberg yesterday
endorsed President Obama for re-election, citing his "history of tackling
climate change."

"One sees climate change as an urgent problem that threatens our planet, one
does not," the mayor wrote in an op-ed piece for his own news organization,
referring to Obama and Mitt Romney.

Bloomberg, who is an independent, described Romney as a "good and decent man."

But the mayor bemoaned Romney's changes of position on immigration, abortion,
health care and illegal guns.

"If the 1994 or 2003 version of Mitt Romney were running for president, I may
very well have voted for him,"  Bloomberg explained.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday

Post Focus on Commercial Real Estate Disaster housing holdup Too late for the
storm

BYLINE: and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 943 words


COMMISSIONER Joseph Bruno's Office of Emergency Management was preparing for
post-disaster housing back in 2007, but the wheels of government sometimes turn
too slowly - and after five years the prototypes are just becoming available,
and the first units are still at least a year away.

"I wish we had this built, but it was hard to fund it and hard to get interest
in it," Bruno told The Post yesterday. That should change post-Sandy.

"What If New York City?" was an architectural competition launched by OEM in
September 2007 to respond to the scenario that a hypothetical Category 3
hurricane would devastate a neighborhood, dubbed "Prospect Shore," with a surge
of water.

Architects were asked to design semi-permanent housing that would be immediately
needed for 18,000 people, while another 20,000 or so would need housing while
awaiting repairs.

"How can they be provided safe, comfortable living space? How can this housing
be quickly deployed and adapted to different site conditions? How can it be
reused in subsequent emergencies, environmentally sustainable, and cost
effective?" the instructions from Bruno asked entrants.

Lance Jay Brown, the independent architect who ran the jury competition, said
yesterday, "The good news is that something is happening, but the bad news is
that it didn't happen in time for [Sandy]."

Bruno said, "What they had [in the competition] was a concept, but what we now
have is a specification and sizing. We have architectural and engineering
drawings and are determining what the costs are going to be." Bruno would not
discuss pricing but was insistent that "we are not building $100,000 condos."

After Katrina, small cottages were developed by New Orleans that sold for around
$20,000, and sources said eventual pricing for the modules could be even lower
for New York City, based on volume.

Only about 10 trailers or cottages can be used per acre, but the idea for New
York was to have denser, multistory housing that could accommodate 200 families
per acre.

Out of about 140 entries from around the world, 10 entries were provided with a
stipend of $10,000 each to bring them closer to reality. Some proposals, of
course, were more wishful thinking - like the fanciful Cloud City that could be
hung over the original neighborhood - while others took a more practical,
serious approach.

Bruno's concept is to have the housing erected close to or in the original
neighborhood so that people can continue to go to their work or schools.

Jeffrey Murphy, a partner with Murphy Burnham Buttrick Architects, whose team
design was a finalist, said of OEM, "I wouldn't say they fell down but . . .
there were many architects that entered this competition, and it was a real
opportunity to push forward to coming up with a prototype. . . . They are not
being deployed today, and this was something that was considered."

Murphy's company concept, Community Provisional Residence, was a modular design
created from mold-resistant boating and surfer materials so it could be washed
down and reused.

Stored in its own box, he said one could be kept "behind every firehouse in the
country," and then brought to and assembled at the disaster site.

Another winner, Rapidly Deployable Inflatable Container, designed by Viraline's
James Vira and Jason Cadorette, could also be easily assembled into apartment
buildings.

Vira recalled that a Request for Qualifications was issued to find manufacturers
for "a couple of the more conventional designs" but was unaware of any
follow-up. Murphy also worked with a manufacturer and responded to the RFQ but
was left in the dark.

Brown said several of the ideas have finally been melded into one prototype that
was documented in a recent 70-page report. "The city was looking at
fabrication," he said. "There is a prototype that is under development. . . .
Nobody was under the impression that we were going to be whacked with Sandy last
week."

Nevertheless, a program on Design for Risk: Climate Change Adaptation in NYC was
presented in early September at the city's Center for Architecture, and city
officials discussed some of the architectural ideas that the city is floating to
mitigate future flooding and other climate-change problems.

On the morning of Oct. 29, as the city braced for Sandy, one of the speakers at
that event, E. Thaddeus Pawlowski, who oversaw the "What If NYC" competition for
OEM and is now at City Planning, tweeted, "I'm calling a mandatory evacuation of
Prospect Shore."

Bruno declined to identify the proposals that became the inspirations for the
prototype but noted they were modular.

He is unsure how soon the prototype can be manufactured or deployed, but expects
one will be developed very soon and observed for at least a year before going
into production.

"We are going forward with producing a prototype, and we were at the beginning
of that," he said yesterday.

"We have agreements with the [Army] Corps of Engineers and FEMA and all our city
partners," he said.

"We will build a prototype and test it for a year or so and come up with a
first-rate specification and publish it to the industry, and when we need
housing it would be helpful," said Bruno, noting this was also a program that is
a priority and will be a legacy for Mayor Bloomberg.

"This is a pretty aggressive program, but it has taken us a long time to get it
going," said Bruno.

So while Bruno and other city officials thought some five years ago that they
might need a major housing solution, that fact is little comfort today for
Sandy's cold and drenched citizen victims.

Lois@Betweenthebricks.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IF ONLY: Here's a look at emergency housing plans by Manhattan-based
Viraline Architecture that would reshape Red Hook, Brooklyn, after a Hurricane
Sandy-like disaster.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 13, 2012 Tuesday

Coffee a has-bean by 2080: climate study

BYLINE: Andy Soltis

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 187 words


The best part of waking up - may become extinct.

Some 99.7 percent of the most popular coffee bean, the arabica, is grown in
areas that could be unsuitable for the crop by 2080, a study has found.

"The extinction of Arabic coffee is a startling and worrying prospect," said
lead researcher Aaron Davis, a botanist with Britain's Royal Botanic Gardens.

Wild arabica beans are used to make about 70 percent of the world's coffee - and
they're the only ones that are used to make fresh-brewed coffee.

Another species of bean, the robusta, is commonly used in freeze-dried coffee.

Arabica beans may be doomed because they grow best in a narrow temperature
range, according to the study, which used computer modeling to analyze warming
scenarios.

Prime growing areas of the fragile plant, such as Kenya and Ethiopia, face an
increase of at least a few degrees by the end of the century, according to
climate-change authorities.

The British researchers said their prediction was conservative because it didn't
take into consideration other threats to coffee, like deforestation of crop
land, diseases and pests.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday

Romney rolls over Santorum Landslide in Illinois

BYLINE: Geoff Earle and

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 445 words


WASHINGTON - Mitt Romney won Illinois in a blowout yesterday, roaring past Rick
Santorum in a big industrial state and depriving him of one of his best
remaining chances for a game-changing upset.

"What a night!" said Romney as he addressed a group of supporters in suburban
Chicago.

With 98 percent of precincts reporting, Romney had grabbed 47 percent of the
vote, with Santorum at 35 percent. Ron Paul was at 9 percent and Newt Gingrich
got 8 percent.

Romney ran up big margins in Chicago and the surrounding suburbs, overpowering
Santorum, who prevailed in conservative downstate areas.

He also padded a delegate lead that looks increasingly insurmountable.

Illinois had long been considered a good demographic fit for Romney, but the
state became a battleground after Santorum scored big wins in Alabama and
Mississippi and came close - but fell short - in Michigan and Ohio.

It was the closest to a one-on-one match-up between the top rivals, with
Gingrich and Paul focusing efforts elsewhere.

A poll about a week ago showed Romney with a narrow 6-point lead, although he
appeared to blow that open after devoting more time to the state, as he and an
affiliated super PAC blasted Santorum on the airwaves and outspent him 7-to-1.

Romney congratulated his opponents on a "hard-fought contest," then laced into
President Obama - calling him "Professor Barack Obama" - and declared that in
November, "Our choice will not be about party or personality. This election will
be about principle."

The race now heads to Louisiana, where a poll yesterday gave Santorum a 13-point
lead among the state's overwhelmingly conservative and evangelical Republican
voters.

Speaking in Gettysburg, Pa., Santorum ripped Romney and Gingrich for past
support of climate-change efforts and health reforms, saying "ObamaCare" and
"RomneyCare" were "interchangeable."

"We don't need a manager. We need someone who's going to pull up government by
the roots and throw it out," Santorum said.

There were 54 delegates at stake in Illinois, although Santorum couldn't compete
for 10 of them after falling short in submitting required delegate slates in
some congressional districts.

Gingrich, who turned in one of his worst showings, said, "To defeat Barack
Obama, Republicans can't nominate a candidate who relies on outspending his
opponents 7-to-1."

Exit polls showed Romney cleaning up among voters who list electability as a top
issue, and he even beat Santorum among self-described conservatives and Tea
Party supporters.

---

Results from Illinois

Romney 47%

Santorum 35%

Paul 9%

Gingrich 8%

98% of precincts reporting

geoff.earle@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday

Romney rolls over Santorum Landslide in Illinois

BYLINE: Geoff Earle and

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 445 words


WASHINGTON - Mitt Romney won Illinois in a blowout yesterday, roaring past Rick
Santorum in a big industrial state and depriving him of one of his best
remaining chances for a game-changing upset.

"What a night!" said Romney as he addressed a group of supporters in suburban
Chicago.

With 98 percent of precincts reporting, Romney had grabbed 47 percent of the
vote, with Santorum at 35 percent. Ron Paul was at 9 percent and Newt Gingrich
got 8 percent.

Romney ran up big margins in Chicago and the surrounding suburbs, overpowering
Santorum, who prevailed in conservative downstate areas.

He also padded a delegate lead that looks increasingly insurmountable.

Illinois had long been considered a good demographic fit for Romney, but the
state became a battleground after Santorum scored big wins in Alabama and
Mississippi and came close - but fell short - in Michigan and Ohio.

It was the closest to a one-on-one match-up between the top rivals, with
Gingrich and Paul focusing efforts elsewhere.

A poll about a week ago showed Romney with a narrow 6-point lead, although he
appeared to blow that open after devoting more time to the state, as he and an
affiliated super PAC blasted Santorum on the airwaves and outspent him 7-to-1.

Romney congratulated his opponents on a "hard-fought contest," then laced into
President Obama - calling him "Professor Barack Obama" - and declared that in
November, "Our choice will not be about party or personality. This election will
be about principle."

The race now heads to Louisiana, where a poll yesterday gave Santorum a 13-point
lead among the state's overwhelmingly conservative and evangelical Republican
voters.

Speaking in Gettysburg, Pa., Santorum ripped Romney and Gingrich for past
support of climate-change efforts and health reforms, saying "ObamaCare" and
"RomneyCare" were "interchangeable."

"We don't need a manager. We need someone who's going to pull up government by
the roots and throw it out," Santorum said.

There were 54 delegates at stake in Illinois, although Santorum couldn't compete
for 10 of them after falling short in submitting required delegate slates in
some congressional districts.

Gingrich, who turned in one of his worst showings, said, "To defeat Barack
Obama, Republicans can't nominate a candidate who relies on outspending his
opponents 7-to-1."

Exit polls showed Romney cleaning up among voters who list electability as a top
issue, and he even beat Santorum among self-described conservatives and Tea
Party supporters.

---

Results from Illinois

Romney 47%

Santorum 35%

Paul 9%

Gingrich 8%

98% of precincts reporting

geoff.earle@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 20, 2012 Friday

'Arctic' doc puts itself on thin ice

BYLINE: Lou Lumenick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 190 words


THE rapid shrinking of the Arctic's ice cap due to global warming "has left
polar bears on thin ice,'' narrator Meryl Streep informs us in this superficial
3-D documentary from four-decade IMAX veteran Greg MacGillivray.

It takes about five minutes to detail the impact on a pair of cubs and their
mother, who is forced to make a sort of Sophie's Choice - though that term is
mercifully not used - to survive in an environment where food has become scarce
due to climate change.

Yes, there's some spectacular footage. But there's also an awful lot of filler
for a 40-minute movie, including a subplot about caribou (no sign of Sarah
Palin, though), some superfluous musical contributions from Sir Paul McCartney
and what looks like a clip from the 90-year-old documentary "Nanook of the
North.''

"To the Arctic'' may have its heart in the right place and entertain young
children, but when credits rendering the names of Streep and the crew as chunks
of ice break into shards, it is a pretty good indication of just how hokey
things will get.

Running time: 40 minutes. Rated G. At the Lincoln Square IMAX, Broadway and 68th
Street.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The superficial doc "To the Arctic" has spectacular footage of a polar
bear and her cubs, but is weighed down by filler.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday

Mike's Nov. 'surprise'

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 764 words


Fiorello La Guardia famously owned up to his blunders by saying that "when I
make a mistake, it's a beaut."

Unfortunately, the current occupant of the Little Flower's ­office can't bring
himself to admit error. Perhaps that's why he keeps making them during
emergencies.

Mayor Bloomberg's tin-eared ­obstinacy was in full bloom last week when, despite
the deadly destruction of Hurricane Sandy and the growing public-health crisis,
the Little Emperor insisted that the marathon go on. Only after The Post led the
revolt against him did he throw in the towel and call it off. Tellingly, he was
absent from public view when the announcement came.

His performance recalled his ­disastrous handling of the Christmas blizzard of
2010, when he belatedly returned to the snowed-in city and urged New Yorkers to
relax and see a Broadway show.

Nor was the marathon mess the only example of the mayor's incoherence last week.
The essay where he endorsed President Obama is a tangle of contradictions and
political dead ends. Professor Irwin Corey would be confused.

Bloomberg starts by saying the devastation of Sandy "has brought the stakes of
Tuesday's presidential election into sharp relief."

Huh? The campaign has been red hot for a year over the economy and now because
Breezy Point burned and lower Manhattan got walloped, Bloomberg thinks this is
what the race should be about?

Yet, after raising the issue of climate change, he says he's not sure if extreme
weather is part of the result but says the devastation in New York still "should
compel all elected leaders to take immediate action."

Yikes - that is the sound of common sense being thrown out the window to serve
politically correct science. Let's spend gazillions of dollars and put the oil,
gas and coal industries in a hammerlock on the off chance Al Gore is right that
our lifestyle causes hurricanes.

After calling Obama a leader on the issue, the mayor criticizes Mitt Romney for
"abandoning the cap-and-trade program he once supported." He doesn't mention
that Obama also abandoned cap-and-trade because it's wildly unpopular, or that
the president's green-energy subsidies are a multibillion-dollar scandal
involving the pay-to-play favoritism Bloomberg usually rails against.

Nor does the mayor's environmental epiphany come with any promise to reduce his
own carbon footprint, so his mansions, jets and fleet of SUVs are safe.

After torturing the carbon argument, the mayor actually torches Obama's record,
saying he failed to build a coalition to deal with immigration, jobs, tax reform
and deficit reduction. He also accuses Obama of embracing "a divisive populist
agenda focused more on redistributing income than creating it."

He's absolutely right - and a perfect summary of why the president does not
deserve four more years.

But, ignoring his own insights and without citing cap-and-trade, Bloom­berg
endorses Obama by saying that if the president "listens to people on both sides
of the aisle and builds the trust of moderates, he can fulfill the hope he
inspired four years ago."

Right, and if pigs had wings, they could fly.

In some circles, the mayor's support for Obama is seen as a surprise. It
shouldn't be.

They are both Big Government liberals who favor endless tax hikes and increased
regulation. Bloom­berg was a Democrat who became a Republican of convenience to
run for mayor, and then an independent as he flirted with running for president
in 2008 as a third-party candidate. His erratic wandering paints him as an
opportunist rather than a true independent, and the endorsement fits the
pattern.

His ambition is at the heart of it. The mayor is bored in his 11th year at City
Hall and thinks he should be president himself. He also owes Obama, who
refrained from endorsing Bloom­berg's Democratic opponent in 2009.

Because of that debt and his lefty inclinations, there was no chance Bloomberg
would back Romney. The only puzzle is why the mayor waited so long to get where
he was going all along - with Obama.

The most compelling answer is that Bloomberg held out, hoping to play kingmaker.
He had to believe he could deliver a late boost in a close race and earn himself
a top job in a second Obama term, or at least an offer he could publicly refuse.
If Obama were trailing badly, the mayor would have kept quiet.

Finally, don't underestimate the attraction of making news about something other
than the misery so many New Yorkers are suffering through. At least for a few
hours, he was larger than just the burned-out mayor of a devastated city.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : Mayor Bloomberg in President Obama tee shirt, "I Guess."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday

Frankenstorm: The Aftermath Trending hot topic

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 56 words


A rec­ord 68 percent - or seven in 10 - Americans deem global warming a somewhat
or very serious problem, according to a poll taken after Hurricane Sandy leveled
much of the Northeast.

But the Rasmussen survey's respondents split on the cause of climate change,
with 41 percent citing human activities and 38 percent planetary trends.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 7, 2012 Friday

Hurricane's space odyssey

BYLINE: Rita Delfiner

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 158 words


Even from 512 miles up, Sandy looks scary.

NASA has released dazzling night images made by a satellite high over the
Earth's surface that provide a look of Frankenstorm Sandy illuminated by
moonlight as she makes landfall over New Jersey on the evening of Oct. 29.

The ''Black Marble'' look at night lights across the Earth are composite images
assembled from data captured by a new sensor aboard the NASA-NOAA Suomi National
Polar-orbiting Partnership satellite, which was launched last year.

The sensor is so sensitive, it can spot "the light from a single ship in the
sea,'' NASA said.

The sensor, which is the "day-night band of the visible infrared imaging
radiometer suite,'' also caught a nighttime look at the Nile River Valley and
Delta and the post-Sandy darkness caused by widespread power outages.

NASA said the goal of the project is to improve weather forecasts and get data
that help understand long-term climate changes.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Satellite of Hurricane Sandy from space. [MAI / Splash News]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday

Election season's finally over

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 808 words


CLIMATE change? How about presidential change?

Three newspapers in New York. All ballyhoo'd Romney.

Our War of Independence didn't last as long as this election.

Fund-raisers, rallies, debates, polls, ads, videos, sound bites, pit stops, bus
stops, baby kisses, handshakes, interviews, candidates' wives shipped out to
burble something someone wrote for them - done.

Obama's hair got grayer. His rolled-up shirt-sleeves got shorter. His wife's
upper arms got firmer. Mitt? Warmer, friendlier, presidentialer.

Also burbles begin about the three C's - Cuomo, Clinton and Christie's - future
employment. If Christie stops crying over Springsteen. The Boss recognizing the
Gov. made Christie blubber like somebody swiped his third helping of junket. And
at least it's time for dead bodies in Chicago to stop voting.

MEANTIME, a word about Long Island Power Authority. Angry voices growl: "They'll
be held responsible for outrageous delays in regaining power."

Board appointees include Spitzer, Paterson, Pataki holdovers. Its CEO resigned
two years ago. No successor's been appointed. LIPA . . . has . . . no . . .CEO.

So who are "They"???

ANOTHER meantime. Apologies to my paper, which I love and my city, which I love:

Enough knocking Bloomberg. A great mayor, he puts his own money behind what he
believes. The worry is for after he leaves. A fine group - except for lousy Liu
- are panting for his job. They're my friends - except for lousy Liu. Still, it
ain't easy following Mike.

Giuliani even supported continuing the Marathon. Rudy, by the way, was in
Australia last week when I was. Ditto Kim Kardashian's mama schlepping around
with Khloe. So Hizzoner erred in judgment? Hey, we all make mistakes. Everybody
makes a mistake. The lone exception, of course, being me. Of course.

ABOUT yesterday's voting procedure: Companies track every recording bought at a
cashier anywhere anytime via record scan. High school tekkies with an ID
register opinions via computer. Either way, in 10 minutes who got what is known.

Yesterday was insanity. First, endless line to determine your residential
district - instead of pre-posting this information on a wall. Then, waiting on
your district line where annoyed workers (one chatted on a cell) wouldn't answer
what's next. Next meant another line to fill in your paper ballot. Like how Fred
and Wilma Flintstone must have elected their musk ox. And handed to you in an
open manila folder shorter than the ballot itself, which kept slipping out.

Some folders bore the printed word "privacy." Mine didn't. This "privacy" vote
was clearly visible as you stood around waiting. A third line was to scan this
paper ballot. You felt you were in a Third World country.

And zero efficiency. Minus my signature, one clerk dismissed me. Later I had to
be located to sign my name.

All was so slipshod and lengthy that people left without voting. And with this
new Sandy mess, lifting restrictions on exactly where your local Board of
Elections was meant anyone could go anywhere, sign anything, prove nothing and
vote in multi locations.

And how about this archaic outmoded 18th-century Electoral College shtick? Why
not some constitutional amendment to amend it?

HAVE some beauties quoted by some of our pols:

Al Gore, when vice president, visited Thomas Jefferson's Monticello home.
Viewing Jefferson, Washington, Franklin and Lafayette busts, he said - as CNN
cameras rolled: "Who are these guys?"

Elder George Bush on his advice to Sen. Bob Dole's debating Bill Clinton: "Well,
I don't know. I thought I did well. But then maybe I didn't. So I don't know. I
feel good about it, though. I really do."

Dan Quayle, who for 10 minutes ran for president: "Rural Americans are real
Americans. You can't always be sure with other Americans. Not all of them are
real."

California Gov. Jerry Brown on Page 5 of "The Stupidest Things Ever Said by
Politicians": "I see the world in very fluid, contradictory, emerging,
interconnected terms, and with that kind of circuitry I just don't feel the need
to say what is going to happen or will not happen."

Richard Daley, pre-Rahm Emanuel mayor of Chicago: "They have vilified me, they
have crucified me. Yes, they have even criticized me."

Newt Gingrich on Bill Clinton: "We talked about mostly where we're going . . .
towards the future . . . he and I are both into that, you know."

Sen. John Kerry (who prepped Obama for his first debate): "When you pull the
files out, the briefcase closes shut. You can't see in it. I can't see in it.
Nobody could see in it."

LACKING electricity, lights - and water, this lady at least had money. And
class. She grabbed a whole bottle of Piper-Heidsieck, uncorked it and swished
the whole thing into the toilet to flush it.

Only in Sandy-ized New York, kids, only in Sandy-ized New York.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday

ON THE MONEY 20/20 scoop on 40/40 Jay-Z spends big bucks on sports bar revamp

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 766 words


Now that Jay-Z is a daddy, the hip-hop mogul may not be watching as much sports
as he used to. But he's sure got the digs to do so when he's ready.

The entrepreneur will unveil his revamped nightclub/sports bar 40/40 on
Wednesday with a slew of celebs including A-Rod.

Jay-Z and his partner in the "luxury sports club," Juan Perez, opened 40/40 back
in 2003. They've just spent $10 million to transform it, including more than a
million in audio and video installations.

The sound system is a small arena system like the Hammerstein Ballroom, and the
lead designer, J effrey Beers, said he has drawn on the "energy, grandeur and
opulence of NYC night life."

What's new? Custom-illuminated amber resin bar tops, illuminated bottle-display
towers, leather wall upholstery, plush lounge banquettes and giant television
screens, as well as a second floor catwalk so guests can ogle each other.

The club's four VIP rooms also got a make-over, with custom chandeliers, oak
paneling with silver leaf molding, oak-wood floors, custom billiard tables and
bespoke lounge seating; an extra VIP room was also added.

Jay-Z's private room is the biggest of the five VIP rooms by far at 950 square
feet compared with the other rooms, that are a paltry 250 square feet each. "In
Jay-Z's room you can be in your own club, with 100 guests," said a spokeswoman.

Guests can order from a new menu by Jay-Z's personal chef, Mike Shand, who is
amping up the sports-bar menu and taking typical sports food like wings and
tacos "to the next level." Julie Earle-Levine

Shame game

Fox Searchlight's "Shame" is becoming a hit at the box office as well as on the
awards circuit despite its seemingly problematic NC-17 rating.

Although a handful of theater chains refused to show the film about a Manhattan
man dealing with sex addiction, "Shame" has been a steady ticket performer,
grossing $2.5 million in the US since its release last month. Figuring in
international ticket sales, the $6.5 million film has made $4.3 million
worldwide.

Lead actor Michael Fassbender has also received acclaim for his revealing
performance opposite Carey Mulligan (photo), including a Best Actor nomination
at tonight's Golden Globes.

We caught up with Fassbender at last week's National Board of Review Awards,
where he was recognized for his work in four films. He told us that he finds
"Shame's" success "really encouraging," suggesting that some audiences aren't
dissuaded by the movie's risqué subject matter.

"I've always felt that there are intelligent audiences out there that like to be
challenged and actually come to the cinema and do a little bit of work
themselves," Fassbender said. "And I think this sort of proves that theory:
Audiences aren't stupid; they don't need to be spoon-fed." - Hilary Lewis

Stein's way

Ben Stein claims in a suit that you can't take my money. The former Nixon
speechwriter alleges he's a victim of political discrimination by Kyocera Corp.
and New York ad agency Seiter & Miller Advertising, in Los Angeles Superior
Court this week.

The conservative spokesman says in the suit that his position on climate change
had him frozen out of a $300,000 acting gig, only to be replaced by a
look-alike.

He's charging breach of contract, wrongful discharge and emotional distress over
his contract being canceled because of his stated views that the cause of global
warming is still to be determined and may not be man-made. - Post staff

Retail recap

Where are all the wunderkinder in retail, those plucky upstarts that have seen
big growth spurts despite the economy's tough tests? Tomorrow, a few - including
top execs from Gilt Groupe, Under Armour and Whole Foods - will be hashing
through their successes and failures at Financo's annual retail seminar.

"This year, we looked for new, exciting companies that weren't around 10 years
ago, or that have seen significant growth in last 10 years," Financo Chairman
Gilbert Harrison told OTM.

Featured trailblazers will include Christopher Burch who, having co-founded the
wildly successful Tory Burch label with its namesake designer - his ex-wife - is
now courting controversy with a new venture.

Above all, the cocktail gathering serves as a warm-up for deal-makers in the
fashion and consumer niches. "People are trying to find brands with
international potential and growth," says Financo CEO Colin Welch, adding that
he's particularly optimistic there will be a rash of deals in the health and
beauty niches. "Absent any shocks to the system, the markets appear to be
cooperating." - James Covert

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : CAREY MULLIGAN. (Splash News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

'Fine' film deals with anger

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 769 words


Coming next month is Chazz Palminteri in filmdom's mighty fine drama "Mighty
Fine."

"I play a Jewish man in the schmatta business who loses his family, business and
moves to New Orleans," he said.

So, not his usual shoot-em-'up-knock-'em-down "A Bronx Tale" gangster stuff?

"No. This one's different. Great guy who's bipolar. Rage issues. Mental issues.
Finally regains his health satisfaction."

And how does one learn to play such a role?

"I had a wonderful 'Ozzie and Harriet' type family. But my grandfather had a
terrible temper. Scary. I saw results of his rage issues. See, no shrink or
medication for that in the old days. I also had a friend who suffered with it.
Debbie Goodstein, who wrote and directed this, her first movie, based some on
her own father.

"In one scene kids jump in the pool naked, and my character, thinking this is
disrespectful, freaks out. Upset, he starts screaming, grabs his hunting rifle
and shouts, 'I'll count to 10 then start shooting.' This takes lots of emotion
for an actor.

"Seeing the dailies, I view myself as another person. Something inside me says,
'What's he doing? . . . Why's he doing these things? . . . He can't do that . .
. Cut that scene . . .' "

Meantime, when Chazz gets old and silver-haired, his kids can keep him. Both are
in show business. Gabriella is an actress/singer. Son Dante, a guitar-playing
lead singer with his band Kaymus.

And on the side, between movies, Chazz hustles food. In Baltimore.

"That city needed a great Italian restaurant. Friends wanted to open one, so I
suggested a fresh pasta and pizza place, which we called A Bronx Tale. We're
opening another in Vegas. Next maybe New York."

Yeah, good idea. We're almost considered a major city nowadays.

EASTER's coming. The Hollywood set's bringing out a line of Mickey Rourke
"Scratch 'n' Sniff" greeting cards.

DIANA Nyad's 70-hour, 103-mile nonstop Cuba to Key West swim was twice aborted.
Unexpected winds forced her to be pulled from the sea. Then climate changes
produced jellyfish colonies, which stung and poisoned her.

She told me: "I'll try once more. St. Martin's the right water temperature. I'm
training there regularly. I first stayed in that water eight hours. Then nine.
Now 12. Each time longer."

At Un Deux Trois, nibbling only salad and four calamari: "Worst is salt water on
your lips. Despite protective grease, they crack and swell."

Worst? What about sharks?

"I had those, too, but in boats alongside with 55 - doctors, handlers, press,
specialists feeding me through tubes - they were able to repel them. Food,
airfare, housing that whole crew is costly. I need to raise $300,000 for this
next trip."

Why another trip? She's 62. And, having lost so much weight, now has to build
herself back up. Why not just collect stamps for a hobby?

"Look, people my age think it's all over for them. I can't allow myself to fall
into disuse. I must try. But only this one last time. After this, I'm done.

"Cuba, sensitive about people wanting to leave there, prefer I swim to Cuba not
from there, but that doesn't work with the current."

Poo on sharks and jellyfish. Nyad's future outing will take on New York's
critics. She's readying a one-woman show.

LET it be known: 100 years ago a man's life expectancy was 47. Only 14 percent
of homes had a bathtub. It was 8,000 cars, 144 miles of paved road, city speed
limits 10 mph. Eggs - 14 cents a dozen. Average hourly wage - 22 cents. Vegas'
population topped out at 30. Your local friendly drugstore sold marijuana over
the counter.

MAYORAL hopeful Scott Stringer showing photos of his baby at a party . . . Janet
McTeer, Best Supporting nominee for "Albert Nobbs": "No surprise I didn't win. I
always knew it had to be Octavia for 'The Help.' There was no doubt.". . .
Mariska Hargitay keeps a big pink bunny suit in her closet. "It was grandma's.
She gave it to me, and I won't throw it out. I'll wear it Easter and wiggle the
ears."

ON one in décolleté at a 10 a.m. event, TV's "It's a Brad Brad World" Brad
Goreski: "Nice afternoon outfit would be better. Not everyone has to be over the
top. Maybe she feels freedom to wear cocktail clothes because it's a fashion
show." . . . Nicole Kidman: "I want a male role. I'd love to play a boy once."
The gender change goes to her childhood because "my father wanted sons but got
daughters."

DUDE entering AMC Loews Lincoln Square movie theater on 68th and B'way while
hollering into his phone: "Trust me, the last thing I'd ever want to do is hurt
you . . . but it's still on my list."

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday

In My Library Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger

BYLINE: Barbara Hoffman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 252 words


The Price of Civilization by Jeffrey Sachs

I often talk about how I got certain important values from my parents'
generation. In WWII, even those who weren't serving in the armed forces were
affected by rationing and other sacrifices. Today we have the luxury of thinking
about duty as an abstraction. Sachs talks about the responsibility each of us
has to make this civilization work.

Retirement Heist by Ellen Schultz

Having been on the receiving end when our pensions at US Airways were
terminated, I was shocked at how virtually every major American company was able
to raid pensions, even those that were fully funded. People went out of their
way to steal from people. This book is an indictment of our entire retirement
system.

The Art of Happiness by Dalai Lama and Dr. Howard Cutler

I'm not big on self-help books, but I'm always looking for a way to be a better
father, a better husband, a better person. This book combines Asian philosophy
with Western science to explain how the brain works, and how you can make
yourself a less self-centered person.

The Demon-Haunted World by Carl Sagan

We live in a world where technological change is so rapid that unless you're
curious, it's hard to keep up. What Carl Sagan tries to do is make science
interesting and relevant. It's a civic duty to be scientifically literate.
Whether it's about climate change or food additives, we have the responsibility
to be informed consumers. If we all read a good newspaper each week, it would be
a start.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHESLEY SULLENBERGER. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Toll-hike plan may be Thru [Exclusive] Gov fears harm to biz

BYLINE: Fredric U. Dicker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


GOV . CUOMO might roll back or eliminate a proposed massive hike in New York
State Thruway commercial tolls as the leaders of the Legislature, for the first
time, have come out against the plan.

Sources told The Post that Cuomo is reviewing the Thruway's plan to hike tolls
45 percent beginning Sept. 30 in an effort to raise an additional $90 million
annually from trucks and other commercial vehicles. Some of the new revenue
could be earmarked for Cuomo's proposed $5 billion-plus new Tappan Zee Bridge.

State business leaders and the New York Farm Bureau have been warning for weeks
that the toll hike could severely harm the already-struggling upstate business
climate and add to the state's reputation as hostile to business, a reputation
Cuomo says he's trying to change.

"The governor is going to take a hard look at the toll hikes. He knows the
impact it could have, and he's concerned and wants to see what could be done,''
said a source close to the administration.

A main concern for the governor, the source said, is the possibility that
Thruway bonds may be downgraded by Wall Street rating agencies if a strong
alternative source of revenue isn't found.

Meanwhile, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver (D-Manhattan) and Senate Majority
Leader Dean Skelos (R-Nassau), in their first public comments on the proposal,
told The Post they want to see the toll hike canceled.

"I think the proposal is far out of line,'' Silver said.

"We don't want people to avoid our highways, which do attract business to the
state. If trucks have to pay additional charges, it's only going to be reflected
in what consumers pay.

"I'm sure the [Thruway] Authority could look at making economies, including
refinancing some of its debt with the lower interest rates out there,'' Silver
continued.

Skelos said New Yorkers "have had it with high taxes and want government to be
more efficient. Therefore, I do not support higher taxes, fees or tolls."

"We need to do even more to help business succeed, grow and create jobs here in
New York, not put more obstacles in their way,'' he said.

n

Meanwhile, Cuomo, aware that the legislative leaders fear that talk of a pay
hike for lawmakers could sink some members running for re-election in November,
won't raise the matter any more with them until after the November ballot.

An administration insider said, "There are some people wanting to push the
matter of a special session for pay raises now, but the governor doesn't plan to
bring it up until after the election.''

Several state lawmakers, including Silver and, most recently, Assemblyman Joseph
Morelle (D-Rochester), a close Cuomo political ally, have been publicly urging a
pay raise, noting lawmakers have not had a salary adjustment since 1999.
Lawmakers now receive a "base pay'' of $79,500 a year, but many make
substantially more than that with extra "leadership'' stipends. A new base pay
of just over $100,000 has been discussed.

fredric.dicker@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

SENSATION GOES LINTERNATIONAL TORONTO GOES ALL OUT TO WELCOME JEREMY'S TRAVELING
CIRCUS

BYLINE: and MARC BERMAN

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 683 words


TORONTO -The Jeremy Lin Traveling Circus took Canada by storm yesterday as the
Knicks' new global icon called the last 10 days "a miracle from God'' at a
specially arranged press conference at yesterday's morning shootaround at the
Air Canada Centre.

A voracious Toronto media pounded Lin with questions about his "Linderella''
story and the Raptors organization hosted "Asian Heritage Night" as the Knicks
brought their five game "Linning streak'' north of the border.

Toronto is home to a community that is 11 percent Chinese.

Seventy extra media credentials were issued for last night's game.

Sixteen cameras were in place for the morning presser to cover the first Chinese
American to play in the NBA.

Twenty five Asian media outlets in Toronto were denied access to the shootaround
because of space, with the Raptors setting up two Asian journalists to serve as
pool reporters.

Mike D'Antoni was asked if Lin should be added to the All Star Game. Raptors
coach Dwane Casey was asked 12 straight questions about Lin and none about his
team.

"The Unlikely Mr. Lin'' was scrawled in a headline with a big picture across the
cover of Canada's national newspaper, The Globe and Mail, and Lin was a cover
story for the Toronto Star.

He's become an international phenomenon and will grace the cover of this week's
"Sports Illustrated." The Asian Night was set up before Jeremy Lin became a
sensation because of Toronto's demographic makeup. However, it was originally
scheduled for March 7 when the Rockets came to town.

It was changed to last night after the Rockets waived Lin on Christmas Eve.

A sellout crowd of 19,000 was expected for just the second time this season.

"You couldn't write a better story, you couldn't write a better script for a
movie,'' said Casey, who had Lin on his Dallas summer league team when Lin out
played John Wall in Las Vegas.

"Unfortunately, Amare's [Stoudemire] brother had some bad fortune, Carmelo
[Anthony] gets hurt. Jeremy comes up. Someone had to score. He does a great job
taking over and fitting in well with Tyson [Chandler]. It's a script that movie
directors would like to get their hands on.'' Lin entered last night undefeated
since getting major playing time 10 days ago against the Nets.

He scored at least 20 points and seven assists in his first four starts - the
only NBA player to ever accomplish it.

"I think it's a miracle from God,'' said Lin, who has been compared to Tim Tebow
because of his underdog status and religious bent and ambition of becoming a
preacher.

"It's the way I'd describe it. Obviously I don't think anyone expected this to
happen the way it happened. It's a miracle anytime something like this happens.
A lot of stuff has to be put in place and a lot of it is out of my control.''
Boxer Floyd Mayweather made a controversial tweet about Lin, writing that Lin is
only getting this much attention because of his heritage and not his basketball
skill.

"I'm not really too concerned with what anyone says,'' Lin said.

D'Antoni snickered when asked by a Canadian journalist if he should be placed
into the All Star Game.

"It's only five games,'' D'Antoni said. "He's playing well, playing at a very
high level. He still has improvement to do. He had eight turnovers [in
Washington].

There's things he can get better at.'' Does D'Antoni believe this will last?

"He's the real deal,'' D'Antoni said. "You don't do this in five games. He's an
NBA player.

Whether he's the level of the [All Stars] we'll see. Sometimes it takes four,
five years to get to that level.'' There is a concern the global hype is out of
hand, but D'Antoni doesn't think it'll affect Lin as he hits the cover of Sports
Illustrated.

"This is a moment he'll cherish,'' D'Antoni said. "It's a great opportunity. I
don't think he'll blow it. He's too smart. We're dealing with a highly
intelligent kid.'' Last night Stoudemire joined the bandwagon after his week
long grieving of his dead brother.

Nobody is too worried about Stoudemire hurting the chemistry.

As Lin said, "He's lethal on the pick and roll.''

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : FEEL THE LOVE: Fans in Toronto get caught up in the Linsanity. ROOTS
OF SUCCESS: Jeremy Lin, during pregame warm-ups last night, was the center of
attention as the Raptors hosted "Asian Heritage Night." (Jeff Zelevansky (2))

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Future prez had so much 'sexual warmth' - but was 'out of reach' NY flame dishes
on young RomeO

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1730 words


Long before he was courting voters, a young Barack Obama was a 22-year-old
college grad in New York who knew how to seduce young women while he struggled
with his own racial identity.

Excerpts of David Maraniss' biography, "Barack Obama: The Story," in Vanity Fair
portray the future president as a smooth operator - disarming and engaging with
the ladies yet guarded and detached.

In a series of diary entries from one of his lovers here in the Big Apple, a
never-before-seen side of the now-guarded president is revealed - with
descriptions of his "sexual warmth" and his penchant for lounging at home in a
sarong.

Then-girlfriend Genevieve Cook made it abundantly clear in her diary entries,
included with excerpts of the book posted on Vanity Fair's Web site yesterday,
that he spoke softly - and used his charm to win her over.

"The sexual warmth is definitely there - but the rest of it has sharp edges, and
I'm finding it all unsettling and finding myself wanting to withdraw from it all
. . ." Cook, then 25, wrote.

But she also sees hints of the future Obama, known for his reserve and
guardedness.

"His warmth can be deceptive. Tho he speaks sweet words and can be open and
trusting, there is also that coolness - and I begin to have an inkling of some
things about him that could get to me."

Obama, then 22, had months earlier graduated from Columbia and was living in New
York contemplating his next move. He scored a date with Cook while the two were
plopped on an orange beanbag chair at a Christmas party in the East Village in
December 1983.

His soon-to-be girlfriend recalled being smitten with a guy named Barack wearing
blue jeans, a T-shirt and a dark leather jacket.

They had much in common, including their global upbringing. Obama spent time in
Indonesia as a boy; Cook was Australian. Her father, Michael Cook, was an
Australian diplomat and her mother, art historian Helen Ibbitson, came from a
prominent banking family in Melbourne.

They both felt like outsiders.

Passion burned after an intense discussion of shared experiences. They slipped
each other phone numbers on scraps of paper, Cook said.

They hooked up days later for some love-making.

"I'm pretty sure we had dinner maybe the Wednesday after. I think maybe he
cooked me dinner," Cook said.

"Then we went and talked in his bedroom. And then I spent the night. It all felt
very inevitable," she said.

Cook wrote in her diaries she was enveloped by Obama's "sexual warmth" - even
the smell of him while staying at his rent-controlled, three-bedroom apartment
at 622 W. 114th St.

She talked about how Obama walked around his bedroom bare-chested, dressed in a
blue and white sarong while working on a New York Times crossword puzzle.

"I open the door that Barack keeps closed to his room and enter in a warm,
private space pervaded by a mixture of smells that so strongly speak of his
presence, his liveliness, his habits - running sweat, Brut spray deodorant,
smoking, eating raisins, sleeping, breathing," Cook wrote.

Obama and Cook would date for a year. He was 22 and she was 25 when they met.

Cook said when she told Obama she loved him, he responded: "Thank you."

Obama even briefly moved into Cook's Prospect Park, Brooklyn, apartment and they
celebrated Christmas together in 1983, before the two parted ways.

In his memoir "Dreams from My Father," Obama provides sketchy details of his
time in New York. He mentioned "there was a woman in New York that I loved" but
never mentioned her name.

The New York girlfriend's identity had never been previously revealed. And in an
interview with Obama in the Oval Office, he admitted to Maraniss that the woman
in his memoir was a "compression" of two girlfriends, including another he dated
later in Chicago.

The composite character was used by Obama to "emphasize a racial chasm that
unavoidably separated him from the woman he described as his New York
girlfriend," Maraniss wrote.

The biography captures a crucial point in Obama's life when he struggled with
his own racial identity - Cook was white - before finally settling on his place
in life as a black American.

But the poetic, young Barack gushed about the mutual attraction. "She was white.
She had dark hair, and specks of green in her eyes. Her voice sounded like a
wind chime," Obama said in his book.

Cook admitted to being both enthralled and vexed by the Sphinx-like Obama. But
the infatuation and hot romance was tempered by Obama's cool, inner distance,
which worried Cook.

Obama's guardedness was a theme that a frustrated Cook included in her diary
entries time and again. She called it Obama's "veil" and "smoothed veneer."

"I feel that you carefully filter everything in your mind and heart . . . Barack
still intrigues me, but so much going on beneath the surface, out of reach.
Guarded, controlled."

Cook presciently predicted that Obama would eventually settle on living his life
as a black man with a black woman.

She said Obama confided about his "adolescent image of a perfect ideal woman"
and how he had searched for that woman "at the expense of hooking up with
available girls."

"I can't help thinking that what he would really want, be powerfully drawn to,
was a woman, very strong, very upright, a fighter, a laugher, well-experienced -
a black woman I keep seeing her as," Cook said.

"Barack leaving my life - at least as far as being lovers goes. In the same way
that the relationship was founded on calculated boundaries and carefully,
rationally considered developments, it seems to be ending along coolly
considered lines," she said.

Before Cook, Obama had another flame, Alex McNear, whom he initially met at
Occidental College in Los Angeles, according to the bio.

McNear kept copies of letters she exchanged with Obama and that are included in
Maraniss' new tome.

Obama wrote McNear a detailed critique about T.S. Eliot's poem "The Waste Land."

"Remember how I said there's a certain kind of conservatism which I respect more
than bourgeois liberalism - Eliot is of this type," he wrote her.

And Obama shared a bit of his own poetry with her.

"Moments trip gently along over here. Snow caps the bushes in unexpected ways,
birds shoot and spin like balls of sound. My feet hum over the dry walks. A
storm smooths the sky, impounding the city lights, returning to us a dull yellow
glow," he said in a cross-country letter.

McNear later hooked up with him in New York during the summer of 1982, when he
resided at 142 W. 109th St. She rented an apartment on 90th Street.

"I remember thinking how happy I felt talking to him, that I could talk to him
for hours," McNear said of reacquainting at an Italian restaurant on Lexington
Avenue. "After that we started spending much more time together," she said.

McNear said Obama seemed obsessed with the choices he would make in life.

Obama told Maraniss that at the time it was a "deliberate effort on my part to
press the pause button, essentially, and try to orient myself and say, "OK,
which way, where am I going?"

It was during his time in New York that Obama eventually found his way after
years of internal struggle, said his friend, Beenu Mahmood, with whom Obama was
close while in New York.

Obama, he said, was "the most deliberate person I ever met in terms of
constructing his own identity, and his achievement was really an achievement of
identity in the modern world.

"That was an important period for him."

----

THE GIRLFRIEND DIARIES

Excerpts from the journal kept by former Barack Obama girlfriend Genevieve Cook
about her relationship with the then 22-year-old recent Columbia grad:

JANUARY, 1984 - I open the door, that Barack keeps closed, to his room, and
enter into a warm, private space pervaded by a mixture of smells that so
strongly speak of his presence, his liveliness his habits -running sweat, Brut
spray deodorant, smoking, eating raisins, sleeping, breathing.

THURSDAY, JANUARY 26 - How is he so old already,at the age of 22? I have to
recognize(despite play of wry and mocking smile on lips) that I find his
thereness very threatening . Distance, distance, distance, and wariness.

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1984 - Despite Barack's having talked of drawing a circle
around the tender in him -protecting the ability to feel innocence and
springborn -I think he also fights against showing it to others, to me. I really
like him more and more-he may worry about posturing and void inside but he is a
brimming and integrated character.

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25 - The sexual warmth is definitely there-but the rest of it
has sharp edges and I'm finding it all unsettling and finding myself wanting to
withdraw from it all ...His warmth can be deceptive. Tho he speaks sweet words
and can be open and trusting, there is also that coolness -and I begin to have
an inkling of some things about him that could get to me.

FRIDAY, MARCH 9 - It's not a question of my wanting to probe ancient pools of
emotional trauma ...but more a sense of you [Barack] biding your time and
drawing others' cards out of their hands for careful inspection-without giving
too much of your own a way -played with a good poker face. And as you say,it's
not a question of intent on your part -or deliberate withholding -you feel
accessible, and you are,in disarming ways. But I feel that you carefully filter
everything in your mind and heart -legitimate, admirable, really -a strength, a
necessity in terms of some kind of integrity.But there's something also there of
smoothed veneer, of guardedness ...but I'm still left with this feeling of ...a
bit of a wall -the veil.

SATURDAY, MAY 26 - Told me the other night of having pushed his mother away over
past 2 years in an effort to extract himself from the role of supporting man in
her life-she feels rejected and has withdrawn somewhat.

THURSDAY, MAY 23, 1985 - Barack leaving my life -atl east as far as being lovers
goes. In the same way that the relationship was founded on calculated boundaries
and carefully, rationally considered developments, it seems to be ending along
coolly considered lines ...

I guess I hoped time would change things and he'd let go and "fall in love"with
me ... Obviously I was not the person that brought infatuation. (That lithe,
bubbly,strong black lady is waiting somewhere!)

ccampanile@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -HIS PLACE: Obama walked around shirtless in a sarong while doing
crossword puzzles, an ex says. [Warzer Jaff] (m)-HAD THE HOTS: Genevieve Cook
(above) was turned on by a bare-chested Obama doing crosswords. (s,
lcf)-Smoothie: A youthful and charming Barack Obama enjoys a relaxing moment in
Central Park during his days of discovery in the '80s as a student at Columbia.
[Courtesy Barack Obama]-HER PLACE: Obama briefly lived in his love's Prospect
Park, Brooklyn, apartment, and they celebrated Christmas together in 1983.
[Gabriella Bass]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

One of the year's 'Beast'

BYLINE: LOU LUMENICK

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 617 words


An increasing number of American independent films distressingly fall into two
categories - star-filled, slightly quirkier versions of their Hollywood brethren
and self-indulgent, navel-gazing smaller films.

Then, once in a great while, something as utterly distinctive and captivating as
Benh Zeitlin's "Beasts of the Southern Wild'' comes along like a breath of fresh
air. I fell in love with it at the Sundance Film Festival, where it arrived with
zero advance hype and went on to win a well-deserved Grand Jury Prize, as well
as an award for Ben Richardson's extraordinarily evocative 16mm cinematography.

But a recent second viewing confirmed that the best reason to wade into this
(let's be honest) challenging but hugely rewarding film is Quvenzhané Wallis - a
6-year-old with no acting experience at the time of filming - who's
unforgettable as the film's fierce young protagonist. She also provides
narration that doesn't exactly walk viewers through the shockingly impoverished
milieu this unusual movie pretty much throws you into.

Hushpuppy and her frequently inebriated father Wink (Dwight Henry) live in
adjoining, junk-filled shacks in a ramshackle Louisiana Delta community that's
been cut off from New Orleans - and the world - by an enormous levee. Wink, who
knows he is dying, has been preparing Hushpuppy - who he often addresses as
"boss'' and "man'' - to survive on her own, since her mother "swam away,'' as
the youngster puts it. Hushpuppy - who lights a stove with a blowtorch to warm
up a meal of cat food in one of many alarming scenes - seems like she could
probably lick Katniss Everdeen in a fair fight.

"Beasts'' was adapted from a play - by Zeitlin and the original author, Lucy
Alibar - but it's hard to imagine anything this cinematic and organically rooted
in a specific locale taking place on a stage. One key concept carried over was
prehistoric beasts freed from their icy graves by global warming, which serve as
a harbinger of doom for Hushpuppy and Wink's tiny, fictional community, known
only as The Bathtub - itself an allegorical stand-in for pre-Katrina New
Orleans. Movies that mix magic and gritty realism almost never work , but
Zeitlin, who is making an auspicious feature directing debut, pulls it off with
awesome results (with the help of extremely impressive special effects for a
film that cost about $1 million).

A flood swamps this impoverished but vibrant community, whose members float in
improvised boats waiting for the waters to recede - only to be herded into an
emergency shelter when they do. By this point, Wink's declining condition has
forced Hushpuppy to take full charge - which she does in ways that are immensely
moving and inspiring.

Henry strikes just the right note as the gruff Wink, whose fathering style might
be labeled borderline abusive in a more familiar context. Gina Montana, another
standout in the locally recruited cast of nonprofessional actors, provides a
crucial contrast as Miss Bathsheba, a teacher, medicine woman and surrogate
mother to Hushpuppy.

It's the effortlessly charismatic Wallis who deserves a Best Actress Oscar
nomination, at the very least, for the most commanding juvenile performance
since Keisha Castle-Hughes received a nod for "Whale Rider'' nearly a decade
ago.

"Beasts of the Southern Wild,'' whose mood is enhanced with Cajun-style music,
has been compared by some to Terrence Malick's "The Tree of Life'' because of
its intoxicating visuals and the presence of prehistoric beasts in both films.
That's meant as a compliment, but Zeitlin's film isn't afraid to tug at your
heartstrings in a way the coolly cerebral Malick probably never would.

lou.lumenick@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A prize winner at the Cannes and Sundance film festivals, this
low-budget drama features captivating turns by Quvenzhané Wallis (left) and
Dwight Henry as a destitute daughter and father.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 21, 2012 Friday

Despite Jake's stage debut, Brit play is all wet

BYLINE: ELISABETH VINCENTELLI

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 441 words


DESCRIBING an overprepared but underskilled contestant on "The X Factor"
recently, Simon Cowell said, "You're like a mouse trying to be an elephant."

Snap! And double snap for "If There Is I Haven't Found It Yet," a British play
that opened last night off-Broadway and has the exact same problem: a yawning
gap between a small-scale, banal play and its splashy staging.

Nick Payne's family drama has garnered a lot of attention because it marks Jake
Gyllenhaal's New York theater debut. Spoiler alert: He and his English accent
are perfectly fine.

Perhaps thinking that Payne's intimate play needed extra- bolstering to handle
the weight of those expectations, director Michael Longhurst went rogue.

Throughout the 100-minute show, the actors fling props and furniture into a
water tank set up along the entire length of the stage.

When a bath runneth over and everything gets flooded, you're in awe of that
over-the-top feat, but also wonder if it was necessary.

Seeing the actors slosh around ankle-deep is a semi-biblical, post-apocalyptic
sight, but the play, underwritten as it is, hasn't earned it.

The water may have something to do with the melting polar ice caps that obsess
one character, George (Brían F. O'Byrne, from "Doubt" and "Frozen"), an earnest
eco-crusader fighting global warming.

So focused is George on saving the world that he doesn't see the people around
him. His withdrawn 15-year-old daughter, Anna (Annie Funke), is being bullied,
partly because she's overweight and partly because her stern mother, Fiona
(Michelle Gomez), teaches at her school.

Into this unhappy household comes George's younger brother, the slackerish Terry
(Gyllenhaal), who warms to his unhappy niece. Broody in a young James Dean kind
of way - he rakes his hand through his hair a lot - Gyllenhaal has an appealing,
fumbling romanticism.

He and O'Byrne also have a convincing relationship as estranged siblings with a
shared inability to communicate with loved ones.

Terry, who lives day-to-day, tries to joke at his brother's earnest long-term
concerns. "What's the carbon footprint of a joint?" he asks, trying to lighten
the mood between puffs.

George isn't laughing.

As Anna, a part that requires a lot of skulking about, Funke economically
renders a teenager desperately looking for someone to talk to.

But as good as the actors are, they can't conceal the fact that they're playing
clichés thrown into overly familiar situations. You can over-direct this Family
Dysfunction 101 class all you want, but it just looks like someone wearing
clothes three sizes too big.

elisabeth.vincentelli@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jake Gyllenhaal (left) has a fumbling, appealing romanticism about him.
[Joan Marcus]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2012 Thursday

Andrew in the Dark EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 504 words


Might as well throw away your computers. And Christmas lights. And electric
heater. Because if Gov. Cuomo has his way, New Yorkers soon might not have the
juice to run any of it.

On Tuesday, state officials actually took a step in that direction, ordering Con
Ed and the New York Power Authority to come up with plans for closing the Indian
Point nuclear power plant, as Cuomo wants.

Don't be surprised if those plans call for New Yorkers to buy lots of warm coats
and learn to live in the dark. Because replacing Indian Point's 2,000 MW of
power, used to light up roughly a quarter of New York City, will be near
impossible.

Which raises the question: What on earth is Cuomo thinking?

First he places what is in effect (thanks to his endless delays) a permanent ban
on fracking, a new natural-gas drilling process.

On Tuesday, officials filed for an extension (i.e., yet another 90-day delay) of
the latest "deadline" for new fracking rules.

Even though the state has been "considering" those rules - and indeed whether to
allow fracking at all - for years.

Anyone think when this latest "90-day period" is up, Cuomo won't come up with
some other excuse not to pull the trigger?

And now he's targeting Indian Point.

It's sheer folly.

Think about it: There's really no practical way to shut down the Westchester
plant and still ensure that New Yorkers have sufficient, reliable, clean, cheap
energy.

Nuclear power, remember, is still the least expensive around; any substitute
juice will surely cost more. It also spews out almost no emissions - unlike oil,
coal or even natural gas. That should be important to Cuomo, if he believes
curbing CO2 output is needed to slow global warming.

Besides, where is the replacement power to come from? Another generating plant
or two? No community would approve it.

Imported from other regions? That wouldn't be as reliable or cheap as local
power - and communities aren't any more likely to OK the necessary transmission
lines than they are power plants.

And don't believe all the fear-mongering hype that Indian Point poses a risk, a
la Japan's Fukushima disaster; countless studies have repeatedly confirmed that
it's safe.

No, shutting Indian Point makes little sense - unless the governor (with an eye,
perhaps, on higher office?) is more concerned about his enviro cred than
ensuring power for the state.

Sheesh. You'd think Cuomo would at least have the humility to look at what
happened after his father, then-Gov. Mario Cuomo, closed the Shoreham nuclear
plant on Long Island more than two decades ago.

Today, Long Islanders pay some of the highest electric rates around.

Shoreham's other legacy: the Long Island Power Authority. Care to ask Nassau and
Suffolk residents how that's been working out for them, particularly after
Sandy?

Alas, Cuomo theoretically has the power to block Indian Point operations down
the road. But if he does, New Yorkers might not have the power to turn on their
lights.

Does the governor really want that?

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Shoots spring eternal to the Fed's Bernanke

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 723 words


Albert Einstein said that insanity is doing the same thing over and over again
and expecting different results.

Federal Reserve bigwigs met yesterday and said they would continue to keep
interest rates low, probably through 2014. And Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, the
biggest wig of all, is still seeing those green shoots in the economy.

Bernanke thinks business conditions are showing signs of improvement. (He might
change his mind when he sees next Friday's employment report for January.)

March, in case you've forgotten, will be the third anniversary of Bernanke first
spotting those shoots that never seem to sprout into a full plant, despite being
watered by historically low interest rates over an abnormally long period of
time.

What the Fed didn't say yesterday was that it would monetize more US debt under
its Quantitative Easing program.

To refresh your memory, Quantitative Easing - or QE - is the process by which
the Fed prints extra money, buys US government bonds and pretends that there are
real customers for that junk.

I've taken to saying QE really stands for Questionable Economics. But one reader
suggested that it should really be Quack Economics. I yield to the wittier
brain.

The bond market, which has been in a funk, was happier yesterday in knowing that
another dose of Quack Economics isn't imminent.

Stocks, which are the little sister of financial markets, dutifully followed
bond prices higher, which means yields fell.

The Fed did say it would continue to purchase securities that are made up of
mortgages. That's an attempt to keep rates low, which the Fed hopes will one day
result in the housing market becoming an inferno once again.

The government has been buying mortgages for years without much result, so
Einstein might wonder why it's doing more of the same.

There's is one important thing that happened yesterday: a new openness by the
Fed in telling what it plans to do and hopes will happen.

This new transparency is hot stuff in the financial world.

So I suggest the Federal Reserve resort to the ultimate in plain talk with this
statement: "Folks, we really don't know what we're doing, but we're hoping for
the best. Tap that other keg so we can get back to work."

n

Here's a news flash: The seasonal adjustments to US economic data are
misleading.

I've been telling readers that since this recession began.

Now economists at Goldman Sachs and Nomura Securities are saying the same thing.

Good for them - better late than never.

"The impact of the financial crisis does seem to have affected seasonal factors
for several indicators," Andrew Tilton, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs told
Bloomberg News.

Tilton said these awry seasonal adjustments "might tend to make things look a
little better in early winter and look a little worse in springtime."

Well, not really.

Bad seasonal adjustments will make employment look better in early winter, worse
in the dead of winter and better in spring.

This is especially true for labor and inflation figures, as I've documented over
the past couple of years.

But at least these very well-paid economists are finally trying to get it right.

n

I love those "As Seen on TV" products.

My favorite was the fruit cocktail tree I bought years ago. It was majestic,
sitting there in its pot not sprouting a thing, much less the peaches, plums and
applies promised. (It was sort of like the green shoots of economic growth
Bernanke was seeing a few years ago.)

My next favorite is the plastic foot-washer my kids bought me for Christmas
(along with, I should add, a 60-inch HDTV. The two aren't meant to be used
together. )

But I've now found my all-time favorite.

And if I had time and space here I'd tell you about it. But I don't, so you'll
have to wait.

n

And here's something the world wouldn't have without the Internet: MyTab.co.

The idea is simple. If, say, newlyweds want to take a trip they can't afford,
this site will collect monetary gifts from friends toward the cost of the
journey.

Not good enough. Why stop there?

Why not take up collections for people's plastic surgery?

Maybe you even have someone in the office who is uglier than anyone can stand,
so you start taking a collection without ever getting the potential patient's
approval.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Green shoots Coming soon?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 14, 2012 Monday

SITTING BULL MLB broadcasters willing to overlook best-ticket no-shows

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 571 words


We MUST be seeing things. Rather, we must not be seeing things.

The public used to rely on the media to fight for it, to go to bat for the
bat-less. Not so much anymore. Most in the news take their corporate orders -
real, tacit and imagined - or make themselves available to be bought and sold to
multiple masters, restricting what they would otherwise report.

Thus, ugly, smack-you-in-the-senses realities go ignored. Worse, on TV, we're
often told to ignore what we see and instead believe what we're told.

While we understand that local broadcasters are frightened to tell certain
here-and-now truths about the teams that employ them, MLB's national networks
have no such restrictions.

Heck, for the billions paid to MLB in rights, ESPN, Fox and TBS should insist
that their announcers speak all truths. What's MLB going to do about it, not
cash their checks? Forbid them from bidding next time?

In other words, ESPN, Fox and TBS might have - could have and should have -
spent the last four seasons hammering a point so embarrassing to MLB that it
might have shamed teams and Bud Selig to exact greater-good changes.

Specifically, the best seats in new parks - those most often in view throughout
telecasts - are so over-priced that they're going empty, greed-wasted. After
all, these are ballparks where ballgames of pre-undetermined value are played;
they're not destination resorts.

Over the weekend, the Mets played the Marlins in Miami's new, climate-controlled
stadium. The Marlins were returning from an 8-1 road trip.

Yet, clearly visible during Friday night's telecast on SNY and throughout Fox's
on Saturday afternoon, many of the best seats - hundreds, if not thousands,
behind the backstop and along the infield lines - went unoccupied.

On Fox, not only didn't play-by-player Rich Waltz and analyst Tim McCarver seem
to notice, they seemed to think that we didn't either. In fact, they seemed to
see people where we saw none.

"Another big crowd here, on a Saturday afternoon" said Waltz, after applauding
the new park.

"They built it here in Miami," said McCarver, "and they have come."

The biggest big ticket for Marlins home games is $250, dirt cheap by Yankee
Stadium standards, yet still illogically expensive to watch any baseball game.
The family of four, with eats, drinks, travel and parking, is reaching for over
$1,000 to attend a game.

No thanks, they'll sit upstairs, or at least outside the Yankee Stadium-type
moat that separates and designates - a financial caste seating system. Above and
beyond such seats is where crowds now begin to gather.

That MLB teams slickly determined that their pricing should meet or surpass what
scalpers/agents might get/got on a good day is not a good reason; it's a
cynical, rotten reason.

But the media, once inclined and even assigned to fight systems that make saps
of the public, rolls over and plays dead. Not their problem. No one's forcing
anyone to buy those seats, ya know? Thus what's becoming baseball's standardized
stadium look - the best seats unoccupied, wasted - is unworthy of news or noise.

Still, "Another big crowd here on a Saturday afternoon" should have been
followed by a wide, high, swing shot of the ballpark - as a matter of evidence
that there was, in fact, any crowd.

After all, down by the field, "another big crowd" had again avoided the best
seats.

phil.mushnick@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOMETHING FISHY: Shortstop Jose Reyes swings in front of prime empty
seats at Marlins Park - but don't expect baseball's TV announcers to comment on
this epidemic. Getty ImagesSEE THESE GREAT EMPTY SEATS AT MARLINS PARK? THE
ANNOUNCERS DON'T.Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday

Dem donor Al's new love

BYLINE:

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 165 words


Former Vice President Al Gore could be trawling the Democratic donors' list to
find dates. The Nobel Peace Prize laureate's latest squeeze is wealthy San Diego
donor Elizabeth Keadle, according to reports. Keadle gave the Democratic
National Convention $100,000 and was part of the committee that helped select
the DNC's 2004 Boston location. She was also an early investor in Gore's cable
channel Current and shares his passion for environmental activism. According to
the Washington Post, the pair were seen aboard a cruise to Antarctica to raise
awareness about climate change, with other celebrities including Richard
Branson, singer Jason Mraz and "Men in Black 3" star Tommy Lee Jones. Though
Gore and Keadle have run in the same circles for years, there is no evidence
that she had anything to do with his split from wife Tipper after 40 years of
marriage in 2010. (The pair are separated, but haven't divorced.) Keadle was
previously married to biotech entrepreneur Lyle Turner.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday

Bill bash a bust

BYLINE:

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 145 words


AN exclusive London event hosted by Bill Clinton with tickets costing up to
$1,600 was blasted as "the worst party ever" by guests who lined up for hours to
get in. Marie Phillips, author of "Gods Behaving Badly," wrote on Twitter,
"WORST. PARTY. EVER. The queue was the highlight." She described how celebrity
guests including Gwyneth Paltrow and Will.i.am were led in while hundreds of
others who paid for tickets waited outside near Waterloo Station. She added, "I
haven't seen so many posh angry people in a line since the shrimp ran out at
Kate and Wills' wedding." Once inside she wrote, "There is literally damp
dripping from the ceiling. Clinton talked about climate change for 30 secs." The
Daily Telegraph reported that the bash, hosted by the ex-president for the
Clinton Foundation Millennium Network, was also attended by Lily Cole and
Princess Beatrice.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 7, 2012 Saturday

Presidential Power Play

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 195 words


The Issue: A court's decision to uphold EPA regulations that effectively ban new
coal-fueled power plants.

It's true that stripping power from the EPA - along with repealing ObamaCare -
will help the economy to recover ("Smothering the Economy," Editorial, July 1).

But the economy will be jump-started as soon as President Obama loses the
election in November.

Businesses are waiting for Obama to leave office so that his regulations can't
harm them anymore.

Just look at the tepid hiring numbers following the Supreme Court's decision to
let ObamaCare go forward.

Businesses are still hoping that Mitt Romney will come in on a white horse and
strike it down.

Here's hoping they are right. Charlie Honadel

Staten Island

In the middle of a rec­ord-setting heat wave and with the MTA worrying about
rising sea levels affecting the subway system, The Post is urging the government
to let more coal-fueled power plants open up shop.

You say the EPA regulations kill jobs.

Well, when sea levels keep rising thanks to global warming, there will be lots
of jobs building seawalls so the subways don't get flooded.

How about that?

Alan Saly

Brooklyn

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday

Actress has 'Union' with NYC

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 731 words


MIRA Sorvino's movie opens tomorrow. It's called "Union Square."

So where'd it film?

"Union Square."

Right.

"Actually five locations like dance clubs, apartments. It's an independent film,
and we shot really cheap and dirty with 5-D still cameras. In public. In front
of people who didn't know. Unaware passersby jumped into the scenes. Like me
shopping for a Thanksgiving turkey at a farmers market, saying 'No' to Brussels
sprouts. Then my character's crying her eyes out, and someone passing our unseen
camera asks, 'You OK?'

"The look of the nonpros was terrific. A vendor selling honey allowed us to
shoot his stand. They didn't always recognize me, but that's why New York - so
full of extreme people - is terrific.

"This is about opposite sisters estranged for years who meet and hash out
differences. My character's bipolar. The other's calm. Different. A vegan.

"Response at screenings made it seem we're doing social work because it shows
the other side of a breakdown and the brevity of life. As though, 'If you can't
shoot 'em, you have to live with 'em.'

"Audiences left saying, 'I understand now . . . I think I'll call my brother.'
The film has a big heart.

"I think it has potential. It's my best work. Lately I've done small independent
movies which had no money for p.r."

About her 1995 "Mighty Aphrodite" Oscar: "That was a terrific high. But life
must continue."

About her life: "I have a bunch of children - one only a few months old. My
husband's an actor. We had to give up our small New York apartment, and every
day I mourn living in California. I must find a place here. I can't stand being
away."

About her father Paul Sorvino: "He makes real Italian ragout with homemade
meatballs. I see him every Sunday."

TRY 13th Street's Redhead restaurant. Southern grits, fried green tomatoes,
fried chicken, fried everything, corn on the cob. Delicious - $75 for two . . .
Speaking of grits, longtime grits eater Aretha Franklin says best she ever ate
were at Al Gore's house. Gore's great grits? Gosh! . . . Druggy dudes who prove
clean? When their system passes the stuff they take the test and come out
negative. I mean, please.

WILL the Restaurant Opportunities Center stop harassing high-end eateries?
Shelly Fireman of Fiorello's, Trattoria Dell'Arte, Bond 45, tells me: "Cost a
fortune five years ago to handle them. It's over. It's strictly labor activist
issues." . . . And let's stamp out junque-y reality shows. Comes now a Silicon
Valley one. Oy. Some survivor or fear or whatever series with contestants on an
island is so tiresome that when the tide went out those stranded refused to come
back.

OBAMA thumping to raise taxes on earnings more than $250,000 per year. Neat
idea. Same issues that drowned in midterm's 2010 election when Dems had a strong
majority in the Senate and in the House and he couldn't grab even his people's
support.

THE High Line. In case you've been in the stockade and don't know, this railroad
line became a mile-long Meatpacking District park in 2009. Here are the figures:
3.7 million visitors, 12,000 jobs, 2,500 new residences (all over 300 feet, the
size of one of its bushes), 1,000 hotel rooms (all over 300 feet, the size of
its johns), 425,000 square feet of offices (all over 300 feet, the approximate
size of some jail cells).

Co-founder Robert Hammond: "Our next final section's construction, which will
house a branch of the Whitney, begins this fall."

Note to Tom Cruise: The place is popular with weddings.

RUSSIA's rich Leonard Blavatnik, who owns Warner Music Group, bringing HBO to
Israel . . . Former Rep. Harold Ford to make a senate run . . . Rumor is climate
change blamed for citrus crop failure in Mexifornia and Floruba . . . More rumor
is Tiger Woods dropped a large few in West Virginia's Greenbrier Resort casino.

TRAINER Jillian Michaels, whose car was just burglarized: "I was a humiliated
overweight kid. People made cow sounds at me. That's when I got into martial
arts, and nobody did me wrong since.". . . Canada's former Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney's son Ben, who hosted TV's "Canadian Idol," is ABC's newest newscaster.

FREESTYLE Barber Shop. Customer arrives with bruises. Barber Eddy asks: "What
happened?"? The unrecognized face explains he's hockey star Brandon Dubinsky of
the New York Rangers.

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 19, 2012 Sunday

THREE bucks a bottle? That's water torture!

BYLINE: Antonio Antenucci

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 230 words


We've hit the high- ­water mark.

A small bottle of Poland Spring - which wholesales for 9 cents and usually
retails for as little as a buck - is being hawked for $3 these days.

Thirsty New Yorkers and tourists sweating through one of the hottest summers on
record are routinely shelling out three bucks a quench at sidewalk stands and
food markets.

Ben Pastor, 45, of ­Toronto, paid that much for the standard 16.9-ounce bottle
(about two cups of water) at a hot-dog cart near City Hall Park.

"As soon as I paid for it, I knew I just got taken for a ride," he said. "But I
was thirsty - what was I ­going to do?"

Alicia Faiscia (right), 29, of Long Island, gave a thumbs down to the $3 that a
South Street Seaport chain restaurant charged.

Climate experts say that 2012 is the Northeast's most sweltering year on record,
with the mercury hitting 101 in the city during a July heat wave.

In fact, federal meteorologists say July was the hottest month ever recorded in
the contiguous states - hotter than the withering Dust Bowl of the 1930s.

One Sixth Avenue hotdog vendor confessed that he jacked up the price of water by
50 cents a bottle this summer. And he said he'll likely cut the price when
cooler weather arrives.

"That's how we do it," he said, adding sheepishly: "But don't blame me. I'm just
the worker. It's the cart owner who sets the prices."

and

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: :Alicia Faiscia and water bottle. (Helayne Seidman)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday

US Senator rips do-nothing Congress Capitol wa$teland

BYLINE: Gerry Shields

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 508 words


WASHINGTON - Congress is the biggest waste of taxpayer money this year,
according to a senator who puts out an annual book on wasteful government
programs.

"The challenges facing our nation have rarely been so dire for so long," Sen.
Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) said. "Yet never before in recent history have our elected
leaders in Washington worked less and been more lax in addressing our nation's
problems."

Congress, which is allocated $1.32 billion, is on pace to having the least
productive legislative year since 1947, with just 61 bills passed and made law
to date, he said.

Coburn notes that Congress' inability to get things done has resulted in the
lowest public approval rating in nearly four decades with a stunning 83 percent
of Americans disapproving of the way Congress is doing its job.

More than 20 of the 100 senators have not had a single amendment considered on
the Senate floor in 2012, Coburn said. A number of important committees within
both the House and Senate are failing to work on matters for which they are
responsible, Coburn added.

Coburn listed the Senate Budget Committee as the most striking disappointment
for failing to come up with a budget for the past three years. Since that time,
Washington has spent $11.2 trillion and added $4.8 trillion to the national
debt.

In addition to not passing a budget, the committee has failed to hold many
hearings, a key tool for Congress to conduct oversight, investigate problems,
seek solutions, initiate debate and advance agendas, Coburn said. The committee
held a mere 12 hearings this year, fewer than all but five other congressional
committees from both chambers, Coburn said.

Likewise, the Senate Finance Committee that Coburn sits on and that oversees
three-fourths of the federal budget has done little, he said. Despite its broad
jurisdiction, the committee discharged only 11 legislative measures including
"National Save For Retirement Week."

Coburn's annual report included more than 100 programs that wasted $18 billion.

This year, Coburn highlighted $365,000 spent on a squirrel robot to see how it
interacts with rattlesnakes. A $697,177 federal grant was used to create a
musical about biodiversity and climate change.

"All of the outrageous and wasteful contents of this report were made possible
by either the action or lack of action of Congress, earning it the well-deserved
but unwanted distinction as the biggest waste of taxpayer money in 2012," Coburn
said.

---

Money pit

Sen. Tom Coburn's (R-Okla.) annual report on federal waste put Congress at the
top of the hit list for failing to take action on the budget-and barely anything
else during the current session:

* Cost: $1.32 billion for member, leadership and committee offices

* Idle worshipers: More than 20 of the 100 senators have not have had a single
amendment considered this year.

* Spent: $11.2 trillion in taxpayer dollars over the last three years without
having voted to approve a federal budget

* Salary: $174,000 for every senator and House member

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Down the drain: Sen. Tom Coburn lambastes Congress for its inactivity
in his report on government waste. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday

Silicon Alley deals with power loss

BYLINE: Wilson Dizard

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 265 words


With Mayor Bloomberg certain that climate change has made plenty more hurricanes
in store for New York, it's probably wise to have a backup plan for your
business's data.

Hundreds of New York companies were anxiously waiting to see when they'd have
power and be able to figure out how to get their computers and servers humming
again. Even Google's Chelsea digs remain lightless as of Friday morning, before
Con Ed got the juices flowing downtown.

"Most importantly, practice disaster recovery," said Tom Wilson, a systems
administrator working to get companies up and running. "Lots of people think
they are safe because they've never actually tried a dry run of what they would
need to do in a ­disaster."

Wilson advises keeping backup servers off-site, and to drill for recovering data
just from these backups, and to make multiple copies.

"Data you don't have three copies of is data you don't care about," he added.

But there are a few success stories.

Livestream, a service that lets people broadcast video over the Internet, lost
main power at its offices on the 15th floor of Google's building on Monday, but
has been able to keep its servers up and running with a diesel generator,
according to Max Haot, Livestream's CEO.

Until power was restored at its main office, Livestream was working out of a
temporary space in Brooklyn.

"We always wanted to be in Williamsburg!" Haot quipped.

In the meantime, New York Tech Meetup, a Silicon Alley business association, is
recruiting volunteers to help get systems back online or find space for
companies in need.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RELIGHTING: Hoping for joice at Livestream. (Corey Behnke)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 12, 2012 Monday

Our zombie reality

BYLINE: aNDREA pEYSER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 657 words


The apocalypse has come.

If you have power, chances are you're spending Monday nights watching NBC's hit
drama "Revolution.'' In it, a savvy band of fighters wrestles with the chaotic
loss of electricity, cellphones, American Express, heat and hot water, plus the
collapse of government (though glamorous survivors appear to retain working
blow-dryers).

But, hold your horse and buggy! The fiction is real.

In the post-Sandy Rockaways and Staten Island, overnight we've turned into
futuristic survivalists. Only, the future is now. The government response is
feeble. In hard-hit areas, the machines on which we depend for everything, from
ordering Chinese to communicating with people under our own roofs, don't work.
We're on our own.

At least since the terror attacks of 9/11, Hollywood has been on a horror binge.
Shows like AMC's end-of-the-world romp, "The Walking Dead,'' and Brad Pitt's
upcoming undead epic, "World War Z,'' reflect the anxieties of people who feel
as if modern life is but a slim veneer on the verge of meltdown. Flesh-eating
zombies are hot. Blood-sucking vampires are cool. Villains no longer are German,
Muslim, Russian or French, but vague monsters that live at the edge of
consciousness, ready to pounce.

And the terror one feels looking into the abyss has seeped from the abstract and
has landed, with a thud, in real life. Consider:

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last year released "Preparedness
101: Zombie Pandemic." It's a guide to making it through a zombie attack, or
pretty much any hard-to-kill emergency.

Now, since Hurricane Sandy, terror course work has spiraled to flesh-devouring
levels. Next month, REI camping gear in Framingham, Mass., offers a class in
zombie avoidance.

"You learn valuable survival techniques that could save your life,'' reads the
company's Web site. "These same techniques could be invaluable in the event of
any natural disaster in an urban environment.''

Lest you think threat-mania is a commercial ploy, note that on Oct. 31, two days
after Sandy struck, the HALO Corp. of California put on a national conference
for law-enforcement types and first responders, partially funded by the
Department of Homeland Security. It featured a workshop on, you guessed it,
overcoming the zombie threat.

"We have to prepare for a mass chemical or biological attack,'' said Kit Lavell,
executive vice president of Strategic Operations Inc., the Hollywood-affiliated
firm that produced the flesh-chomping workshop. Such an attack "could produce
serious medical and psychological effects, even mobility.'' That is, it could
create actual zombies.

The message to zombie aficionados like me, said Lavell, is, "Don't shoot your
neighbor in the head.'' Decapitation might be the key to defeating ghouls. But
chemically infected humans should be decontaminated first. Good to know.

Dr. Simon Rego, director of psychology training at Montefiore Medical Center in
The Bronx, said people are hard-wired to be scaredy cats. Evolution weeds out
those who take threats lightly, whether it be from monsters or weather.

"The person who thought a saber-toothed tiger was a cute, little kitty didn't
live to see the next day,'' Rego told me. "You get these episodic group
phenomena. Space aliens. Demonic possession. Vampires versus zombies. These
themes could be where we are at the moment.''

Dr. Alan Hilfer, chief psychologist at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn,
blames it on global-warming hysteria. Add in freak-outs over a recent
face-eating attack in Florida.

"Fantasizing and imagining about worst-case scenarios, I've heard it come up
more than once,'' said Hilfer. "We're fascinated with it because we're
experiencing some of it. The bad weather and what it might mean.

"It comes up, from tree huggers to Tea Partiers.''

Science fiction or fact? I think climate change is rot. But in the minds of many
Americans, the apocalypse is real.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Zombie in front of a "Welcome to New York" sign.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday

Pols suddenly storm troupers

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 268 words


It's getting hot in the kitchen, and New York's political class is feeling the
heat. City Hall and Albany want to show a frustrated public they are trying to
speed up the pace of recovery from Hurricane Sandy.

In a quickening race against time and each other, Gov. Cuomo, Mayor Bloomberg
and Council Speaker Christine Quinn are making a rash of proposals for dealing
with the aftermath and trying to show the city and state will do better next
time.

Cuomo yesterday invoked the Moreland Act to "investigate" the utility companies'
preparation and response. The move, which gives a commission he appointed the
power to issues subpoenas and put witnesses under oath, is a dose of much-needed
shock therapy, especially to the clueless managers at LIPA.

Bloomberg's office, stunned by criticism over his handling of the marathon among
other things, sent out a long memo listing City Hall's actions. Deputy Mayor
Howard Wolfson said it was "a good time to take stock" of the efforts, and
listed a dozen programs ranging from helping small businesses to clearing debris
and distributing hot food.

Quinn is busy, too, using the crisis to juice her bid to succeed Bloomberg. She
gave a speech an overcaffeinated aide dubbed a "Visionary Blueprint for New York
City's Planning and Preparation in Era of Climate Change."

One telling detail: The cost of her demand that utilities bury power lines
cannot be passed on to customers. Maybe Santa Claus will chip in?

Quinn also appeared with the head of the teachers union to give away backpacks
and other items to displaced students. No politics there, either.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dirty detail: A cleanup worker digs through mounds of Sandy debris
looking for environmenally dangerous waste yesterday in Staten Island's Midland
Beach. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 18, 2012 Sunday

We've all gone MAD Whomever gets the most offended wins

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 764 words


When Eli Manning and the Giants won the Super Bowl, did Giants fans spend the
week calling Bill Belichick an a-hole, denouncing Tom Brady for cheating on his
girlfriend and saying Rob Gronkowski is the new Herman Munster?

All of those things are true, but Big Blue's fans pretty much just talked about
how you can't spell elite without Eli and how Mario Manningham had become one of
the all-time Giants.

Yet after President Obama's re-election, the left has seemed disturbingly angry
(Guys, your side won. Let's see some happy faces. Buy a Republican a drink.).
And angry about really bizarre things.

"It's weird that everyone that supports Romney is a Christian a-hole," Tweeted
someone called @Adam_ Marchetti. (Never mind that Obama is also Christian.)
Tweeted @GoAskAlex, 'So US Magazine asked Romney to submit a list of 25 things
we don't know about him but he declined. A--hole." "If I had a dollar for every
creepy a--hole who lifted his shirt to show me his dumb ugly tattoo after seeing
mine I'd be Mitt f---ing Romney," tweeted @laurenmcneil.

It's almost as if the anger of the campaign season was the point, not an
unfortunate byproduct, of politics. Or as Greg Gutfeld puts it in his tender,
loving new book, "The Joy of Hate," "You know what really pisses me off? People
who are always pissed off. Or pretend to be pissed off . . . Right now we live
in a world where if someone perceives you as 'offensive,' they win. Meanwhile,
the real offenders get a walk. They can wield the weapon of 'tolerance' to
protect real scummy behavior."

Gutfeld knows whereof he speaks. The host of Fox News Channel's "Red Eye," and
faithful supplier of 20% of discussion on "The Five," he once conducted a very
public thought experiment to challenge what he calls "the Tolerati."

A couple of years ago, when Muslims proposed a building containing a mosque a
couple hundred yards from Ground Zero, he proposed building a gay bar next to
the mosque. Response? The "Mosqueteers," as he calls them, said, "If you won't
consider the sensibilities of Muslims, you're not going to build dialog."
(Gutfeld offered to name the proposed bar Dialog.)

Tolerati like Sandra Fluke, a longtime liberal activist who attended Georgetown
University specifically to try to harass it, and other Catholic institutions,
into providing free birth control, go looking for a fight. Then they pretend to
be outraged when they find one and are forced to suffer the resulting indignity
of lucrative speaking engagements and prime-time slots on national television.

Free birth control is a non-issue that stokes pretend anger. A month of
birth-control pills costs about the same as a sandwich, yet if a politician
stood up before the nation and vowed a free veal parmigiana sub for everyone,
he'd rightly be laughed at. "What could have been a frank discussion about
government overreach and entitlement shifted into a 'War on Women,' " Gutfeld
writes. "If you deny a birth-control pill to anyone, period, you are waging war
on the fairer sex."

Gutfeld has lots more examples of ersatz anger. He goes out for a smoke on the
corner near his apartment, and two girls tell him, "Get lung cancer, man" and
"You gonna die."

A blogger named Harold Ambler who made fun of climate-change alarmism inspired a
fellow blogger to suggest that Ambler's house be burned down.

Last year, Gutfeld was handed a gift of the most visible (and smellable) fake
outrage in recent memory: Occupy Wall Street. "They had no principles," Gutfeld
writes, "so they offered a poll to choose what to protest. In sum, they had no
idea what they were protesting; they only knew that protesting would feel really
good."

Occupy had a big problem: The people in power gave them a thumbs up. "They
weren't actually going to speak truth to the man," Gutfeld notes, "because,
really, they were on the same side as the man." They had another problem: Their
proposed revolution was actually cute. "People reacted to the protesters not
with anger but with curiosity," writes Gutfeld. "People took pictures. They're
scragglier versions of the Naked Cowboy."

Gutfeld hates conclusions, he says, because they're so final. But how about this
for a proposal: "Look, I can disagree with [Bill] Maher about his opinions on
[Sarah] Palin, but I won't get angry about it . . . Stop demanding that people
shut up or get fired . . . Demanding that someone get fired because they hurt
your feelings says more about you than them. You should not care. Generally,
over time, creepy people end up creeping off into the sunset. See Olbermann."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fox host Greg Gutfeld takes aim at those who are "Outraged! Outraged!"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday

Odd coupling Gov's test for Republocrats

BYLINE: Erik Kriss

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 266 words


ALBANY - Gov. Cuomo is out with his Top 10 list - and he's warning the state
Senate's new ruling coalition to take notice.

Cuomo calls his priorities a "litmus test" for the unprecedented alliance of
Republicans and breakaway Democrats that will jointly run the Senate next year.

Sen. Jeff Klein of The Bronx, head of the five-member Independent Democratic
Conference that's teaming with the GOP, said he "wholeheartedly supports these
priorities."

A spokesman for current Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos (R-Nassau) - whose
party apparently lost its majority last month's elections - wouldn't comment on
the specifics of the Cuomo agenda.

In an op-ed piece scheduled to be published in today's Albany Times-Union, Cuomo
spelled out his agenda for lawmakers, including legalizing casinos, raising the
minimum wage, decriminalizing minor pot possession produced during
stop-and-frisk procedures, partial taxpayer financing of state campaigns,
"protecting a woman's right to choose" and "initiatives that address" climate
change.

He also listed the already approved property- tax cap, teacher evaluations,
limited education and Medicaid spending increases, and a modest middle-class
income-tax cut - which was coupled with a big increase in scheduled rates on
seven-figure earners.

Cuomo said results will determine whether lawmakers receive his support.

"If you didn't pass campaign finance, I think you failed the people of the
state," he said at a Cabinet meeting yesterday. "If you don't raise the minimum
wage, I think you failed the people of the state."

ekriss@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dean Skelos Will team with Dem faction.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday

Racial divide 'All white' Senate chiefs

BYLINE: Carl Campanile and Erik Kriss

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 259 words


Racial tensions are mounting over the state Senate's new, virtually all-white
ruling coalition.

Three black senators - Eric Adams of Brooklyn, Bill Perkins of Harlem, and Ruth
Hassell-Thompson of The Bronx - are expected to join the Rev. Al Sharpton
Saturday in a campaign to empower 15 black and Hispanic Democrats with key
committee chairmanships and more influence, said a source.

New York NAACP leader Hazel Dukes is also expected at Sharpton's National Action
Network House of Justice headquarters in Harlem for the rally.

Sharpton claimed the coalition of Republicans and breakaway Democrats denies
black and Latino senators power that should be "rightfully theirs" given that
Democrats won a majority of Senate seats last month.

He called it "enormously troubling for any leader in this state to allow such a
miscarriage of justice and obstruction of the will of the people to go forward."

Gov. Cuomo - a Democrat who is not fighting the unprecedented coalition -
separately came out with a "litmus test" of priorities for the alliance,
including legalizing casinos, raising the minimum wage, decriminalizing minor
pot possession, partial taxpayer financing of political campaigns, protecting
abortion rights and climate-change initiatives.

The five-member Independent Democratic Conference, which includes Malcolm Smith,
a black senator from Queens, embraced Cuomo's ideas.

The GOP declined to comment on Cuomo's specific proposals.

The Senate Democratic Conference said it supports the governor's agenda.

erik.kriss@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AL SHARPTON Aiding "influence" fight.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday

Andy: It's war if GOP blocks my agenda

BYLINE: Erik Kriss

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 601 words


ALBANY - Gov. Cuomo's honey­moon with state Senate ­Republicans is on the rocks.

Cuomo threatened political war yesterday against Senate GOP leader Dean Skelos
of Long Island - after two years of relative harmony - if Republicans don't
embrace the governor's agenda next year as part of the Senate's new ruling
coalition.

Skelos, who lost his GOP majority in last month's elections pending recounts in
two upstate races, balked this week at joining his new "independent"
Democratic-coalition partners in raising the minimum wage, enacting
campaign-finance reform and decriminalizing minor pot possession during NYPD
stop-and-frisks.

"If that's true, then we're going to have a problem, and we're going to have a
problem sooner rather than later," Democrat Cuomo told The Post's Fredric U.
Dicker on Albany's Talk 1300 AM radio.

"If Senator Skelos is opposed to the agenda of the people of the state, then I
will oppose him . . . and I will be involved."

Republicans, he added, "are wrong, and I will do everything in my power to get
that agenda passed."

Skelos this month agreed to the unprecedented power-sharing ­coalition with Sen.
Jeff Klein of The Bronx, the leader of the five-member Independent Democratic
Conference.

The two plan to decide jointly which bills to allow to go before lawmakers for a
vote.

Klein has predicted the Senate will pass the heart of Cuomo's agenda.

But Skelos said there have been "no decisions, no agreements" about what bills
the new Senate will take up next year.

He also reiterated his concern about spending up to $200 million in taxpayer
money on state elections as part of campaign-finance reform.

Skelos' top deputy, Sen. Thomas Libous (R-Binghamton), went even further,
calling the existing bill to increase the minimum wage "devastating to business"
and questioning whether "taxpayers want to pay for campaigns."

Libous told Gannett News Service that those bills "will be in a different form
than what we presently see."

Black leaders have criticized the coalition as disenfranchising 13 black and
Hispanic senators, and they say Democrats should control the Senate outright if
their party winds up with the majority of seats.

But a Quinnipiac University poll found voters disagreeing, with more preferring
a bipartisan coalition than outright Democratic or Republican control.

Skelos' spokesman, Scott Reif, said yesterday that "the people want Democrats
and Republicans to work together to get results.

"If Senate Republicans have proven anything over the last two years, it's that
we can successfully work with Governor Cuomo to pass an agenda that benefits all
New Yorkers," he said.

Cuomo is also pushing for legalizing casino gambling, "protecting a woman's
right to choose" and "initiatives that address" climate change.

He said he'll add even more initiatives to the list when he delivers his annual
State of the State speech next month.

Sen. John Sampson of Brooklyn said last weekend he'd step aside as head of the
Democratic Conference if party members united to create a Democratic majority.

Sampson also promised this week that he and his fellow Democrats would oppose
watered-down versions of the bills Cuomo is ­promoting.

---

Share the power!

According to a new poll, a majority of New York voters prefers a bipartisan
coalition taking the helm of the state Senate. A new coalition could thwart the
legislative efforts of Gov. Cuomo (left).

48% prefer a bipartisan coalition

31% prefer Democratic control

17% prefer Republican control

Source: Quinnipiac University poll

ekriss@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Rutgers acts angry at Rice after hiring angry coach

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 568 words


World Gone Nuts: In May, 2010, Rutgers hired Mike Rice as its basketball coach.
Rice came from Pittsburgh's Robert Morris University, where he was known - it
was hard to miss - for his stomping, cursing, raging in-game conduct.

Ten months later, after Rutgers lost a close one in the Big East Tournament, a
basketball fan wrote a polite letter to Rutgers athletic director Tim Pernetti,
suggesting Rice's excessive behavior toward his players and the refs - and in
public view and earshot - is neither in Rice's nor Rutgers' best interests.

Pernetti politely answered that Rice's "enthusiasm and temperament is exactly
what I was looking to hire, and I won't ask him to change."

Thursday, Pernetti announced Rutgers had suspended Rice for three games and
fined $50,000 for in-game misconduct. He also will undergo anger-management
counseling.

World Gone Nuts, continued: Ever notice how the small of the back is located
directly opposite the large of the stomach? Well, there's now a direct
correlation between avarice for TV money and the decline in common decency.

In time, the inevitable loss of sports' best friends - ticket buyers - will be
too late to correct. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell already senses that decline,
but has blamed it on TV's terrific, high-definition coverage. Well, he got the
"TV" part right.

The ticket purchaser, once the most significant person in any enterprise, has
become the biggest sucker. A look at the league's national TV (8:20 p.m. ET or
later starts) outdoor game schedule for this week - mid-December - furthers the
tale:

Cincinnati at Philadelphia, Thursday night; San Francisco at New England,
tonight.

Other nationally televised outdoor night games this month included or will
include the Giants at Washington, Detroit at Green Bay, Houston at New England
and San Francisco at Seattle. The Bills this season will not be playing outdoors
in Buffalo on a December night.

That TV's interests now obliterate those of ticket buyers - who once could
reasonably expect games in cold climates to begin at 1 p.m. - is now a given,
more so than that ticket buyers will continue to suffer such abuse.

The NFL's grand TV gift to itself, the NFL Network, was predicated on Thursday
night games.

Prime time "flex" scheduling, which starts in Week 11, is the NFL's polite way
to describe the maltreatment of ticket buyers through the league's pledge of
full allegiance to TV money.

The NBA will play five games on Christmas Day, all for ESPN money. One or two
games won't do it.

So, on Christmas, thousands of arena workers will be leaving their homes to go
to work - many to be paid peanuts for selling peanuts. Common decency now takes
holidays off.

Of course, the best days to take the family to Yankees and Mets games always
were Saturdays and Sundays. Now the Saturday 1 p.m. games can be moved to 4:25
for Fox money and Sunday games from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. for ESPN money.

In-house customers now are taken-for-granted saps. They follow the orders sold
to TV, yet are also ordered to pay more for tickets. In other words, you have to
pay more to rent the shovel with which to bury yourself. How long can that last?

... and continued: The Seahawks, when they play the Bills today, will wear what
the team describes as their "alternative wolf-grey uniforms." Yup, the Seahawks
today will be wolves.

phil.mushnick@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

GIANT GOAL: GIVE THEM HELL IN ATL Big Blue invade Falcons' temple of Dome

BYLINE: and PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 123

LENGTH: 939 words


ATLANTA - In this case, the Giants hope familiarity breeds success.

They are on the road again today for what they are treating as a must-win game
oozing with playoff implications, a late-season test of where they are and, more
importantly, where they might be going.

"We've come to be very accustomed to this,'' Justin Tuck said. "It's kind of old
news for us. But we relish this role. We relish playing meaningful games in
December, especially on the road where we've had a lot of success under Coach
[Tom] Coughlin's tutelage about being on the road late in the season.''

This time, the Giants get to come out of the cold and step into the climate
-controlled Georgia Dome to face the 11-2 Falcons, owners of the best record in
the NFC, a team that already has clinched the NFC South and is vying for the No.
1 seed in the conference. That incentive is a sharp contrast to the way the
Giants (8-5) are clinging to their one-game lead in the NFC East, with the
Redskins and Cowboys (both 7-6) in hot pursuit.

"At the end of the day, we have to win this game, and I think it's more
important to us than it is to them at this point,'' Osi Umenyiora said.

"I think we like to show our stuff against the big-time opponents,'' Victor Cruz
added. "I don't know why. I don't know what it is, but there's just something
about it. I think we always come to play when we play against those big teams -
against the Green Bays and the San Franciscos - and this team is no different.
Hopefully we can come with that same kind of performance and get another victory
under our belts.''

A look inside the game:

BEST BATTLE

Falcons DE John Abraham vs. Giants LT Will Beatty: The Falcons have 28 sacks,
and Abraham has 10 of them - plus four forced fumbles. He has been a premier
pass-rusher and disruptive force since his days with the Jets. Beatty has been
durable and consistent in his first full year as a starter but can't take any of
those drive-killing holding penalties as he tries to keep Abraham from charging
in on Eli Manning.

TOUGH LOVE

RB David Wilson was the breakout star of the 52-point eruption against the
Saints, but offensive coordinator Kevin Gilbride is not going gaga.

"He's had chances. That was the first time he's done anything,'' Gilbride said.

With Ahmad Bradshaw out with a sprained knee, Wilson advances from a change of
pace to setting the pace as he readies for his first NFL start. The Falcons
aren't anything special (127 yards allowed per game) against the run, and it is
Wilson's ball, with newcomers Kregg Lumpkin and Ryan Torain the only options,
other than fullback Henry Hynoski.

"It's football. I've been playing it for a while now,'' Wilson said. "The
coaches know how to figure it out and decipher and give breathers and I'm not
the only running back on the team.''

END GAME

Jacquian Williams slipped back onto the field last week after missing the
previous six games with a strained knee and, as Wilson ran wild with the ball in
his hands, one of the team's best athletes on the defensive side made a quieter
impact.

"If I'm not mistaken, [Saints TE Jimmy] Graham did not have a catch against
Jacquian Williams," defensive coordinator Perry Fewell said.

Williams is the fastest linebacker on the roster, and his versatility makes him
a Fewell favorite. Williams could run with the towering Graham. Up next is Tony
Gonzalez, who doesn't run as well as he once did but in his 16th season is
tearing it up with 81 receptions for 831 yards and seven touchdowns. Physically,
Williams is up to this challenge, but Gonzalez is so savvy that he could have
his way with Williams, in just his second NFL season.

"I think I was asked last week, 'What do you see when [Williams] comes back,' "
Fewell said. "You see speed, you see quickness. You see an element you almost
forgot about because he hasn't been with you and you say, 'Oh man, yeah, I can
use this.' We'll definitely use him to our advantage.''

REVENGE IS MINE

Nothing the Falcons do today does anything to discount or dismiss last season's
humbling 24-2 playoff loss to the Giants, which in some circles exposed Atlanta
as a Super Bowl pretender. Nothing the Falcons do this regular season will have
much bearing on changing that perception, as it's all about the playoffs for
Smith and quarterback Matt Ryan, who are 0-3 in the postseason.

Still, seeing the Giants will stir up memories - all bad.

"Last year is last year, this year presents a totally different team, different
mentality,'' Antrel Rolle said. "That team is 11-2, which is hard to do in the
NFL, no matter what division you're in, no matter who you're playing.''

SHOP AT TARGET

No offense in the league has three players who have combined for more receiving
yards than Roddy White (1,140), Julio Jones (997) and Gonzalez (831). The
Falcons in the past were an incredibly well-balanced attack, but they have
slumped in the rushing department this season, with Michael Turner averaging
just 3.7 yards per carry and Jacquizz Rodgers surfacing as the more effective
runner. Still, it's a tough attack to keep quiet, especially in a noisy indoor
playpen. White is questionable with a knee injury, but the Giants are going
without two starters in their secondary - cornerback Prince Amukamara and safety
Kenny Phillips.

PAUL'S PICK

Eli Manning usually enjoys going to work in a dome, and he should be able to
keep the Atlanta defense off-balance -as long as David Wilson provides enough of
a ground threat. Key will be if defense can limit big plays, because Matt Ryan
and Co. will make a bunch of little ones.

GIANTS 23, FALCONS 20

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BIRD WATCHERS: The Giants must contain Matt Ryan and the Falcons today.
(NY Post: Charles Wenzelberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday

Jim Dale's long road

BYLINE: By CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 793 words


Last night Jim Dale opened in "The Road to Mecca" at the American Airlines
Theatre. It will play until March 4.

Same Jim Dale who's voiced every "Harry Potter" book. Same Jim Dale who
lyricised the Oscar-nominated movie theme "Georgy Girl," which sold 7 million
records. Same Tony-winning "Toast of Broadway" Jim Dale who starred in "Barnum"
a lifetime ago. So why this revival and not one of "Barnum"?

"You crazy?" he said. "I danced on a tightrope then. I'm 76 now. Lucky I can
walk on the floor. My dancing now is into the kitchen.

"I picked this because Rosemary Harris, whom I love, phoned me to do a reading,
which we did without even rehearsing. Fifty people came, loved it and said,
'Let's do it.' Rosemary never leaves the stage. I come in at Act 1's end. Act 2,
where they boo and hate me because my character, a preacher, wants to put an old
lady into a home, I have 500 lines.

"And now I'm polishing a one-man show for maybe the Long Wharf. I did stand-up
comedy in England at 17, so it's stuff from old music halls' early days. I've
kept all those beautiful jokes that can make you laugh 100 years later. Now I'll
pass them on to the younger generation."

Is he rich from the "Harry Potter" audio versions?

"No. Nobody got anything from royalties. We were paid fees by the hour. Like a
lawyer. If I'd had a percentage, I'd be very rich. I wasn't dealing with J.K.
Rowling. I was dealing with Warner Brothers.

"I'm not recognized in the street, which is wonderful, so I don't have to live
hidden in a limo as others must. But I am noticed the minute you hear that
voice. Look, 200 million people grew up with Harry Potter. At McDonald's the
other day, a young boy heard me and said: 'You're Harry Potter!' And then said,
'Can you order me a hamburger like Dumbledore?' "

SANDRA Bernhard knocking Denver Bronco quarterback Tim Tebow for his pro-life
stance . . . Orthodox local boy Jack Lew, replacing White House Chief of Staff
Bill Daley, returns each month to Riverdale's Hebrew Institute . . . Minka Kelly
says her mom made up her name. OK by me, but Mama must be a centenarian because
I'm reading a newspaper clip of a San Clemente, Calif., lady named Minka Disbrow
- age 100.

TOM Clancy: "I believe sex is one of the most beautiful, natural, wholesome
things that money can buy." He said it, but I'm told it originally came from
Steve Martin.

AT the New York City Police Foundation breakfast, Ray Kelly told a roomful of
bricks that have built this town: Crime is down 34 percent, 94 percent fewer
cars stolen than in 1990, 2011's the lowest murder rate since 1963. Also, the US
has 1,800 city-to-city law enforcement entities. Also, the NYPD - our last line
of defense against global terrorism - has foiled 14 attempts. And for insurance,
his agents are in Abu Dhabi, Singapore, London, Jerusalem, Paris, Manila, inside
about every government that exists.

KRISTEN Johnston, late of the even later "3rd Rock From the Sun," writes "from
my untidy desk" that 1 in 3 teens meets the criteria for addiction, the US has
35 sober high schools, and she'll open one here next year. Feb. 15 is her
fund-raiser with Bobby Cannavale, America Ferrara, Natasha Lyonne, Rachel
Dratch, Andy Cohen.

She says: "A bunch getting drunk and laughing their asses off to help recovering
kids get an education just warms the cockles - whateverthehell those are."

Such a touching tribute.

A magazine (catalog?) I never ever before saw, Time for Me: Dedicated to the Art
of Well-Being, in pages titled Intimate Pleasures, lists 21 different sex toys.
Feel Good Store, another sent to me, has a Sexual Health insert with 24 such. If
this country's going down the tubes, it's not just politically.

PUBLISHERS going heavy on people now gone. March has Jack Kerouac's long lost
first novel, "The Sea Is My Brother." June brings "I Got a Name: The Jim Croce
Story." He wrote songs like "Bad, Bad Leroy Brown." Lest you crave more
politics, July has "Final Victory," about FDR's WWII presidential campaign.

And speaking of politics, anyone know in Arkansas it's a crime not to pronounce
it Arkansaw. In Joliet, Ill., a fine if mispronouncing it Jolly-ette instead of
Joe-Lee-ette.

A CINDY Crawford memory: "With the word epitome, I once made a fool of myself to
Richard Gere. In the country in front of a little real estate office, reading
the description of houses, I go, 'This one's the epitoam of Westchester living.'
And he goes, 'What did you say?!' He actually thought I'm somewhat ignorant."

BRUCE Littlefield, writing "The Bedtime Book for Cats," reports this happening
in Queens: Someone put a live cat in a mailbox. Unwanted but apparently not
upset, the healthy cat has been rescued.

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday

ALO-HA! JETS 'LEI' SUPER LOW Rex and his Pro Bowlers must watch Pats, Giants
duke it out for real crown

BYLINE: STEVE SERBY

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 650 words


So there are the Pro Bowl Jets in Hawaii, doing the hula, these Lei Hey Kids -
and there isn't any other place they would rather be than Indianapolis, where
there are no coconut trees, no glistening blue waters, no mai tais under a warm,
golden sunshine ... just the Super Bowl.

The Super Bowl Rex Ryan guaranteed the Jets would be playing in. The Super Bowl
Tom Brady and Bill Belichick and the hated Patriots will be playing in instead.

The Super Bowl the Giants will be playing in.

The Super Bowl all of the Jets will be watching a week from tomorrow, though not
at Santonio Holmes' house, that much we know.

Big brother Peyton Manning gets to watch little brother Eli Manning try to win
his second Super Bowl championship, and the big brother Jets (eye roll) get to
watch the little brother Giants (yeah right) try to win their fourth Super Bowl.

So next summer Ryan will be telling us he isn't here to kiss Belichick's four
rings, or coach Tom Coughlin's two rings.

And, oh, by the way, if you are 43 years old or younger and a Jets fan, you
weren't around the one and only time your team won a championship.

From Broadway Joe to Broadway No for you.

Ah, but think about what the Giants will be missing when they board their buses
outside the Timex Performance Center Monday morning for the ride to Newark
Airport, where their United charter will be waiting to fly them to Big Blue
heaven, and Super Bowl XLVI.

From our friends at Google:

Hawaii Luau: What could be better than spending an evening under the beautiful
star-filled velvety dark tropical sky at a traditional Hawaiian luau? Actually
meaning the green leafy portion of the Hawaiian staple food taro, the word luau
is now a word to describe a party, and has become synonymous with fun,
entertainment and delicious dining! Choose from a great variety of Hawaii's most
authentic luaus, and be prepared to be mesmerized by dancers and singers
performing both traditional and modern Hawaiian songs and hulas, gasp in awe at
the dexterous fire knife dancers, dive into authentic Hawaiian food cooked with
Aloha, and so much more!

Tell all that to Darrelle Revis, Nick Mangold, Brandon Moore and D'Brickashaw
Ferguson, who thought for sure they would be rehearsing answers for Media Day
next Tuesday and gearing up for the first New York-New York Super Bowl, instead
of gorging on roast pig somewhere on the island (certainly not Revis Island).

But, hey, maybe it's a good thing they're not, or did you miss the way Manning
and Victor Cruz and Jason Pierre-Paul and Justin Tuck delivered that "Who's Your
Daddy?" butt-kicking at MetLife Stadium last month?

Maybe it's a good thing they will be far, far away from some of the national
media speculating wildlessly and aimlessly about Peyton coming to the Jets.
Right! Wait a second, isn't Brett Favre sick of the farm in Hattiesburg? Jenn
Sterger would like to know (so she can join the Witness Protection Program if
the Cellphone Gunslinger is).

It's a shame Rex's Jets fell apart at the seams at the very time Coughlin
unified his Giants for their second Super Bowl run in four years. Imagine what
kind of wig Ryan might have worn for Media Day. How would you like to be a fly
on the wall Ryan has to watch Coughlin and the Giants shake hands with the
president in the White House?

And that backpage photo ... where's Mark Sanchez? You mean to tell me the
Sanchise wasn't voted to the Pro Bowl? Is there no justice?

Well there's still hope for a better tomorrow.

The NFC is a 4-point favorite over the AFC in the Pro Bowl. Maybe our Jets'
representatives can help the AFC pull off one of the he biggest upset since
Super Bowl III!

Alas, our Jets can't seem to rid themselves of the black cloud that follows them
everywhere. Today's Honolulu forecast? Rain.

J-E-T-S: Just Enjoy The Show.

The Eli Manning-Tom Brady Show.

steve.serby @nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GROUNDED: While the Jets have a few players going to the Pro Bowl in
Hawaii on Sunday, the Patriots and Giants, who handed Gang Green three losses
this season, are going to the Super Bowl Rex Ryan so boldly claimed would belong
to his team. Jason Pierre-Paul sacking Mark Sanchez, and Rob Gronkowski's
touchdown catch (right) in front of Donald Strickland had something to do with
that. [Getty Images, Reuters (Gronkowski)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 6, 2012 Monday

Home, sweet home

BYLINE: JENNIFER GOULD KEIL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 290 words


More details are emerging about sweets tsar François Payard's move to Columbus
Circle.

Payard, a third-generation pastry chef, and his partner, restaurateur Marlon
Abela, are opening an 1,100-square-foot patisserie in the lobby of 3 Columbus
Circle - that's the new building at West 57th Street and Broadway owned by SL
Green and the Moinian Group that just secured ad giant Young & Rubicam as an
anchor tenant.

FPB, short for François Payard Bakery, will be the duo's third location New
York, with more on the way, including a flagship on the Upper East Side. That's
along with a growing global empire: Payard is also in Las Vegas, Japan and South
Korea.

It will be a classic spot, with some seating, takeout and packaged items, and is
expected to open in the next four to six months.

Jeffrey Roseman, executive vice president for Newmark Knight Frank, represented
the landlord in the deal.

n

On another sweet note, two candy lovers in East Harlem have just opened Coco Le
Vu Candy Shop on East 110th Street. Inspired by Dylan's Candy Bar, Coco Le Vu
offers more than 500 different types of candy, as well as fruits dipped in
chocolate, prepared by the shop's dessert chef.

At about 2,550 square feet, the shop also includes space for birthday parties
and other events.

Mark Tergesen, managing director of retail leasing for ABS Partners, and Jay
Einbender represented Coco Le Vu, and found the sweet spot - another good sign
for Harlem.

n

WE HEAR THAT... Le Rendez Vous wine bar patrons were wild over the belly dancing
and Turkish wine tasting from Sevilen, imported by Kalara Corp. The Sevilen
vineyards are in the Aegean, around Izmir - a warm Mediterranean climate - and
the Anatolian plateau, a cooler region.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 6, 2012 Monday

Carlyle is close to $5B deal [Exclusive]

BYLINE: Josh Kosman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 241 words


The Carlyle Group is thisclose to sealing a nearly $5 billion buyout of DuPont's
auto paint business, The Post has learned.

Carlyle, which may still team with another private-equity firm on the buyout, is
offering about eight times earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and
amortization, sources said, which is a bit higher than DuPont had been
expecting.

The deal, which could still fall apart, would leave bids by Apollo Management,
Blackstone and KKR in its wake.

It is Carlyle's second big victory in less than a month.

Carlyle, which is known for its Washington, DC, political ties, announced late
last month it had joined with BC Partners in a $3.5 billion deal to buy
industrials company Hamilton Sundstrand from United Technologies. They would be
two of the year's biggest buyouts.

Carlyle may have reason to be aggressively pursuing buyouts, a source said.

As of Dec. 31, the firm had spent only 63 percent of the money from its $13.7
billion 2007 North American fund, according to a CalPERS pension website.

These days buyout firms don't start raising new funds until they have invested
about 75 percent or more of their prior vehicles. Otherwise, present investors
wonder why they need to invest new money, and pay more management fees.

Yet this year Caryle is raising a new $10 billion fund; it reportedly has
lowered its fees on its new fund, and raised $2 billion.

Carlyle and DuPont did not return calls.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 6, 2012 Monday

Carlyle is close to $5B deal [Exclusive]

BYLINE: Josh Kosman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 241 words


The Carlyle Group is thisclose to sealing a nearly $5 billion buyout of DuPont's
auto paint business, The Post has learned.

Carlyle, which may still team with another private-equity firm on the buyout, is
offering about eight times earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and
amortization, sources said, which is a bit higher than DuPont had been
expecting.

The deal, which could still fall apart, would leave bids by Apollo Management,
Blackstone and KKR in its wake.

It is Carlyle's second big victory in less than a month.

Carlyle, which is known for its Washington, DC, political ties, announced late
last month it had joined with BC Partners in a $3.5 billion deal to buy
industrials company Hamilton Sundstrand from United Technologies. They would be
two of the year's biggest buyouts.

Carlyle may have reason to be aggressively pursuing buyouts, a source said.

As of Dec. 31, the firm had spent only 63 percent of the money from its $13.7
billion 2007 North American fund, according to a CalPERS pension website.

These days buyout firms don't start raising new funds until they have invested
about 75 percent or more of their prior vehicles. Otherwise, present investors
wonder why they need to invest new money, and pay more management fees.

Yet this year Caryle is raising a new $10 billion fund; it reportedly has
lowered its fees on its new fund, and raised $2 billion.

Carlyle and DuPont did not return calls.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Not our type of Guy FREE RANGE

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 518 words


THE Guy's American Kitchen waitress studied the half-chewed pork, slaw, salmon,
mashed potatoes and maybe moon rocks we'd left on our plates. I wouldn't feed
the mess to a cat - the end-product of our struggle to extract edible elements
from heaps of sugar and sludge masquerading as normal food.

"Would you like me to wrap that up for you?" she chirped.

I promise: One day soon, I'll go back to reviewing real restaurants with real
chefs. Enough of laugh riots like Ryu, Purple Fig and Mihoko's 21 Grams!

But until the fall's legitimate openings actually show up, we'll do with the
West 44th Street punch line from TV kitchen clown/wannabe rocker/global menace
Guy Fieri.

You expect it to be awful, of course - how could things like "Unyawns cajun
chicken ciabatta with donkey sauce" not be awful? But Fieri must believe his
name alone will fill 500 seats, as if Times Square tourists couldn't also choose
Applebee's, Bubba Gump Shrimp or the very respectable Carmine's down the block.

Guy's isn't bad looking for what it is - a colorful, three-level sprawl of
Americana, guitars, memorabilia and murals framed in warm brick. But one night,
with maybe 400 seats free, the hostess showed us to the worst in the house: a
tiny "table" for two in the deserted front bar.

A protest scored us a perch in the far-back "Studio" room, where the televised
NFL barely took the edge off turd-shaped Awesome Pretzel Chicken Tenders,
tasting not of chicken, pretzel or any recognizable digestible matter.

Guy's does factory-farm cuisine one better: Everything emerges from mysterious
engines, deep in the bowels of the former New York Times loading dock, tooled to
make all items taste alike.

I'm a soft touch for junk food turned out with integrity - but not for stale,
ice-cold focaccia ($3.95 for "bread"!), sashimi tacos with scarcely a molecule
of tuna, or bone-dry pulled pork on unheated buns.

Sugar by the truckload has the run of the menu. It glazes commercial-grade
salmon and huli-huli chicken. It pops up in a dip for mozzarella and pepperoni
scrunched inside a leathery panko crust. In "Thai chili" form, it bleeds through
"California egg rolls" filled with chicken, avocado, ginger, peppers - but
tasting of none.

One good dish squeaked through: juicy, braised pork shank which, while tasting
not at all of the promised General Tso, peeled easily from the bone.

Pasta ended the rally. Fettuccine came with cajun-spiced blackened chicken
breast - random meat fragments neither blackened nor spiced. Creamy Parmesan
sauce could moonlight as engine lubricant. The plate must hold 3,000 calories.
Could one human eat it all? If so, should he or she be allowed out of the house?

Irish-German chocolate cake was the sort of sickly-sweet affair that pleases
when you're drunk at 2 a.m. It came with stone-hard "malt balls" that failed to
yield to knife or fork.

I took one of the balls home. A steak knife severed it in two, but my teeth
didn't make a dent. A hammer did the trick. By then I decided to leave further
taste-testing to Times Square's bus-tour gourmands.

scuozzo@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Guy Fieri in his restaurant; the food's terrible, but at least there
are souvenirs for tourists.Gabi Porter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

Death in our backyard

BYLINE: CINDY ADAMS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 836 words


MANY of us knew people in that Connecticut community. One drove past the school
about the time it was happening. From her vantage, all seemed serene. Returning
home, passing again, knowing nothing, it was sirens, speeding police cars,
traffic, commotion, helicopters overhead.

The principal, who was killed, shared my dog breeder.

A lady I know well, transporting a weakened outpatient to the local hospital for
an expected blood transfusion, was refused. Medical authorities instantly
reserved all practitioners, rooms and facilities for the anticipated wounded.
They hadn't yet known there were so few wounded - only dead.

The whole world feels the pain. Jamie Foxx had a birthday party, 14 people, at
La Promenade on 23rd Street, complete with his Santa Claus hat and carrot cake.
But before Tobey Maguire and Leo DiCaprio sang Happy Birthday, he requested a
moment of silence to remember the pain in Connecticut.

HOLLYWOOD's hills are alive with the sound of Oscar parties. Peter Cincotti was
flown to Spago. Universal threw a jazzy "Les Miz" rock 'n' roller gala. Matt
Damon hosted lunch for 100 at the Bel Air. Ang Lee of "The Life of Pi"
celebrated the life of a maybe Academy Award winner at Sunset Tower. Clooney had
cocktails yesterday for Ben Affleck. Saturday night Jodie Foster put on a
holiday party apropos of nothing.

MIAMI's Stylecaster gave its own soiree at the Gale. I don't know why. Nate
Berkus came to support his baby sister. I don't know why for that, either . . .
Public relations lady Peggy Siegal suffering a pain in her neck. No comment
about Peggy being a pain in the neck . . . At Da Tommaso, Michael Learned of
off-B'way's "The Outgoing Tide" said her late father was in the CIA.

ABOUT "The Impossible," a true story of survival in the 2004 tsunami that
decimated Southeast Asia, Naomi Watts said:

"I play the mother of three children. We shot in a tank. It was difficult. I had
security and felt safe, but this most difficult thing I ever did was physically
demanding. You rehearsed . . . OK, so now comes this wave. It's unsettling . . .
then another wave . . . then water was added . . . it was hard but done very
believably.

"When I was underwater, I had to remain in the tank in that chair that spun
around. It suddenly malfunctioned and stopped spinning. I got a little hurt when
I couldn't get out of the chair. The water was warm, but there was a certain
level of panic and fear.

"Our art director created a huge area of devastation. We studied research people
and designs, drawings, actual pictures and news videos. A great deal of accuracy
went into this, and we were respectful of people living there.

"We filmed in the very reconstructed hotel, the exact site, where this actual
family had been. They came to visit us. I met my actual counterpart and stood in
the very space she was when the tsunami struck. Our story follows this family."

Naomi and Liev Schreiber's two sons, Samuel and Alexander, were with them. Says
Liev: "Still now, twice a month, they beg to return to what they called Hermit
Crab City - because those hermit crabs were crawling on the beach. I very much
want to go back."

Having never been there before, co-star Ewan McGregor is another who hopes to
return. "It was surreal. Seeing garbage, debris, a police boat ¹/  mile inland.
I made friends with a bar owner there who'd lost his entire family in the
tsunami. It's a testament to the Asian spirit."

One personal P.S.: Two cherished age-20ish daughters of my friends in
Johannesburg had begged to be allowed to go to Phuket - alone - for a first-ever
Christmas holiday away from home. Their parents refused. They pleaded.
Permission was finally given.

When horror struck, they sought refuge, clinging to each other, behind a
slammed-shut bathroom door. Water crashed through their flimsy beachfront
facility, and one was swept away. Another subsequently sustained more than a
dozen surgeries.

I know Thailand's Queen Sirikit for decades. I've repeatedly been with Her
Majesty in Bangkok, her upcountry Hua Hin palace and New York. After my friend's
child was lost, I went to Thailand. Her Majesty, who'd lost a grandson in the
experience, assigned me an Army general and Air Force plane to try to locate
her. Involved in the rescue, Israelis with disaster expertise had photographed
and documented every recovered body part. Her remains were ID'd by a tattoo.

NOTE to Bloomberg: Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia at Carnegie Club cigar
lounge puffing away with Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett . . . Note from Vivienne
Westwood: "I design punk because I'm upset with what's happening in the world."
So global tragedy inspired orange with pink fringe? . . . South Korea's music
Gangnam hotshot? Did you know "gangnam" is a district "south of Seoul's river"?
It means "nouveau riche." Like Left Bank or Greenwich Village-ish. Or Vivienne
Westwoody.

COMING commanders-in-choice: Clinton, Cuomo, Christie.

Only in the New York area, kids, only in the New York area.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
