
                               1 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday

CLIMATE HEAT ON O FROM BOTH PARTIES

BYLINE: CHARLES HURT Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 577 words


WASHINGTON - President Obama was skewered from the right yesterday for using the
Gulf oil spill to advance his climate-change agenda, and at the same time
lambasted from the left for not giving concrete guidance to get that legislation
approved.

Democrats are pushing a highly controversial "cap and trade" plan that would
penalize companies for producing carbon dioxide, but the bill has been stalled
in the Senate.

Republicans charge the measure amounts to a massive tax hike on productive
companies and would kill jobs. Democrats say it is the only way to save the
planet from so-called greenhouse gases that they say are responsible for climate
change.

Obama is "holding the Gulf hostage to a national energy tax, which the president
has been trying to pass for a year and a half," Senate Republican Leader Mitch
McConnell told Fox News yesterday.

While the bill contains no direct tax increase on gasoline or energy use, it is
widely agreed that corporations and especially energy companies will pass their
increased costs on to consumers.

Even Sen. Lindsay Graham (R-SC), who helped draft the energy legislation, has
said as much. He withdrew his support for the bill last month, saying it is too
difficult to pass in the current political climate.

McConnell calls the bill a "light-switch tax," arguing that consumers will get
nicked every time they use virtually any form of existing energy.

"They call it a climate bill. What it is is a national energy tax," McConnell
said.

From the left, Obama was blasted for not providing Democrats in Congress more
specific guidance on how to advance the legislation.

Liberal blogger Josh Green accused Obama of "going small" in his address by
neglecting to argue more specifically for carbon caps.

And the liberal Mother Jones magazine warned that Democrats will remain adrift
on climate legislation without forceful guidance from Obama.

Under the most-widely discussed cap-and-trade scheme, caps would be set on the
carbon that companies such as energy plants could emit.

But a market would be set up allowing companies to buy and sell credits allowing
them to go over the emission limits.

While the House passed an climate-change bill last year, the Senate version
remains stalled.

Some Democratic members are concerned about the murky science behind global
warming, and worry about raising costs for voters or doing anything that will
result in lost jobs.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, curbing emissions by 15 percent
would amount to a 3.3 percent loss in after-tax income for poorest households in
America.

Middle-income households would see their post-tax paychecks eroded by anywhere
from $800 to $1,500 and the rich would see their incomes decline by about 1.7
percent, according to the congressional auditors.

Obama's Environmental Protection Agency this week released an analysis showing
lower costs - around $79 to $146 per household annually.

Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.), one of the authors of the bill, spun those numbers
as costing a household less than $1 per day.

---

The Senate's cap-and-trade bill:

* Aims to cut greenhousegas emissions 17% by 2020 and 80% by 2050

* Would force 7,500 factories and power plants to slash CO2 emissions

* Creates a market for buying and selling permission to exceed the emission caps

* Provides $10 billion for the development of "clean coal" technologies

* Sets aside $54 billion in loan guarantees for building new nuclear plants

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -U.S. Senate badge logo. -NO SMOKING: Smokestack industries - and
everyday energy consumers - could pay a price under carbon-emission limits. [AP]
-U.S. Senate badge logo.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 22, 2010 Monday

THE EPA'S CLIMATE CON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 387 words


Looks like the great climate-change unraveling came none too soon.

Three states last week filed papers challenging the Environmental Protection
Agency's scheme to use global-warming fears to seize sweeping power over much of
the US economy.

Officials in Texas, Virginia and Alabama charge that recent revelations
challenging the scientific "consensus" that humans are causing catastrophic
warming also undermine the EPA's decision to regulate greenhouse gasses as a
pollutant - which would give it inordinate power over nearly every industry in
the country.

But what about that warming? Certainly, it hasn't been a good few months for
climate alarmists.

Among the recent revelations:

* Leaked e-mails in December showed that climate scientists at Britain's
formerly prestigious Climate Research Unit conspired to hide inconvenient data
while attempting to intimidate warming skeptics.

* A key finding of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change - which won
the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 along with Al Gore - was revealed last month to be
utterly bogus.

The IPCC had claimed, with no evidence beyond a citation from a mass-market
science magazine, that global warming would cause Himalayan glaciers to
disappear by 2035.

* Then, this month, CRU director Phil Jones admitted that temperatures in the
Middle Ages may have been even higher than they are today; for technical
reasons, this was a huge blow to the alarmists' case. And Jones also confessed
that there's been no statistically significant warming in the past 15 years.

Alarmists have been reduced to arguing that drastic steps should be taken to
curtail carbon emissions just in case climate change is as bad as they say.

But such an argument completely ignores the costs of such a move - which the EPA
is dead set on imposing.

Giving the agency power over carbon would subject factories, farms and even
large apartment buildings to onerous new red tape - and raise the prospect of
the agency shutting some of them down entirely.

Bye-bye, economic recovery.

Not that the EPA cares about whether or not there's a "consensus." The agency's
ruling would essentially impose by fiat the cap-and-trade tax that President
Obama couldn't get through Congress.

All that matters is its own power.

Here's hoping it can be checked - before it's too late.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday

OSAMA BLOWS ECO-SMOKE

BYLINE: JENNIFER FERMINO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 358 words


Sounding more like a Park Slope food co-op clerk than the leader of the world's
most-feared terror cabal, Osama bin Laden released a new tape in which he gripes
about how the United States isn't taking global warming seriously and bemoans
the corrupting influence of big business.

The unlikely advocate for green living - who has no qualms about having
gleefully killed almost 3,000 victims on American soil on 9/11 - wants the
global-warming naysayers to lay off it.

"This is a message to the whole world about those responsible for climate change
and its repercussions - whether intentionally or unintentionally - and about the
action we must take," said bin Laden.

"Speaking about climate change is not a matter of intellectual luxury. The
phenomenon is an actual fact."

In the less-than-three-minute-long audiotape, which was aired on al Jazeera
yesterday, bin Laden put the fault for climate change squarely on Western
nations and bemoaned the influence of big business.

"All of the industrialized countries, especially the big ones, bear
responsibility for the global-warming crisis," bin Laden lectured on the tape,
which has not been verified by intelligence agencies.

He then ripped into his favorite whipping boy - former President George W. Bush
- for not ratifying the Kyoto Protocol, an agreement that placed
emission-reduction targets on developed countries like the United States.

"George Bush Junior, preceded by [the US] Congress, dismissed the agreement to
placate giant corporations. And they are themselves standing behind speculation,
monopoly and soaring living costs," said bin Laden, who had briefly addressed
climate change before but never in such detail.

"They are also behind globalization and its tragic implications. And whenever
the perpetrators are found guilty, the heads of state rush to rescue them using
public money."

---

Just asking . . .

What will Osama's next tape be about?

* Mandatory helmets for all camel riders

* Why banning hookah smoking in caves makes everyone healthier

* How the public option can be revived

* The gentrification of Kabul

* Vampire Weekend's new CD: brilliant or annoying?

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Osama bin Laden in tye-dye shirt with peace necklace flashing a peace
(V) sign with his fingers. [Post photo illustration]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday

HOT-BUTTON DC POLITICS

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 120 words


WASHINGTON - Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham yesterday threatened to withdraw his
support for energy and climate legislation if Democrats move first on
immigration reform.

The South Carolina senator is one of three co-sponsors of a comprehensive energy
and climate-change bill scheduled to be unveiled tomorrow.

In a letter to Senate leaders, Graham threatened to back away from the measure
if Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) moves immigration reform first, in
what the Republican called "a cynical political ploy."

Pushing immigration ahead of climate legislation would anger environmentalists,
who see this as their best chance in recent years to pass a bill addressing
global warming.  Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday

WORST US SPILL A SLUDGE HAMMER

BYLINE: GEOFF EARLE in Washington and ANDY SOLTIS in New York

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 576 words


The White House yesterday conceded the growing Gulf oil spill is the worst in US
history - while live underwater video indicates it's going to get worse.

Administration officials had hoped for weeks that the massive leak off the
Louisiana coast would be contained, but yesterday said it would exceed the
damage of the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster, which dumped 11 million gallons near
Alaska.

"I don't think there is any doubt, unfortunately," Carol Browner, President
Obama's director of energy and climate change policy, said on ABC's "Good
Morning America."

The gloomy forecast came amid several developments in the massive, five-week-old
environmental crisis:

* The outlook for an end to the crisis grew darker - literally. An underwater
video feed that shows the oil plume coming from the sunken rig getting much
darker.

That's ominous, because it may mean the leak has hit an underwater reservoir
that holds more oil and less gas, said a top oil engineering expert, Bob Bea of
the University of California. Oil is heavier and more polluting than gas, which
can evaporate.

* The White House, reacting to fierce media criticism of what's being called
"Obama's Katrina," said the president will interrupt his vacation plans to visit
the stricken area on Friday to review the failed cleanup efforts.

Obama has grown so frustrated that he barked at aides during a recent meeting,
"Plug the damn hole!" The Washington Post reported.

Officials also said the president will get a report tomorrow from Interior
Secretary Ken Salazar on the April 20 explosion that destroyed the rig - killing
11 workers - and take questions from reporters in his first news conference in
months.

* A new poll shows the public's patience with the president is being exhausted.
The CNN/Opinion Research survey found that 51 percent of Americans disapprove of
Obama's handling of the disaster, while 46 percent approve. Only one-third of
Americans had faulted him in a previous poll.

The survey also found only 16 percent of Americans think they will be spared the
spill's impact.

* A bombshell Interior Department report revealed that the government inspectors
who should have been overseeing offshore drilling were busy watching Internet
porn, and accepted football tickets, free flights, shotguns and an array of
trinkets from oil and gas companies.

Auditors found that 13 staffers for the agency, the Minerals Management Service,
had porn on their computers. A source also said one staffer took crystal meth
while on an offshore oil platform.

The mounting pressure on Obama was evident during a testy meeting with Senate
Republicans, at which he cited the spill as a reason to work together on energy
legislation.

The White House said there was a "good exchange" of views. But Sen. Pat Roberts
(R-Kan.) said Obama blew his top and "lectured" the lawmakers.

"He needs to take a Valium before he comes and talks to Republicans and just
calm down . . . The more he talked, the more he got upset," he said.

Meanwhile, BP, the oil giant that owns the rig, will try again today to plug the
underwater gusher with the help of robots and a complex procedure called "top
kill."

The company's engineers hope to inject heavy drilling fluids into the well,
something that has never been done before at the depth of a mile.

---

Greased poll

51 percent of Americans disapprove of President Obama's handling of the oil
spill

46 percent approve

Source: CNN/Opinion Research

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -President Barack Obama. -SEA CHANGE: A change in color between May 18
(left) and yesterday (May 25) could indicate a higher concentration of oil in
the Gulf leak. [AP] -President Barack Obama.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

ENDING ONE-PARTY RULE IN NEW YORK

BYLINE: DEAN SKELOS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 697 words


SCOTT Brown's upset victory last week in Massachusetts follows last fall's
Republican wins by Chris Christie in New Jersey and Rob McDonnell in Virginia.
Something is happening, all across the country.

Even in New York - where Ed Mangano and Rob Astorino won the Nassau and
Westchester county-executive races last November. And even in New York City,
where the GOP picked up City Council seats the same day.

Nationally and here at home, voters are disillusioned by one-party rule - and
are holding Democrats accountable and electing Republicans.

We GOP state senators are seeing something new: For the first time in memory,
Republicans from all walks of life - upstate, in the suburbs and in the city,
too - are reaching out to us, seeking to run. Many have never run for office -
but they're angry at Democrats who promised change and failed to deliver.

Whether the issue is health care and national security in Washington or taxes
and spending in New York, Republicans, independents and even Democrats are
rising up and saying enough is enough.

As we've seen in New York, one-party rule breeds arrogance and contempt for
taxpayers. Democrats control every statewide office and both houses of the
Legislature.

They took control of the state Senate just over a year ago, after campaigning on
a message of change. But the only change people have seen is for the worse.

The one-party rulers have stuck New Yorkers with new taxes and fees, bloated
budgets and wasteful spending. Businesses are leaving the state because of the
hostile climate. And people are voting with their feet, moving to Florida and
other states that don't tax you from cradle to grave.

Just two years ago, New York's budget totaled $118 billion. The budget proposed
last week by Gov. Paterson spends more than $135 billion. That's a $17 billion
rise in spending over a two-year period - at a time when state revenues are
collapsing.

The governor proposes another $1 billion in new taxes and fees on top of the
more than $10 billion in higher taxes and fees that Democrats approved last
year.

All of this amid a recession, when countless New Yorkers are having to make do
with less.

To make matters worse, Democrats in the Senate and Assembly are already saying
they'll add even more spending to the governor's budget, which will only lead to
more taxes and greater misery.

Like we did last year, Republicans will reject any budget that hikes taxes and
spends beyond our means. We believe job creation should be the top priority, not
an afterthought. Will the Democrats reject our ideas, as they did last year?

Last week in Albany was telling. Democrats had a chance to prove they could work
with Republicans and do something right - and again they blew it. At issue was a
bill to boost New York's chances to compete for as much as $700 million in
federal Race to the Top funds for our schools - a measure that likely would have
passed with votes from Republicans and Democrats.

But the bill wasn't to the liking of the leaders of the Democratic machine - so
the party leaders refused to allow it to come to a vote, stopped us from acting
on behalf of New York taxpayers.

Such partisan behavior has no place in government. In Albany or Washington,
Massachusetts or New Jersey, taxpayers want elected officials from all parties
to work together and get things done. They want us to listen to them and respond
to their problems, not make things worse.

With every state office up for election this fall, the people will have a
tremendous opportunity to take back their government. The battleground will be
the state Senate. Voters across New York face a clear choice: Continue one-party
Democratic rule, or restore bipartisan governance that's responsive to the
taxpayer.

We've seen the consequences of one- party rule in Albany: More taxes, more
spending - and more people unemployed. That just won't cut it anymore.

Scott Brown's dramatic victory proved that angry voters can bring about historic
change even in the bluest of states. Change is definitely coming to New York,
and this time it will be for the better.

Dean Skelos, the New York state Senate minority leader, represents Nassau
County.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Paterson: Spending up $17B in two years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 8, 2010 Monday

ENVIRO'S SEXY TOME

BYLINE: Kate Sheehy

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 130 words


Global warming was never this hot.

The top UN climate-control official, who has already taken heat for his panel's
error-riddled, 2007 report predicting the melting of the Himalayan glaciers, is
now having his feet held to the fire for penning a racy novel.

Rajendra Pachauri's conservative countrymen in India don't appreciate his
rampant use of such phrases as "voluptuous breasts" in the tome - nor the fact
that the book, which features the sexcapades of an aging environmentalist, is
being promoted by the country's biggest gas producer, The Times of London
reports today.

Pachauri, 69, oversees the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which
was forced to correct its report two years ago that predicted that the
Himalayas' glaciers could disappear by 2035.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 2, 2010 Friday

O GETS FUEL-HARDY - SETS TOUGH 35-MPG RULE FOR 2016

BYLINE: S.A. MILLER Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 416 words


WASHINGTON - As part of its battle against climate change, the Obama
administration yesterday jacked up fuel efficiency requirements for cars and
light trucks to a gas-sipping average of 35.5 mpg by 2016.

The new standard per fleet will cost automakers $52 billion and boost a car's
sticker price by $926, as President Obama makes good on his promise to move
America toward a "clean energy, Climate-friendly economy," officials said.

The administration boasted that the 8 mpg increase from the 27.3 mpg requirement
in 2011 will save motorists $3,000 in fuel over the life of a vehicle and save
the country 1.8 billion barrels of oil.

"We will be helping American motorists save money at the pump, while putting
less pollution in the air," Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a joint
statement with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson.

Jackson said, "Our economic and environmental priorities go hand in hand."

The push for automakers to churn out more hybrid vehicles, hyper-efficient
engines and electric cars is not expected to cramp Obama's style while he is
president. He tools around in a blast-proof limousine that is estimated to get
less than 10 mpg.

The White House did not immediately respond to The Post's question of whether
Obama planned to get a more fuel-efficient ride in light of the new mandate.

Obama struck an agreement on the new standards last May with automakers, unions,
state officials and environmentalists, but the rule was not finalized until
yesterday.

It is part of a broad strategy by the EPA to rein in greenhouse-gas emissions
throughout the economy, including cracking down on pollution from oil refineries
and power plants.

The oil-industry lobby American Petroleum Institute complained that the higher
mpg standard was just the start of EPA meddling in businesses large and small.

"The rule is not just about vehicle efficiency. It's about the EPA overreaching
to create an opportunity for regulating greenhouse-gas emissions from virtually
every firm and business in America, no matter how unwieldy, intrusive and
burdensome such regulation might be," the group said in a statement.

---

Clean break

THE NEW FUEL POLICY:

* Attains 35.5 mpg for cars and light trucks by 2016

* Sets stricter carbondioxide emission standards

* Saves 1.8 billion gallons of oil

* Is equivalent to taking 50 million vehicles off the road by 2030

* Adds $926 to vehicle cost

* Saves $3,000 over life of vehicle through better gas mileage

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BIG WHEEL: President Obama, exiting his less-than-10-mpg, gas-guzzling
limo yesterday, announced a strict new fuel-efficiency policy - but was mum on
whether he'll switch to an eco-friendly ride.  [AFP/Getty]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday

CEREAL KILLER BLUES - WHEAT $PIKE MEANS MORE DOUGH FOR PIZZA, BEER

BYLINE: PAUL THARP

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 506 words


A beer and a pizza could set you back as much as an extra 17 percent by Labor
Day - that's an extra $1 on its typical $6 tab, thanks to climate changes up
close.

The worldwide heat waves and droughts that have wilted grain fields from the
Midwest and Canada to Russia have triggered double-digit price spikes overnight
across the food chain, starting with wheat, the world's second-largest food
staple after rice.

The wheat price spike - to $8.68 a bushel this week, more than double its early
June price - is expected to hit supermarkets in the next few weeks and drive up
the price of wheat-related goods, like pizza, beer, bread and breakfast cereal.

Some industry sources estimate price hikes at the retail and wholesale levels of
between 2 percent and 4.5 percent in coming weeks.

"It's going to be up to the particular brands to determine how much they're
going to raise prices," said Paul Gatza, director of the Brewers Association,
representing artisan and craft brewers, which generally use more wheat and hops
than large commercial beer brands.

Wall Street reacted by dumping some of the food and beer stocks, including
Budweiser, Sara Lee, Molson Coors and Conagra.

The wholesale price soared 25 percent on Thursday alone due to Russia's harvest
crisis, with wildfires consuming its parched fields and ruining about a quarter
of its crop. Russia, the world's No. 4 wheat producer, halted all its exports,
sending markets into a panic for the past two days.

While prices settled a bit yesterday, to $7.55, they still remained 75 percent
higher than at the start of June - a month that ushered in a summer of record
heat waves on two continents.

"The wheat market cannot be defined . . . it is in a state of shock," said one
trader in the commodities exchange for Germany, the seventh-largest producer of
wheat.

Meanwhile, food producers braced for higher costs in cereals, baked goods and
booze made from wheat and barley. Beer brewers lamented that 40 percent of the
price of beer is in taxes, leaving little room to absorb soaring grain costs.

General Mills, Kellogg, Kraft Foods and Sara Lee may need to raise prices on
bread, crackers and cookies to protect their profit margins, said Morningstar
analyst Erin Swanson. Edward Jones analyst Jack Russo thinks food makers and
restaurants will have no choice but to raise prices.

General Mills and Kellogg both expect commodity costs to rise 4 percent to 5
percent this year, or about 20 percent more than they had forecast earlier,
which could hurt bottom lines.

Among stocks hurt by the wheat crisis: Budweiser, down 2.4 percent to $52.56;
Boston Beer, off 1.1 percent to $66.59; Molson Coors, 2.3 percent lower at
$45.68, and Sara Lee off 1.1 percent to $14.84. Food giant Conagra fell 2.2
percent to $22.21.

---

Grain pain

Wheat prices hit $8.68 a bushel - more than double the June low, which will
inflate the price of many consumer favorites, including:

Mug of beer: From $4 to $4.75

Pizza pie: From $ 14 to $ 15.40

Loaf of bread: From $3 to $3.90

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Group of people drinking beer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 24, 2010 Friday

LITTLE JOY FOR TOYS - BAD WEATHER COOLS DOWN HOLIDAY SALES

BYLINE: JAMES COVERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 365 words


The snow and rain falling in many areas of the country are not making the toy
business much fun.

After a strong start for the holidays, toy sales during the past crucial week
have been hurt by bouts of "intense snow, cold and rain," according to BMO
Capital Markets analyst Gerrick Johnson.

Accordingly, the toy industry analyst cut his forecast for holiday toy sales to
a 2.5 percent increase over last year. That's just a week after Johnson raised
his holiday forecast to 3 percent from his October projection of a razor-thin 1
percent gain.

"After observing strong store traffic and buying activity in November and the
first week in December, particularly at dedicated toy stores, we have seen a
slowing in the past two weeks," Johnson said in a research note yesterday. "This
late in the season, we doubt online sales will pick up much of the slack, as
shoppers may worry about packages arriving in time."

Johnson warned that shares of toy- and kid-related stocks could come under
pressure over the next month as optimism cools. While most toy companies will
likely beat Wall Street expectations for fourth-quarter profits, Johnson said
"the market may present more attractive entry point" for investors in the coming
weeks.

Shares of Mattel - which makes Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels cars - yesterday fell
35 cents, or 1.3 percent, to close at $25.88. Shares of arch rival Hasbro, maker
of Transformers and Tinkertoys, fell $1.10, or 2.2 percent, to $48.52.

Last month, parents scrambled to secure hot toys including Squinkies, Zoobles
and Dance Star Mickey. But following recent disruptions from the weather,
"supply appears to be catching up with demand," Johnson said.

In another downbeat sign for toy profits, Johnson said a survey of Wal-Mart
stores this month found no evidence to support reports that the giant discounter
had raised prices on toys. In fact, Wal-Mart's toy prices this week were down 2
percent from the previous week, according to BMO.

--

Climate change

Toy stocks are dropping on a report saying the severe early winter is keeping
some people from shopping.

Yesterday's decline

Hasbro -2.2%

Mattel -1.3%

Source: Gerrick Johnson, Bmo Capital Markets

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The GoGo My Walkin' Pup is one hot toy that's been hard to find in area
stores. [Dan Brinzac]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday

BAM'S ECONOMY-KILLER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 480 words


Political reaction yesterday to President Obama's prime-time Gulf oil spill
speech was surprisingly bipartisan: Democrats and Republicans alike thought the
address was a dud.

Especially when Obama veered from the spill and - in true Rahm Emanuel "never
let a crisis go to waste" style - began pitching his energy-regulation scheme.

Which essentially amounts to the discredited notion of cap-and-trade (though
Obama, at his pollster's urging, no longer uses the term, which more accurately
should be called cap-and-tax, anyway).

"If my house is on fire, I don't need the fire chief telling me that I shouldn't
have built the house out of wood," said Alabama's GOP Gov. Bob Riley.

Added Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat: "The climate bill isn't
going to stop the oil leak."

Nor is it even going to meet the nation's long-term energy needs.

But if cap-and-trade, which passed the House last summer by a razor-thin 219-212
margin, is enacted, it will depress the American economy. Big time.

In broad terms, under cap-and-trade, Washington would raise taxes on individual
companies, issuing carbon-emission credits, or caps, in return.

Companies would be free to sell unused credits - or, conversely, buy them.

Washington would then begin to ratchet down the number of credits - sharply
reducing allowable carbon-emission levels and dramatically driving up the cost
of those that are available.

This is not a prescription for a healthy economy, period - and it would kill in
the cradle any economic recovery that might be under way.

Nor would it have any impact on climate - good, bad or otherwise.

The world's leaders in carbon emission - particularly China, India and Russia -
laugh at the notion of cap-and-trade.

Bottom line?

Obama intends that America unilaterally immolate its economy by dramatically and
artificially inflating the price of energy in order to force the public to use
less of it.

This is what the president alluded to in Tuesday's speech when he said that
"there are costs associated with this transition" to so-called clean energy.

But he didn't cite any figures - and no surprise there.

His own Treasury Department - in a private analysis last fall that was made
public only thanks to a Freedom of Information Act request - concluded that
cap-and-trade would cost US taxpayers at least $200 billion a year.

That would cost the average household an extra $1,761 a year - equivalent to a
15 percent hike in personal income taxes.

And that's just for starters.

The only good news is that, with even his own party decrying Obama's lack of
leadership on the Gulf spill, his prospects of transforming that unhappiness
into Senate enthusiasm for cap-and-trade seem remote.

But he'll try, you can bet on that.

And he must be resisted.

For as economically damaging as the Gulf spill is going to be, cap-and-trade
would be infinitely worse.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday

TILTING AT WINDMILLS - DON OBAMA WANTS TO USE THE BP DISASTER FOR TAXES AND
SOLAR PANELS - BUT HUMAN ENTERPRISE WILL FI ND THE SOLUTION

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1110 words


We learned again in the president's speech on the BP disaster this week that all
of our interests in the energy sphere are aligned: Move from carbon-based fuel
to renewables and we'll create American jobs, heal the climate, put more
distance between us and geopolitically unstable regions and punish those nasty
oil companies while saving our shrimp and seagulls. Win-win-win-win-win.

Except the president's beloved (if doomed) cap-and-trade legislation would: do
little or nothing to alter global climate trends, reward oil companies like BP
that backed the bill from the start, destroy jobs by increasing the cost gap
with coal-powered China and India, introduce new environmental hazards like huge
windmills chopping up birds by the thousands and, as it raises the price of
domestic drilling, give the Middle East a lovely gift.

Demanding a government-led switch to renewable fuels, "The one approach I will
not accept is inaction," the president said, or huffed. "The one answer I will
not settle for is the idea that this challenge is somehow too big and too
difficult to meet. The same thing was said about our ability to harness the
science and technology to land a man safely on the surface of the moon."

This man-on-the-moon stuff is getting pretty tired. It's been 40 years. Haven't
"we" - by which, as usual, Obama means not the American people as a whole but
specifically the federal government - accomplished anything "we" are proud of
since 1969?

Moreover, that analogy could be stretched in any direction, couldn't it? I mean,
if we can put a man on the moon, surely we can operate a government without huge
deficits? If we can put a man on the moon, can't we get the IRS to speed up
those refund checks? If we can put a man on the moon, surely we can, um . . .
well, cap an oil pipe before the Gulf of Mexico looks like the fl oor of Jiffy
Lube.

What Obama fails to acknowledge (and, alarmingly, may not even comprehend) is
that regardless of whether he gets to sign yet another "landmark" bill, inaction
is not now and never will be an issue.

Technological challenges are indeed rarely "too big and too difficult to meet" -
but those problems are seldom fi xed from the top down, by decree. Solutions
come from the bottom up, by human ingenuity - innumerable tiny independent
decisions building on one another over time to create a better human society
just as a series of mutations over time produces a better human being.

Adam Smith meets Charles Darwin - and the two have a beautiful, everlasting love
affair in science writer Matt Ridley's new book "The Rational Optimist"
(Harper).

Ridley's dazzling, insightful and entertaining book on the unstoppable march of
innovation is a refresher course in human history that counteracts the magical
thinking of Democrats, who are using the BP spill the way they use other news
events - as a support for more central planning, in this case to reshape energy
usage.

"The Rational Optimist" shows how jarring Obama's cap-and-trade package of
energy solutions is when compared to how technology has advanced in the past.
Great ideas spring up unexpectedly from every direction, with each new one
naturally coordinating with others.

Consider how energy use has evolved in just the past 150 years. As technology
turned from wood to coal to oil to gas, the ratio of (dirty) carbon atoms to
(clean) hydrogen atoms used in fuel fell from 10 to one (wood) to one to one
(coal) to .5 to one (oil) to .25 to one (methane). "In 1800 carbon atoms did 90%
of combustion, but by 1935 it was 50:50 carbon and hydrogen and by 2100, 90% of
combustion may come from hydrogen - made with nuclear electricity, probably,"
Ridley writes. Nuclear technology has been leaping forward since we stopped
paying attention to it: It already produces "more power from a smaller
footprint, with fewer fatal accidents and less pollution than any other energy
technology." The radioactivity of nuclear waste plunges quickly over time.

Yet Obama wants . . . even more subsidies for windmills. Because wind is free,
right?

No. The cost of wind power has been stuck at three times the cost of coal power
for many years, Ridley writes. And windmills don't lack for environmental
consequences. Without fossil fuels, Ridley says his native Britain would feature
wind farms sprawling across 10% of the land, wildlife would be hit by the loss
of estuaries, "the entire country would look like a power station, pylons would
march across the uplands and convoys of trucks would cart timber along the
roads. Powering the world with such renewables now is the surest way to spoil
the environment."

Like many economists, Ridley argues that if you want to make fossil fuels refl
ect their true cost to the environment, you should simply tax carbon (and refund
the same amount elsewhere). Pols don't want to do that because they know that
the day they can plausibly be blamed for the price of gas shooting up is the day
they'll need to start looking for a new line of work.

Instead, Obama and Co. favor the elaborate costume ball of a "cap and trade"
system that would amount to a stealth tax that would raise the cost of
everything that involves fuel consumption. It would also benefit industrial
giants (BP and GE, among others, are lobbying for the bill).

Consider a recent crisis far more pressing than today's energy problem: Mass
famine, which appeared to be facing India in the mid-'60s as its population
exploded. When a scientist named Norman Borlaug invented a new wheat hybrid that
produced vastly greater yields and tried to take it to India, he faced jealousy
from local researchers, who deliberately tampered with his experimental plots;
overenthusiastic fumigation from customs officials that killed half his seeds;
lobbying from Indian state monopolies; and resistance from the Indian government
that wanted to protect its own agriculture industry (just as Obama vaguely
promises to ensure that solar panels get made in the US).

Despite all this government interference, Borlaug's ideas gradually became too
useful to be ignored. By 1974, India was a net exporter of wheat. "Since 1900,
the world has increased its population by 400%; its cropland area by 30%; its
average yields by 400% and its total crop harvest by 600%," Ridley writes.

"The future," he concludes, "will feature ideas that are barely glints in
engineers' eyes right now - devices in space to harness the solar wind, say, or
the rotational energy of the earth. How do I know? Because ingenuity is rampant
as never before in this massively networked world and the rate of innovation is
accelerating, through serendipitous searching, not deliberate planning."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama and Don Quixote. (Illustration by Darren Thompson)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday

ALAIN VS. NYC - HEY, DUCASSE! STOP DISSING OUR RESTAURANT SCENE

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 674 words


LUNCHING recently at Alain Ducasse's Benoit on West 55th Street, enjoying its
luscious salmon en croute and pate for just $19, I mentioned to my friend that
Ducasse - after 10 frustrating years in New York - had finally found his groove.

"It makes me forget about Mix," my companion said, referring to Ducasse's goofy
collaboration with Jeffrey Chodorow that collapsed like a soggy soufflé.

But the warm-and-fuzzies soon evaporated.

Last week, The Duke - long removed from the days he actually toiled in a kitchen
- proclaimed London "the most important city in the world for restaurants." He
told Britain's Telegraph that it "was [previously] level with New York, but the
product has developed more here [in London] in the past five years."

Oh, really? Some nerve, from a guy who travels so often attending to his global
empire, it's a wonder he knows where he is on a given day - much less what he
eats!

Ducasse also dissed Paris and Spain - the land that's merely produced the most
talked-about chefs and restaurants over the past decade - and didn't say a word
about Tokyo, Chicago or Hong Kong, any of which has a plausible claim to the
"restaurant capital" title.

Now, arguing over which city is best is fun, but as futile as arguing over
whether the 2010 Yankees could beat the 1927 squad. You can't put them on the
same field, and you can't fairly compare eating destinations unless you've tried
all 25,000-odd places that call a city the size of New York or London home.

But as the White Stripes had it, "Any man with a microphone can tell you what he
loves the most."

Thanks to his global renown, Ducasse has the mike anytime he opens his mouth.
But his pronouncements command a lot more attention overseas than in New York,
where names like Keller, Ripert, Chang, Batali, Boulud, White and Humm mean more
to the dining millions.

Ducasse's put-down of NYC sounds like payback for our failure to love him. He
admitted to New York magazine in January 2008 that the city had yet to embrace
him. His effort to win our hearts and palates sounded patronizing: He ate
everywhere trying to discern our tastes, even at McDonald's.

His conclusion: In New York, "everyone is so rushed, so stressed, you have to
give them easy pleasure."

He has another reason for sucking up to London at our expense. The Michelin
Guide just anointed his Dorchester Hotel venue - which had previously gotten by
on a mere two stars - with three. He'd love to see the place draw more genuine
locals in addition to the vagabonding sheiks and oligarchs who fill seats at his
priciest establishments.

Ducasse even feigned antagonizing Michelin by saying it doesn't sprinkle enough
stars on London: "You should interview the editor and ask him why," he said.
(Ducasse knows the anachronistic arbiters of Michelin would not likely punish
him if he accused them of abetting global terror.)

Ducasse's obsessions with fellow chef/entrepreneur Gordon Ramsay and with
Michelin, reflected in the Telegraph interview, betray how out of touch he
remains with New York, despite living here part-time, and despite his close
friendships with Boulud, Ripert and other French-born chefs more attuned to the
Gotham terroir.

To most New Yorkers, Ducasse, Ramsay and Michelin are the unholy trinity of
culinary irrelevance. Ramsay's place in the London/ NYC flopped so badly it was
recently taken over by the hotel, and Michelin's New York book is taken about as
seriously by locals as Playbill's dining-after-theshow listings.

But there's a way Ducasse can yet make us love him, and it has nothing to do
with flaunting Michelin stars. Almost stealthily, Benoit has become a truly
fine, local place. It seems busier than ever day and night, often filled with
people who couldn't care that it's Ducasse's - if they even know.

Exploit this, Alain. Let the town know it's yours. Hang out at the handsome
Decostyle bar. Show up in the dining room often enough to give customers a
thrill. They'll forget about Mix and the Essex House - and maybe even forgive
your newly Anglicized outlook.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday

LAMBS IN CHIC CLOTHING - THE FASHIONABLE WILL FLOCK TO THIS NEW EATERY FOR ITS
STYLE AND SUBSTANCE

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 676 words


THE LAMBS CLUB

[** ½] (Two and one-half stars)

130 W. 44th St. (Chatwal Hotel)

212-997-5262

'THIS is the best pork chop I've ever had," my friend, herself a restaurant
owner, said of the juicy, sage- and garlic oil-kissed Heritage cut at the new,
long-in-coming Lambs Club. I'll second at least the spirit of her judgment - one
reason I'll be returning to this wintry, winning room on my own dime.

Welcome to a dandy debut in the land of bright lights, nostalgically clubby and
cozy, where hits outnumber flops by 3-to-1. Its chef and sun god is Food Network
star Geoffrey Zakarian, who ran 1990s sensation '44' in the Royalton a block
east and launched "interpretive New York cuisine" Town in 2001 and French-ish
Country in 2006.

Conde Nast editors once made '44' their clubhouse. Zakaian yearns to recapture
its buzz. So far, the Lambs Club is a power-roominthe-making (or at least in the
hoping).

Its 80 seats are meant to fill with a critical mass of prime movers dense enough
from which to extract a seating hierarchy. This has yet to occur.

But Zakarian and executive chef Joel Dennis are serving exactly the kind of
suave, modern-American menu that belongs at the corporateshowbizmedia vortex of
today's Times Square.

Striking a smart middle ground between high-concept and clubsimple, it reflects
the need to serve many audiences from breakfast until midnight. (Beware $18
cocktails, but entrée prices mostly in the $20s are less than at popular Bond
45, nearby.) Preceded by years of hype and suspense, the Lambs crept in on
little cat feet in the pre-Labor Day somnolence. The hotel, delayed by red tape
and the financial crunch, is a loving restoration of the landmarked Stanford
White building that once housed the Lambs Club theatrical group.

Designer Thierry Despont drew a warm bath of red leather banquettes and chairs,
black-lacquered birch walls and white tablecloths, all new except for an
18th-century limestone fireplace.

Vintage photos of Lambs members and a slightly eerie blackandwhite mural of
long-departed faces evoke the theoretically golden past.

Dishes drenched in a warm, muted glow from chrome fixtures reflect Zakarian's
unforced way with global embellishments to frame and flatter main elements.

At lunch, he's been at the top of his game.

"Here are some octopuses," said the server, cheerfully introducing a baby
food-tender braised specimen aromatic with lemongrass broth, cilantro, and
smoked bacon and paprika. I've never had a lobster roll so good (and worth $32)
- the whole Maine creature poached, seasoned, finished with spicy mustard and
chives and tucked into a monster toasted baguette.

The $18 burger was a gamy, oozy grind of sirloin, chuck and brisket.

Pristine-tasting "crispy" ocean trout came gently foamed with ginger and kaffir
lime.

Evening meals were less consistent.

Even with adorable, crunchy baby artichokes, loup de mer sank into the town's
bottomless well of workaday branzino.

Yellowfin tuna carpaccio "nicoise-style," one of the few departures, was a mess,
with fish and Provencal elements splayed all over the plate like bad Paul
Liebrandt. A $26 foie gras terrine wanted a foil edgier than it got from a few
mission figs.

But toothsome ravioli packed with well-herbed, chili-sparked pork shoulder
presaged that marvelous pork chop, served with sinfully pan-fried, breaded
trotters.

Compelling lamb saddle packed a three-way punch of braised shank and roasted
loin and rack, the last crusted with toasted pinenuts and rosemary.

Elishia V. Richards' short dessert list rang the Broadway bells - especially
light-on-thetongue honey pistachio cake. More!

Yet, there's reason to worry. Zakarian is going to be busy opening a larger new
place, The National, next month. And Zakarian and his wife, Margaret, share
ownership of the Lambs with three club kings. Let's hope they stay friends:

Squabbling partners have let grand hotel eateries turn to steakhouses.

For now, though, the place grows stronger by the week. With a little more
concentration, the Lambs can grow into the lion it wants to be.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Food Network star Geoffrey Zakarian's lobster roll (inset, left) is
worth the $32. [Allison Joyce; Joe Kohen (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 17, 2010 Wednesday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE: Lukas I. Alpert, Wire Services

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 241 words


If it's too risqué for Vegas, it's got to be good.

A jiggle joint has relocated its "stripper mobile" to Tampa, Fla., after it was
banned from the roads in Las Vegas for being too distracting.

The vehicle is a large truck with Plexiglas sides housing a dancer and stripper
pole. It drives around advertising the Déjà Vu gentleman's club.

*

This is the kind of thing that makes you wish the airline just lost your bag.

Passengers aboard a Delta flight from Puerto Rico to Denver were shocked to find
their bags had been drenched in jet fuel somewhere in transit.

The airline advised them to take their bags home, wash anything that could be
salvaged, and file a reimbursement claim for the rest of their things.

*

Our Lord is a hip, modern - and green - Lord.

Bishops with the Church of England are encouraging people to give up their iPods
for Lent, rather than forsake traditional vices like chocolate or meat.

The idea is to save energy, "to help those suffering from the effects of climate
change," said James Jones, Bishop of Liverpool.

*

Back to work!

A South African janitor who had what everyone thought was a winning $12 million
lottery ticket was told it was a mistake after officials discovered he had
picked his winning numbers for the following week's jackpot.

Unfortunately, the man had gone to the press before checking with lottery
officials, and now all his impoverished relatives are flocking to him for
handouts.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday

PREZ WIELDS SLUDGE HAMMER - VOWS PLAN TO END OIL SPILL AND MAKE 'RECKLESS' BP
PAY

BYLINE: S.A. MILLER Post Correspondent

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 867 words


WASHINGTON - In a prime-time speech last night from the Oval Office, a
determined and smooth-talking President Obama promised to make BP pay for its
"recklessness" as he reassured the nation that he's the man with a plan to fix
the Gulf oil-spill disaster.

"Make no mistake: We will fight this spill with everything we've got for as long
it takes. We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused. And we
will do whatever's necessary to help the Gulf Coast and its people recover from
this tragedy," Obama said.

"Beyond compensating the people of the Gulf in the short term, it's also clear
we need a long-term plan to restore the unique beauty and bounty of this region
. . . I make that commitment tonight," the president said in the televised
address, his first from behind his desk in the White House.

Trying to boost his sagging approval ratings and turn around the majority of
voters who don't like the way he's handling the environmental crisis, Obama also
used the high-stakes address to turn the oil spill into a rallying cry for
Congress to pass stalled climate-change legislation.

"Now is the moment for this generation to embark on a national mission to
unleash American innovation and seize control of our own destiny," Obama said
after returning from a two-day visit to four Gulf states to assess the damage
and the cleanup effort.

He insisted he was open to suggestions from both sides of the aisle on reducing
carbon emissions, "but the one approach I will not accept is inaction."

The president sought to convince a skeptical nation that he was taking command
of an emergency that has spun out of control for eight weeks to the day.

He noted there had been only limited success so far in plugging the leak, but
said that within weeks, 90 percent of the gushing oil should be captured.

In his remarks - in which he spoke calmly and showed no anger - Obama vowed to:

* Make BP put enough money into an independently administered escrow account to
pay damage claims from Gulf Coast businesses and residents.

* Oversee a costly longer-term restoration of the Gulf's ecology and bring back
the region's prized seafood industry.

* Create new regulations for stricter drilling safety and more robust
spill-response plans.

The tough talk set the tone for Obama's meeting today at the White House with BP
Chief Executive Tony Hayward and the usually low-profile chairman, Carl-Henric
Svanberg.

"Tomorrow, I will meet with the chairman of BP and inform him that he is to set
aside whatever resources are required to compensate the workers and business
owners who have been harmed as a result of his company's recklessness," Obama
said.

Hayward also faces a grilling tomorrow by the House Energy Committee. It will be
his first go-around before Congress, and he will encounter pointed questions
about the company's cost-cutting moves leading up to the deadly April 20
explosion that sank the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, sparking the leak.

Obama told the nation that the oil spill was a "painful and powerful reminder"
of America's flawed energy policy.

"Each of us has a part to play in a new future that will benefit all of us. As
we recover from this recession, the transition to clean energy has the potential
to grow our economy and create millions of jobs - but only if we accelerate that
transition," Obama said.

"Only if we seize the moment. And only if we rally together and act as one
nation - workers and entrepreneurs; scientists and citizens; the public and
private sectors."

Obama said the ruptured oil well spewing crude at the bottom of the Gulf of
Mexico had "tested the limits of human technology."

But he insisted that from the first day, top government scientist have been
working on it.

"As a result of these efforts, we have directed BP to mobilize additional
equipment and technology. In the coming days and weeks, these efforts should
capture up to 90 percent of the oil leaking out of the well," Obama said.

"This is until the company finishes drilling a relief well later in the summer
that is expected to stop the leak completely."

Earlier yesterday, Obama tapped former Justice Department Inspector General and
Iran-Contra investigator Michael Bromwich to head the Minerals Management
Service, which oversees offshore drilling.

But up to now, Americans haven't been impressed by Obama's command of the
crisis.

A majority of Americans - 53 percent - rate Obama's handling of the spill as
"poor" or "very poor."

And 73 percent of both Democrats and Republicans complain the Obama hasn't been
tough enough on BP, a Gallup Poll released yesterday showed.

Meanwhile, a team of US scientists significantly upped its estimate of how much
oil is gushing into the Gulf, saying it's as much as 60,000 gallons per day -
20,000 gallons more than their last best guess.

That means enough oil has spilled into Gulf waters in the last eight weeks to
have filled Obama's Oval Office from floor to ceiling more than 600 times.

----

"Make no mistake: We will fight this spill with everything we've got for as long
it takes. We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused."  -
President Obama, speaking from the Oval Office last night

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Barack Obama. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 18, 2010 Friday

BEHIND THE LEFT'S BAM-BASH

BYLINE: Bill O'Reilly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 480 words


HELL has frozen over! The far-left in America is turning on their guy Barack
Obama. After his speech on the oil disaster a few days ago, the crazy-left Greek
chorus on MSNBC hammered the president. He wasn't specific enough, he was too
weak, I don't sense "executive command," they wailed.

You would have thought they were talking about President Bush. In fact, many of
the anti-Obama criticisms echoed the Hurricane Katrina invective directed toward
Bush in 2005.

Usually, the far-left covers for its folks, provides them excuse after excuse
for their failures. But this time, generally speaking, conservatives have been
more generous toward Obama's oil-spill predicament than liberals. Fair-minded
people understand that nobody on the planet knows how to plug that gushing
broken pipe.

As far as reacting slowly, Obama is guilty -  but how many times do you slam the
man for allowing BP to dictate the initial play when the oil rig collapsed? Yes,
it was foolish. But Monday-morning quarterbacking doesn't really get us anywhere
once that has been established.

So, there has to be something more in play -  and there is. Far-left policy in
America is largely a coordinated effort. The point place is the Huffington Post,
which has replaced MoveOn as the driving force for radical-left propaganda.
People like John Podesta, George Soros, Arianna Huffington and lesser-known
leftists discuss policy agenda among themselves and then send it out to their
willing accomplices in the media.

One is Cynthia Tucker, who writes for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. After
hearing Obama's speech, Tucker opined: "He didn't use the moment to assert a
resolute sense of command. Nor did he use it to call on Americans to make the
sacrifices that will be necessary to make the transition from petroleum to
cleaner fuels."

Ah-ha! So, it's not really about the oil spill. It's about global warming!
Apparently, some on the far-left believe Obama is not doing his job as a warming
warrior. Therein lies the genesis of the disenchantment.

The global-warming crew is furious that Obama expanded ocean drilling a few
months ago, and they are crazed that the cap-and-trade bill is stalled in
Congress. Along with expanded entitlements for the poor, combating global
warming has become a fanatical issue for those who graze in pastures owned by
George Soros.

If you listened to the president's speech, it wasn't horrendous. He put forth
the case that he's doing everything he can and will hold BP accountable for the
clean-up and for compensating Americans who are getting hurt. You may disagree
with the president, but the speech certainly wasn't a disaster.

Therefore, the hysteria displayed by far-left commentators is totally
out-of-proportion until you factor in the climate-change angst. Very simply, his
once devoted supporters are now giving Obama the cold shoulder over global
warming.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Soros: Cuckoo over "climate change."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday

I'M VICTIM OF 'PERVERT' AL - COPS REOPEN '06 MASSAGE-GAL CASE

BYLINE: DOUG AUER

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 555 words


The masseuse who accused Al Gore of getting touchy-feely during a rubdown in an
Oregon hotel room four years ago slammed the former vice president as "a pervert
and sexual predator," as Portland police announced yesterday they are re-opening
their investigation of the case.

"He's not what people think he is. He's a sick man," Molly Hagerty told the
National Enquirer in its latest issue. "I did not want him to get away with it
and do this to another woman.

"I felt lucky that I didn't get raped . . . He turned from Mr. New Age into a
pervert."

Hagerty, 54, a licensed therapist for 15 years, was excited when she learned
that she would be giving a $540 massage to the former veep in the swank Hotel
Lucia on Oct. 23, 2006, the article says.

Gore, 62, in town to speak on climate change, was registered under the name "Mr.
Stone" in a ninth-floor suite.

He allegedly tried to turn up the heat during the massage session - dimming the
lights and playing "Dear Mr. President" by singer Pink - and then began pawing
at Hagerty.

"I was half out the door . . . and [Gore's] grabbing, groping my breasts and he
said, 'You know you want it,' " she claimed.

The Nobel Peace Prize winner "grabbed me in a big bear hug," planting kisses and
"mauling my breasts with his huge hands," she told the mag.

"The scariest part of all was that he refused to take no for an answer," Hagerty
said. "The more I resisted, the more turned on he'd become."

She said she managed to escape, but the alleged incident left her with
post-traumatic stress disorder, a damaged knee and a cardiac rhythmic disorder.

"I'm still frightened, but I know I'm doing the right thing by speaking out,"
she said.

Gore was never arrested or charged in the case.

Hagerty went to police right after the alleged incident but she canceled
appointments with detectives. She was interviewed in January 2009, but cops said
there wasn't enough evidence to support her claims.

Hagerty took the pants she was wearing that night, which she said were stained,
for DNA analysis. The testing results were inconclusive.

Portland cops wouldn't say what led them to renew their probe.

A spokeswoman for environmentalist Gore "unequivocally and emphatically" denied
the allegations.

"Further investigation into this matter will only benefit Mr. Gore," she said.

Hagerty, who reportedly shopped her sordid story around for $1 million, also
held onto a Ghirardelli candy-bar wrapper that she said Gore stuffed into her
purse. She claims the vice president's fingerprints are all over it.

Hours after she met Gore, a tearful Hagerty frantically called pal Greg Boatman.

"When I picked up, she was in tears," the friend said. "She told me that she was
assaulted . . . Mr. Gore groped her and threw her down on the bed.

"I was shocked and believed her right away. Molly's never lied to me - she's one
of the most honest people I've ever met."

On June 1, Gore and his wife, Tipper, announced they were splitting after 40
years of marriage. Tipper has previously complained about her husband's penchant
for massage therapists.

---

"I was half out the door . . . and [Al Gore's] grabbing, groping my breasts and
he said, 'You know you want it."

"He refused to take no for an answer. The more I resisted the more turned on
he'd become."

- Massage therapist Molly Hagerty

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACCUSED: Al Gore was in Portland, Ore., to speak on climate change in
'06 when Molly Hagerty says he attacked her.  [Pacific Coast News]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 15, 2010 Monday

FASHION IS DEAD IN NEW YORK - HERE'S THE PROOF!

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1121 words


SOMEWHERE, Coco Chanel is fist-bumping Liberace.

It's Fashion Week. And the enormous tent at Bry ant Park is crammed, elbow to
navel to kneecap, with oppressively tall girls feeling fat in size zero,
visually impaired boys in plaid and chartreuse, and hyperventilating Z-list
actors willing to brave clogged Port-a-Potties to get next to Anna Wintour. And
those are the waiters. The crowd, you don't want to know.

Curiosity and an empty closet brought me to the park's first - and last - days
of fashion. Next year, the invitation-only tent that has graced this space for
18 spring and fall seasons, bringing haute couture to a city that now welcomes
JCPenney and Kmart, is moving on up to Lincoln Center. There, presumably, Muffie
is eager to plunk down 20 grand for a prom dress.

But I would venture fashion moved out of this city, where paying retail is a sin
and factories bail to China as fast as you can say "Max Azria," a long time ago.
Most busy women I know shop online, or zip into Banana Republic at lunch.

That didn't stop the Fashion Creatures, an underemployed bunch heavy with
refugees from every reality show gracing the high numbers on your cable dial.
These pass for celebs.

Walking to the park, my eyes were assaulted by a man in a too-large bowler hat,
plaid pants and Elvis Costello glasses. I was about to direct him to the Big
Apple Circus. Or the homeless shelter. Then he said he had some connection to
the reality show "Lose My Lunch." Or maybe "Launch My Line."

"I'm just a dandy," he said, as serious as a size-14 model.

Another man was resplendent in a full-length, pure-white, PETA-defying fur coat.
Sable?

"Raccoon," he said. "It's kind of like in the long-hair family," said the
stylist for the seminal "Real Housewives of Atlanta."

To say Fashion Week has jumped the shark is an insult to aquatic animals. Let's
just say that many designers have fled the tent, leaving geeks you wouldn't sit
next to in high school partying like it's 1993.

The shows. Right. There are three tiers of human at every fashion show. First,
The Celebs.

"Oh, my God!" squealed a pretty girl, who looked 14, as a tall blonde sailed
into the show ahead of the crowd. "That's Whitney Port!" I asked stupidly, "Is
she a designer?" The girl looked at me as if I'd grown additional heads. "No,
she's in a reality show - on MTV!"

Next are Ticket Holders. That would include me. Possession of an actual ticket -
scrawled in pen, in this age of metal detectors and DNA samples - lets you stand
on the short line.

Then, there are The Dregs. These losers wait, for hours, hoping for a seat to
pop up at a show selling clothes they'll never afford.

I'm here to see the Fall 2011 collection of Ports 1961, which deals in safe
get-ups in colors like "licorice" and "pepper." (Black and white, imbecile.)
Protein-deprived models in teased, Bride of Frankenstein hair flounced down the
catwalk as I resisted the urge to dig out a sandwich. Ports' cunning "cherry"
dress, I learned, retails for nearly $600. Not bad. I made a mental note to
visit the Gap.

If I learned anything at Fashion Week, it's two priceless secrets to penetrating
the sanctum of the VIP lounge. No. 1: Walk in. No. 2: Sit down.

"Oh, my God!" screeched a voice. "There's that judge from . . . " Please, make
it stop!

Several glasses of Moet and foie gras appetizers later - up yours, PETA! - I
started to miss Bryant Park.

Fashion ain't what it used to be. Was it ever?

BALDWIN'S UNHINGED

Message to Alec Baldwin: Your daughter may look like an adult and act like an
adult, but she is 14. A child.

What's your excuse?

The actor would have you believe that young Ireland Baldwin has, yet again,
turned Daddy Dearest into a fuming, threatening, bloviating creature. Last week,
the lead performers in the Baldwin family circus got into a red-hot argument on
the phone, prompting Baldwin, allegedly, to tell the fruit of his loins, "I'm
tired of this. I'm going to take some pills. I'm going to end this."

Whatever happened to, "Go to your room?"

A panicked Ireland dialed 911. Dragged from his Central Park West apartment to
Lenox Hill Hospital, Baldwin was deemed a drama queen, not suicidal. Now Ireland
is to be scarred forever by her depraved dad's theatrics, including the night in
2007 when he threatened and called the then-11-year-old a "thoughtless little
pig."

Once again, Baldwin blames not himself, but ex-wife Kim Basinger, telling pals
she wanted to embarrass him in advance of his Oscar-hosting duties by persuading
Ireland to call 911. Not a thought as to what the barrage of curses aimed at the
mother of his child would do to the kid.

Baldwin doesn't need the Oscars. He needs his head examined. And a restraining
order.

JUST WALK LIKE A MAN, HIRAM

I FEAR a bulldozer won't be enough to dislodge Hiram Monserrate from office. The
state senator from Queens, convicted of manhandling his girlfriend, was shamed,
convicted, and bounced by an overwhelming majority of his peers, who believe
that, even at the Albany clown college, a man who commits domestic violence
gives his fellows a bad name. But he shall not be moved.

Monserrate, who astonishingly compares himself to murdered civil-rights workers,
has engaged lawyer Norman Siegel, a man who never saw a laughable discrimination
struggle he couldn't exploit, to fight for his job. Rather than step aside like
a man, Hiram won't clean out his office until he's dragged out like a child.

This is the caliber of your elected officials.

PRESIDENTS DAY HAS LOST ITS LUSTER

HAPPY Presidents Day.

Did you know that the over-commercialized festival of white sales, school
closings, bank shutdowns and government idleness started as a day to honor our
first president, George Washington? Then Abe Lincoln was added to the mix.

But instead of evoking an opportunity to meditate on the richness of American
culture, Presidents Day has devolved into an extended weekend in which
nongovernment working parents scramble to find a place to park the kids, ski
resorts are handed another excuse to overcharge, and public servants get yet
another day off to play.

Our Founding Fathers would be appalled.

'CLIMATE' CREDIBILITY COOLING OFF

THE forecast for planet Earth this winter calls for an extra dose of rain, snow,
sleet, ice and pestilence. But according to confounded warmingologists, this
actually proves Al Gore right! Throw away that shovel and buy a bikini. Those
who pray at the altar of global cooking once said unusual heat was a sign of
climate change. Now, warming cultists hold up ice and snow and freezing rain as
proof-positive that, any day now, we'll be living all year in a Miami August.

Until they make up their minds, I'm hanging on to my snow boots.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Model. [Demis Maryannakis/Splash News]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday

MEET THE HAIR PAIR! - THE POST'S RAAKHEE MIRCHANDANI GIVES NFL STAR EXTRA POINTS
ON HOW TO TREAT HIS TRESSES

BYLINE: RAAKHEE MIRCHANDANI

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 500 words


DEAR Troy, I'm not much of a football fan. My style tends to be a little more
snakeskin (preferably of the Jimmy Choo variety) than pigskin, but I've followed
your career closely ever since I first spotted your tight, corkscrew curls
bouncing up and down underneath your Steelers helmet.

See, we're hair twins. (Throw in Slash and Howard Stern, and we've got
quadruplets.) The resemblance is uncanny. But with the same sexy spirals - the
boys really dig them, huh? - comes the same tragic tress stress. Dry ends? Got
'em. Mid-summer frizz fest? It happens to the best of us. Trouble wearing hats?
Tell me about it!

I've heard it takes you an hour to fix your 'do. And you've been using Head &
Shoulders since you were a kid? (You look great in the ads, btw.)

Troy, what I'm going to tell you is going to change your life: Ditch the
drugstore brand and follow me to Sephora.

I know, I know, Procter & Gamble just paid $1 million to have your locks
insured, but what you need is a potent regimen of a good leave-in conditioner,
some Ouidad "Climate Control" gel ($22), Living Proof shampoo, conditioner and
hairspray ($10 to $24) and 15 minutes with the FHI 1900 turbo hair dryer ($195
at fhiheat.com) and diffuser, and you'll be money, honey. A Shu Uemura
deep-conditioning treatment every month at Sally Hershberger downtown wouldn't
hurt either. (And tell them I sent you.) In an e-mail to me, you said, "I can't
believe my hair is worth that," about the Lloyd's of London insurance policy
that puts a hefty price tag on your head.

"It started off as being lazy in college and during my scruffy phase in
college," you wrote. "I didn't really care what I looked like or my personal
hygiene at that moment. I guess this lack of personal hygiene has done some good
for me."

But we're worth it, Troy. And if we play our cards right, we'll be saying just
that in a L'Oreal commercial in no time.

And one more word of advice: Never cop to lack of good personal hygiene. It's
certainly not the most attractive quality and, let's face it, we're too pretty
to admit to things like that.

E-mail if you have any other questions, hair or otherwise
(rmirchandani@nypost.com); I mean, we're practically family.

xoxo, rm

---

* Kiehl's "Superbly Smoothing Argan" shampoo ($18) and conditioner ($19, both
available at kiehls.com) uses the naturally potent smoothing and softening
properties of argan oil.

* Ouidad's "Climate Control" gel works in the most humid conditions; the
detangler comb (each $22 at sephora.com) is perfect for working in conditioner
while in the shower. Plus it'll solve your annoying frizz problem, Troy.

* Ten minutes in the shower with this mask ($30 at neimanmarcus.com) from
Frederic Fekkai's new "Essential Shea" line will keep hair happy and hydrated -
and smelling good, too.

* The FHI 1900 Nano Weight Pro hair dryer ($195 at fhiheat.com) with a diffuser
gets my hair dry in less than 15 minutes and will work wonders for you when
you're late to a game because your hair is still wet.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -The Head & Shoulders spokesman's locks are insured for $1 million. [AP
Photo] -Pittsburgh Steeler Troy Polamalu has met his hair match: The Post's
Raakhee Mirchandani. [Gene J. Puskar/AP; Caitlin Thorne Hersey] -The Head &
Shoulders spokesman's locks are insured for $1 million. [AP Photo]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 3, 2010 Sunday

TRENDS FOR '10 - ISSUES AND ELECTIONS FACING NEW YORK AND THE NATION IN THE NEW
YEAR

BYLINE: David M. Drucker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2623 words


WHO THE VOTERS ARE

The results of the 2010 US Census (questionnaires will be mailed in March) will
not only determine the shape of the House of Representatives in 2012 - it will
tell us what the cultural, ethnic, social, economic and demographic make-up of
the United States of America will look like for years to come. Peter Francese is
a demographic analyst who has been forecasting decennial census trends for the
past 40 years. Here are the biggest shifts he predicts will be shown by 2010
Census:

*  There will be 70 million grandparents in America by 2010, compared to 47
million in 1990. The recession, which has hit younger workers hardest, has
resulted in more multi-generational living arrangements, with those 55 and over
having the most disposable income and economic growth.

*  The rise of women. Francese predicts that women will comprise more than half
the US work force by mid-2010. This is due in part to the recession; sectors
dominated by women (education and health care) were not as hard-hit as those
dominated by men (construction, manufacturing).  Also: More women graduated
college than men for the fi rst time ever in 2009.

*  Our polyglot population. At 200 million, white non-Hispanics remain the
majority in the US. But Hispanics are the fastestgrowing minority in the
country, and by 2060, Francese predicts we will be a "minority-majority nation."

*  The flight from the Northeast and Midwest. Again, this is largely due to the
recession. These two regions have been bleeding jobs, while the South and the
West have seen an increase in job creation. "The migration pattern is truly
breathtaking," says Francese, who adds that it's not just due to immigration:
Taxes are lower, the cost of manufacturing is cheaper, and there is less
unionization in these regions. He predicts the fi rst two states to bounce back
economically will be Texas (which has seen the greatest increase in residents
from 2008-09) and Florida; states with older populations will take longer. New
York, by the way, is tied with three other states as the 16th oldest in the
nation.  -  Maureen Callahan

ENEMIES, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC

The usual suspects will still be in the security-threat line-up in 2010.
Afghanistan and Pakistan will worsen; Iran will speed up its pursuit of nukes;
terrorists and dictators will continue to double down on an American president
they perceive as weak; and China will intensify its subversion of our economy.

But 2010 also may be a year of ugly security surprises. As we tie our troops
down in ever-larger numbers in Afghanistan, al Qaeda's spreading deep into
Yemen, Somalia and the Muslim-Christian faultline states of Africa. Our enemies
have the initiative.

In the Middle East, Dubai's bankruptcy could expose hundreds of billions in bad
loans and bogus investments throughout the Gulf region, creating havoc. Our
pseudoallies, the Saudis, have been drawn into combat in Yemen again, where
government control is disintegrating. The blow-back could strike the world's key
oil producer just as its neighbors go broke. (On the positive side, Islamists of
different stripes are now killing each other.)

To the east, the crucial problem with Pakistan may not be internal strife, but
the government's continued support of terrorism aimed at India. The potential
for a nuclear exchange dwarfs the Iranian threat.

Meanwhile, big trouble looms closer to home. The intensifying narco-insurgency
against the Mexican government threatens our citizens, directly and indirectly,
every day. The catastrophic situation in northern Mexico - not Islamist
terrorism - is the leading threat to US security.

A short flight south, Venezuela's Hugo Chavez is spoiling for a fi ght. With his
economic policies a shambles, Chavez supports provocative violence against
neighboring Colombia. Chavez funds, equips and provides sanctuaries for brutal
Colombian guerrillas - and he wouldn't mind a war to divert Venezuelans from the
mess he's made.

Hop back on the southbound plane and you reach Argentina, where the hard-left
Kirchner family regime may move to subvert democracy's remains, provoking a
violent reaction (the Obama administration would back the Kirchners against the
Argentine middle class).

Elsewhere, the pressure's building on corrupt or failed regimes, from Nigeria
through Central Africa to Southeast Asia. Even "stable" Europe faces severe
economic crises from Greece and Spain to the Baltic states. At best, 2010 will
be a year of emergencies.

Which security-related threat worries me the most? It's right here, in
Washington. Even as it pretends away Islamist and narco-terror threats, the
Obama administration is preparing the gravest assault on our democratic system
since the Civil War: 2010 will see sweeping amnesty proposals for illegal
immigrants - with the goal of creating an unbreakable Democratic Party majority
built on a criminal Lumpenproletariat (and yes, illegal aliens are criminals -
that's what "illegal" means).

In terms of threatening our freedom, system of government and way of life, the
Obama administration may make al Qaeda look like amateurs in 2010. - Ralph
Peters, Post Opinion columnist and the author of "The War After Armageddon."

NEW YORK, OFF TO THE RACES

Get ready, New York voters, for the greatest high stakes political rollercoaster
ride in decades this year.

Every statewide offi ce and all 212 seats in the Legislature are up in November
but, more importantly, the direction of the nearly bankrupt state will be up for
grabs as well.

At no time since liberal Republican big-spender Gov. Nelson Rockefeller's four
terms of offi ce came to an end in 1974 (fi nished for the last few months by
Lt. Gov. Malcolm Wilson) has the Empire State's electorate been as ready for
change as it is today.

Polls show an overwhelming number of voters believe New York is failing on every
front - from the economy, to the tax burden, to the quality of life, to
government ethics.

The most important contest will be for governor, and the big question is whether
Gov. Paterson can beat back a certain Democratic primary challenge from Attorney
General Andrew Cuomo, the most popular politician in the state.

Key Democrats privately give Paterson, who took offi ce in March 2008 in the
wake of Eliot Spitzer's resignation, little chance of surviving and many predict
that, notwithstanding his insistence to the contrary, he'll bow out in the end.

Republican prospects for governor against Cuomo are grim, with former Long
Island Congressman Rick Lazio, who was defeated by Hillary Rodham Clinton in the
2000 race for US Senate, and Erie County Executive Chris Collins, a businessman
turned politician, vying for the nomination, with Lazio the early front-runner.

Some impressive new talent may come to the fore in the race to succeed Cuomo as
attorney general.

Potential Democratic candidates include Nassau County District Attorney Kathleen
Rice, Assemblymen Michael Gianaris of Queens and Richard Brodsky of Westchester,
Sen. Eric Schneiderman of Manhattan, former Nassau Executive Thomas Suozzi,
former state Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo, and Paterson criminal
justice coordinator Denise O'Donnell.

The winner will likely face Republican Staten Island DA Daniel Donovan Jr.

State Comptroller Tom DiNapoli, appointed to his job in 2007, remains weak in
the polls and could face a Democratic primary challenge from failed mayoral
contender and former City Comptroller William Thompson and a tough general
election bid from Republican John Faso, who almost beat Hevesi in 2002.

US Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, the former Albany-area one-term congresswoman
appointed to her job by Paterson and who, by every measure - name recognition,
job approval rating, widespread criticism - is vulnerable, could face an uphill
battle.

But so far no serious Democratic primary challenger or GOP opponent has emerged.
Meanwhile, the GOP may not even challenge the reelection of Sen. Charles
Schumer. - Frederic U. Dicker, State Editor

CITY OF EMPTY POCKETS

It'll be a rough ride for New York City.

Mayor Bloomberg has been dropping hints that while the economy may have bottomed
out, residents here face signifi cant service cuts as the city struggles with
multi-billiondollar defi cits.

On Jan. 28, the mayor will be releasing his preliminary budget for fi scal 2011
and he'll have to decide which voting blocs to infuriate to close a $4.1 billion
budget gap.

"There'll probably be a lot of people on the steps of City Hall protesting the
mayor," Bloomberg predicted last week. "I've learned how to live with that."

Whatever the mayor proposes will ultimately have to be approved by the City
Council, a place that's going to become mighty interesting in 2010. In each of
the last eight years, the mayor could generally count on the council to do his
bidding. Think term limits and congestion pricing.

But the council has taken a tilt to the left and the recent vote killing a
retail mall in Kingsbridge Armory, leaving the square-block building empty for
the foreseeable future, proves it's prepared to take the most radical action to
block the mayor's development priorities.

In just about five months, Bloomberg will get to test the council's resolve
again when he presents a trimmed-down budget for its approval. He'll also get to
test the resolve of municipal unions, who've gotten used to generous raises
without substantive givebacks. That's not going to play in the 2010 economy.

Of course, the biggest question of the year is: what does Bloomberg have up his
sleeve? The mayor is a big-picture guy, open to fresh ideas and always looking
for a new way to create some buzz. During the election campaign, he declared the
need for "new blood" to invigorate the administration.

Since then, Bloomberg's last three appointments have been a 40-year veteran of
the FDNY to head that agency and two City Hall aides to run the environmental
protection and technology agencies. So was he just sprinkling pre-Election Day
fairy dust or has he got other ways of innovating at a time of fi scal
constraint, which was the reason he got elected to a third term in the fi rst
place?  - David Seifman, City Hall Bureau Chief

DEVELOPMENT BACK ON TRACK?

Some parts of New York feel like they're in a deep, post-apocalyptic funk -
vacant storefronts, potholed streets, broken sidewalks, stalled construction
sites, garbagestrewn blocks, untended graffiti. Our boom-and-bust city has
pulled out of worse before and surely can do so again. But we need government to
push hard on its end - supplying infrastructure in now-fallow neighborhoods and
moving forward important projects that have been mired in bureaucracy and
strife.

Of these the most important to the city's future is Moynihan Station, the
ambitious attempt to convert the old Farley Post Office on Eighth Avenue, across
from Madison Square Garden, into a glorious new Penn Station. Seemingly moribund
since the winter of 2008, Moynihan is back on track now, in part because
Amtrak's new chief, former state transportation commissioner Joseph Boardman,
agreed to relocate his agency to the new train hall so long as Amtrak could
share in future retail revenues. That deal was just struck in December, so that
Amtrak is now at last onboard.

In a neighboring but unrelated move, the City Council approved the West Side
rail yards rezoning, which will allow the mixed-use development of 13 yards,
directly south of Moynihan Station, with commercial and apartment buildings. The
redevelopment of the long-fallow, rail-yard-dominated West Side will start in
2010.

Across the East River in Long Island City, Queens, the Economic Development
Corporation will begin on-site infrastructure for the Hunters Point South
development, which will build 5,000 housing units on 30 acres of prime
waterfront. The site is magnifi cent, but like most of the city's old industrial
sites, is bereft of the basics - sewage, roads, parks. To judge just how quickly
and effectively good parks can transform an area, New Yorkers can look to the
Brooklyn Bridge Park that, after much contention, will open in 2010. - Julia
Vitullo-Martin, director of the Center for Urban Innovation at the Regional Plan
Association.

FAILING THE MIDTERMS

After a heavy year of legislating, Congress' main focus in 2010 will be one
thing - the Nov. 2 midterm elections.

As the New Year begins, President Obama and Democratic leaders in the House and
Senate have yet to complete their increasingly unpopular effort to enact major
health care reform legislation. But with the possibility of a bill being signed
into law as soon as late January, Congress and the White House are poised to
turn their attention to politics.

Of course, the Capitol Hill machine will not shut down.

The Obama administration is pushing the Senate to act on climate change
legislation (the House passed its bill last summer); congressional leaders are
working on fi nancial regulatory reform; a push to overhaul the nation's
immigration system, which died prematurely during the Bush administration, could
be revived; and lawmakers likely will move to address domestic security concerns
in the wake of a foiled Christmas Day terrorist attack.

But the House and Senate - with an eye toward the midterm elections - are likely
to spend most of their time in Washington tackling jobs and the economy.

Democrats, as the party in control of both houses of Congress and the White
House, stand to suffer the heaviest losses on Nov. 2 if the 10% unemployment
rate is not markedly lower come Labor Day. The Republicans appear unlikely at
this point to win the 40 seats necessary to take back the House. But analysts
are not ruling it out. In the Senate, the GOP has a big hill to climb, although
their prospects for gaining several seats and reacquiring the ability to sustain
a fi libuster are no longer out of the question.

Usually, the party that does not control the White House has a good midterm
Election Day. When combined with current polls that show Obama's approval rating
just below 50% and a drop in satisfaction with congressional Democrats,
Republicans could be in for their fi rst successful national election since
2004.

Regardless of who stands to benefi t when the American people head to the polls
this fall, one thing is certain: Members of Congress from both political parties
are unlikely to engage in serious legislating once the summer sets in, as
Democrats and Republicans look to get out of town so that they can spend their
time at home campaigning to keep their jobs. - David M. Drucker, staff writer,
Roll Call

Five big seats that could switch

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.). Reid remains unpopular at home, and
has been consistently outpolled by potential Republican challengers. The GOP
nominee will be chosen on June 8.

New Mexico 2. Rep. Harry Teague (D) is facing a challenge from former Rep. Steve
Pearce (R), who vacated southern New Mexico's 2nd district in 2008 for what
turned out to be an unsuccessful Senate bid. Now Pearce wants his old job back.

Kansas 3. Several Republicans are vying for the GOP nomination in eastern
Kansas' 3rd district, which has historically leaned Republican. Rep. Dennis
Moore (D) is retiring.

Sen. Chris Dodd (DConn.). Dodd is perhaps the most vulnerable of the incumbent
Democratic senators. His GOP challenger will be chosen in August.

Mississippi 1. Rep. Travis Childers (D) won northern Mississippi's
overwhelmingly conservative 1st district in a special election in early 2008,
when the GOP was down and out. The Republicans are high on state Sen. Alan
Nunnelee's chances of taking it back.

CURRENT MAKEUP

HOUSE Democrats: 257 Republicans: 178

SENATE Democrats: 58 Republicans: 40 Independent: 2 (both caucus with Democrats)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama on the telephone. (Ramey Photo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

LOSS THROWS REST OF PRESIDENT'S AGENDA INTO DOUBT

BYLINE: Maggie Haberman

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 213 words


The White House insisted yesterday it wants to stick to a broad and diverse
long-term agenda - but President Obama's aides signaled that many tough-to-pass
items are going to fall by the wayside for now in the new Capitol Hill climate.

The economy and financial regulatory reform are taking center stage now, White
House press secretary Robert Gibbs suggested yesterday.

And measures like "card check," the controversial union-backed provision
allowing labor groups to form through card-signing instead of secret ballot,
seemed to be on life support.

"Clearly, financial reform is going to take and play a bigger role in what
happens legislatively in the next several months, ensuring that we have honest
rules of the road going forward," Gibbs said.

As for health care, he said it was a front-and-center issue before Scott Brown
sent shock waves through national politics with his upset win in Massachusetts,
and remains one.

Other Obama items that had been part of his sweeping agenda - and which now are
in doubt - include cap-and-trade legislation aimed at curbing emissions of
greenhouse gases, and new immigration laws.

Cap-and-trade - a version of which passed the House last year - has been
controversial, with critics saying it's essentially a new tax on consumers.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 24, 2010 Sunday

ONE TOQUE OVER THE LINE; HOW A DARING CHEF GOT 86'D FOR STARTING A FOOD FIGHT AT
THE FOUR SEASONS

BYLINE: CARLA SPARTOS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 941 words


Henry Kissinger just wants his crab cakes, darn it!

When executive chef Fabio Trabocchi abruptly departed the Four Seasons this
month after just three months on the job, it was the talk of New York's
restaurant world.

Why had the highly regarded chef -  who earned three stars from the Times and
one from Michelin while at Fiamma, a 2009 casualty of the financial meltdown -
parted ways with the fabled Midtown powerhouse after barely one season?

Chalk it up to taste. On the one hand, Trabocchi's "sashimi" of ahi tuna,
Kumamoto oysters and sorrel sauce. On the other, the dishes that the East 52nd
Street landmark has served since opening in 1959.

"There were issues with [some longtime] customers," says one restaurant insider.
"They complained that the food was not the same. They want grilled fish, steamed
vegetables -  hospital food."

Brought in to add buzz to the menu and return the restaurant to its former
three-star status, Trabocchi may have done too much too soon. While the famous
crab cakes were never taken off the menu, classic dishes jockeyed for space with
newfangled additions like spaghetti with sea urchin or crab and spicy chilis,
much to the dismay of regulars.

"There are customers who have been coming in every day for 30 years -  they
spend thousands of dollars a week -  they name their own salad or steak. It's
hard to break that," says the source.

At the Four Seasons, if a regular wants endive and tomatoes out of season, the
kitchen runs out to fetch them. It is this sort of high-touch service that has
made the landmark a destination for New York's rich and powerful for more than
50 years.

"These people expect good food, but they want their crab cake, they want their
salad and their billi bi [creamy mussel soup] -  they're not looking for
eccentric or imaginative food," says guidebook magnate and Four Seasons regular
Tim Zagat.

While Trabocchi made a good impression at his audition, with a non-stop parade
of haute dishes, the honeymoon didn't last long with owners Julian Niccolini and
Alex Von Bidder. "There was always some complaint that an older person would
[say] -  too salty, too small, too much, I don't get it," says the restaurant
insider.

Meanwhile, a corporate source says the owners were horrified to learn that the
kitchen was using lard -  again pointing to a possible generation divide. Pork
fat is a fashionable ingredient with modern-day foodies but would likely shock
regulars accustomed to the restaurant's longtime emphasis on light, healthy
fare.

Food costs may have also been an issue. Trabocchi has always been expensive -
according to a source from his days at DC's critically acclaimed Maestro, he ran
the restaurant like it was in spare-no-expense Las Vegas -  but he did get
results. Recent reports from those who've dined at the Four Seasons have been
overwhelmingly positive but in the end, finances may have trumped stars.

"The Four Seasons wasn't ready for a chef like Fabio," says a longtime industry
professional. "As the changes started happening, it didn't become a positive. It
became a negative. Fabio tried and they tried. Unfortunately, at the end of the
day, it didn't work out. It's sad."

Or perhaps management remembered the disastrous tenure of chef Anne Rosenzweig
at '21,' who in 1987 was given carte blanche to change the menu and dared add a
pat of green butter to the center of the house hamburger.

In a year when iconic restaurants like the Rainbow Room and Tavern on the Green
closed, there's a chill among New York's old guard.

Going "Iron Chef" on the dishes is particularly risky for the Four Seasons.

Legendary restaurateur Joseph Baum opened the dazzlingly modernist restaurant
with a then-revolutionary premise -  it would serve a seasonal menu with an
American, rather than French, focus.

The gorgeous multimillion-dollar setting designed by Philip Johnson and Mies van
der Rohe features soaring walnut-paneled walls, world-class works of art, and
Eero Saarinen furniture.

From the start, it attracted an illustrious crowd. In 1962, John F. Kennedy
celebrated his 45th-birthday dinner there. By the 1970s, the restaurant's Grill
Room became the setting for New York's original "power lunch."

And at last year's 50th anniversary party, a glittering cast of characters -
Ralph Lauren, Henry Kissinger, Barry Diller -  packed into the Pool Room to
swill champagne. On any given lunch hour, you can still glimpse everyone from
politicians to TV stars at the next table.

Both Trabocchi and the Four Seasons maintain that the split was "amicable" and
due to "philosophical differences."

Whether the split was actually the result of clashing egos, a generation gap,
freewheeling spending, the vagaries of running a high-volume restaurant or
internal strife with the unionized kitchen staff is unclear - though all have
been floated by various parties as potential reasons for the split.

But an online comment dated from Dec. 30 on a little-known food blog Docsconz,
written by Niccolini's daughter, Keiko, may have best expressed the
philosophical divide: "It is a restaurant with a soul of its own, not a new
place seeking an image or identity. If Mr. Trabocchi intends to bring a
revolutionary climate to a restaurant and is seeking a great stage to promote
himself, it should be at a restaurant that he owns himself. The Four Seasons has
thrived as New York's arbiter of taste for the last 50 years."

So what will the next chapter of the Four Seasons bring?

"I guess they will go back to the Four Seasons being the Four Seasons," says the
industry insider. "Simple food, excellent clientele, elegant room -  and that's
it."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT OF THE KITCHEN! Tradition-minded owners Julian Niccolini and Alex
Von Bidder (above) opposed the inventive cuisine of in-and-out chef Fabio
Trabocchi (right). (Christian Johnston; Elion Paz) SEATS OF POWER:Since opening
in 1959, the Four Seasons on East 52nd Street has catered to the rich and
powerful, like Senators Ted and Bobby Kennedy in 1964, and Martha Stewart and
Henry Kissinger in 2001.  (Marion Curtis; Helayne Seidman; AP) OUT OF THE
KITCHEN! Tradition-minded owners Julian Niccolini and Alex Von Bidder (above)
opposed the inventive cuisine of in-and-out chef Fabio Trabocchi (right).
(Christian Johnston; Elion Paz)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday

SORRY TIGER'S TAIL BETWEEN HIS LEGS - * 'I'M ONLY PERSON TO BLAME' IN SCANDAL
*ELIN A NO-SHOW AS TV DRAMA GRIPS WORLD

BYLINE: AMBER SUTHERLAND in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., and DAN MANGAN in New York

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 779 words


The world came to a grinding halt yesterday to gape at Tiger Woods'
extraordinary mea culpa - as the golf superstar sheepishly apologized to his
scorned wife, fans and sponsors for a sensational string of affairs while giving
no indication when he would return to the game he used to dominate.

"I was unfaithful. I had affairs. I cheated," said a somber Woods. "What I did
is not acceptable, and I am the only person to blame."

The mega-star's wife, Elin Nordegren, was noticeably absent for the 131/2-minute
discourse, which literally caused trading to halt on financial markets and
captivated a global audience of millions as he spoke publicly for the first time
since his pathological infidelity was exposed in November.

"Trading was already quiet, but when Tiger came on, everybody was looking at the
TV screens," Peter Adams, a livestock trader at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
told Reuters. "They were mocking him. Only rich guys go to therapy for sex
addiction. Everybody else gets hit in the head with a frying pan."

Dressed in gray slacks, an over-starched blue shirt and blue blazer, Woods - who
refused to take questions - was grim as he spoke to a handpicked group at PGA
Headquarters in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., just after 11 a.m. The audience
included his mom, Kultida, PGA Tour executives, friends, employees and select
reporters.

He used the word "I" and its variations nearly 115 times in his speech and
referenced several of the traditional 12 steps of rehab, including acceptance of
his problems and acknowledging the pain he caused those around him.

"Every one of you has good reason to be critical of me. I want to say to each of
you, simply and directly, I am deeply sorry for my irresponsible and selfish
behavior I engaged in," he said.

That behavior was a staggering string of affairs with porn stars, prostitutes, a
pancake-house hostess and other pretty young things that came to light after the
National Enquirer ran a bombshell story in November about his assignations with
New York party girl Rachel Uchitel.

The reports drew the prompt attention of Woods' wife, who confronted him over
the Thanksgiving holiday in an argument that ended with him crashing his SUV
right outside their Windermere, Fla., home.

Woods did not identify any of his paramours by name yesterday and refused to
give any other details, saying those issues and the question of "whether Elin
and I will remain together" were off-limits.

"Every one of these questions and answers is a matter between Elin and me," said
Tiger.

But Woods sternly denied reports that Elin, the mother of his two young kids,
struck him and then chased him from the house with a 9-iron right before he
crashed the SUV.

"Elin never hit me that night or any other night," he said. "Elin has shown
enormous grace and poise throughout this ordeal."

Tiger also roared at the media for sending photographers to take pictures of his
mother, as well as his wife dropping their daughter, Sam, off at school.

But, he added, "I recognize I brought this on myself, and I know above all I am
the one who needs to change."

Woods said he had sampled the delights of many women, even though "I knew my
actions were wrong," because "I convinced myself that the normal rules didn't
apply."

"I felt that I had worked hard my entire life and deserved to enjoy all the
temptations around me . . . Thanks to money and fame, I didn't have to go far to
find them," he said. "I was wrong. I was foolish. I don't get to play by
different rules."

Woods said that he was returning to his childhood religion of Buddhism, which
"teaches that a craving of things outside ourselves causes an unhappy and
pointless search for security," and that he remains in sex-addict treatment.

"For 45 days from the end of December to early February, I was in inpatient
therapy receiving guidance for the issues I'm facing. I have a long way to go,"
Woods said. "Starting tomorrow, I will leave for more treatment and therapy."

But he said he also planned, for now, to stay away from competitive golf while
he works on restoring the balance between "my spiritual life" and "my
professional life."

"I do plan to return to golf one day, I just don't know when that day will be. I
don't rule out that it will be this year," said Woods, who had been widely
expected yesterday to announce that he would play in a PGA tournament next
month.

Woods - who hadn't smiled during his entire speech - then broke into a warm grin
as he walked away from the podium and into the welcoming arms of his weeping
mom, who was sitting in the front row.

"I'm so proud to be his mother," Kultida said later. "He will start getting
better."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GETTING A GRIP: A grim-faced Tiger Woods apologizes yesterday for his
cheating and "selfish" ways, which he vowed to change. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday

BLAKE QUAKE! HOW THE HOTTEST 'GOSSIP GIRL' BECAME NYC'S SEXIEST STYLE ICON

BYLINE: RAAKHEE MIRCHANDANI

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1052 words


FROM TRAVELING PANTS to practically no pants - Blake Lively has learned to
accessorize naturally. As in, with the assets she was born with - boobs and
gams. The actress has come along way since she made her debut in the the 2005
film version of the best-selling young adult novels, "The Sisterhood of the
Travelling Pants."

These days, she takes things a bit further (or higher, really, if we're talking
hemlines) as Upper East Side fashionista-about-town Serena van der Woodsen on
"Gossip Girl." In the role, she gallivants around town showing off her long legs
(she's 5-foot-10) in barely-there skirts and sky-high Louboutins, and perfectly
perky breasts in deep-plunging necklines.

When posing on red carpets in real life, though, she also sports skimpy shorts,
bustiers and high heels. Blake Lively, 23, is a classic case of life imitating
art. Her sexy, all-American figure and blond hair are the kind of features Katy
Perry lyrics are hinged on. (Lively, a "California Gurl" herself, was born in
LA, the daughter of two actors and the youngest of five siblings.) She didn't
always know how to work it, though.

"When I first met her, she didn't know about fashion," says "Gossip Girl"
costume designer Eric Daman, calling The Post from the Saks shoe department
where he's shopping for Lively's character, choosing between Louboutin boots and
suede Fendi pumps. "She was more Forever 21 than Chanel."

But after four seasons of being schooled in the art of chic, Lively has picked
up some tips and tricks from her character and Daman, who now likens her to a
modern-day Grace Kelly.

"It's been great helping her understand brands and being a part of her growth,"
says Daman. "She really has a passion and obsession for it and it's amazing that
she's that girl from the Valley who's turning into this CoutureWeek-in-Paris,
Hanging-Out-With-GallianoGirl."

He's not the only famous friend she's hanging out with. Lively, who appears in
Ben Affleck's "The Town" next week, not to mention as Ryan Reynolds' love
interest in "Green Lantern," out next year, counts designer Karl Lagerfeld, shoe
star Christian Louboutin and Vogue editor-inchief Anna Wintour as pals. In fact,
the twosome sat front and center together at Lincoln Center this week.

"I think Anna Wintour is a big supporter because [Lively] is a good
representative for her demographic," says Daman, who adds that Lively doesn't
have a personal stylist. "Her biggest vice is expensive shoes and staying home
and baking brownies - not running around town without panties or being arrested
for having too much 'gum' in her purse. She's a breath of fresh air in that way.
She has an amazing body and isn't some skinny little waif and Anna realizes
that."

This past June marked Lively's fourth time in Wintour's Vogue since 2008, and
after appearing on the September covers of Interview and British Marie Claire, a
case can be made for passing Hollywood's couture crown from Sarah Jessica Parker
to Lively.

"She's got beautiful skin, an amazing head of hair and a great fi gure," says
designer Michael Kors, who took the actress to the Council of Fashion Designers
of America Awards last year. "Even if she wears a plunging neckline it never
turns in to anything sleazy. She's all-American sexy. She's Christie Brinkley.
And Brinkley in a plunging dress would never be cheesy."

Designer Anna Sui, who based her capsule collection for Target on the characters
of "Gossip Girl," is also impressed with Lively's style progression. She calls
the actress' look "polished with a touch of vamp," and thinks girls are
initially attracted to the character, but end up following Lively's life in the
tabloids.

"When I was recently in China, I met girls who were totally obsessed with
'Gossip Girl,'" she says. "They wanted me to tell them about the Upper East Side
and Williamsburg! I think the show is very infl uential on how girls like to
dress today, all over the world."

It's global style domination, one C-cup at a time.

JUNE 15     Making an understated entrance to the CFDA Awards at Alice Tully
Hall with Michael Kors, Blake wears a bright pink dress from the designer
(similar styles for $1,895) with Christian Louboutin "Very Prive" pumps ($795).

DEC. 17   Blake wears a Dolce & Gabbana dress ($2,595) and Christian Louboutin
"Pigalle Strass" heels ($3,135) to the New York premiere of "Sherlock Holmes."
At the premiere of "Where the Wild Things Are," Blake wears a feathered dress by
Marchesa ($6,600) and Christian Louboutin "Feticha" pumps ($725).

SEPT. 20   Blake wears a red-hot Versace dress (similar styles available for
$7,765) and Christian Louboutin "Very Prive" pumps) at the 61st Primetime Emmy
Awards.

JAN. 8 To keep warm on a chilly NYC day, Blake wears J. Brand jeans ($216), a
Burberry Prorsum shearling coat ($3,595), Vera Wang boots ($425) and carries a
Mulberry "Piccadilly" bag ($1,450).

NOV. 15 At a screening of her film "The Private Lives of Pippa Lee," Blake wears
a low-cut Marchesa jacket (similar styles for $5,940), mini Marchesa shorts and
white pumps (similar styles by Cole Haan for $298).

MAY 3 Blake aims high (above the thigh!) in a Marchesa dress ($5,940) and
Christian Louboutin "Lili Marlene" shoes ($2,995) at this year's Costume
Institute Gala.

JULY 5    Leaving the Ritz Hotel in Paris, Blake steps out with designer Karl
Lagerfeld in a Chanel jacket from the Paris Shanghai collection worth $35,535! A
few days later, she sat with Vogue editrix Anna Wintour in the front row of the
Christian Dior couture show wearing a headpiece by Johanna Braitbart, and an
"Alice Tulip" dress by Dior ($2,500).

SEPT. 7    At the start of this year's Fashion Week for "Fashion's Night Out:
The Show," Lively wears a Marchesa dress (price available upon request) with
Christian Louboutin "Bibi" heels ($795).

AUGUST 12 Shopping 'til she drops for Tiffany & Co. $220 aviators, Blake wears a
T-Bags dress ($234) and hauls a Khirma Eliazov bag ($1,395).

JULY 15   Sticking with tradition, Blake fl aunts her best assets while fi lming
scenes for "Gossip Girl" in New York in an animalprint Jenny Packham Collection
dress ($6,500).

JULY 28   Blake wears a Chanel dress with Christian Louboutin "Bianca Sling"
shoes ($755) to support fellow "Gossip Girl" co-star Chace Crawford at the
Cinema Society screening of his film "Twelve."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (SARA JAYE WEISS/STARTRAKSPHOTO JASON MERRITT/GETTY DAVE
ALLOCCA/STARPIX(3) GERALDINA AMAYA/FRANK ROSS FASHION CREDITS BY EMILY
FINKBINDER FAME PICTURES BAUER GRIFFIN JOSE PEREZ/SPLASH NEWS BILL
DAVILLA/STARTRAKSPHOTO HALEY MEVORACH/STARTRAKSPHOTO PETER KRAMES/AP AMANDA
SCHWAB/STARPIX)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 2, 2010 Saturday

BUBBA'S BOUNTY - CLINTON RELEASES LIST OF DEEP-POCKET DONORS

BYLINE: JENNIFER FERMINO

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 622 words


Bill Clinton yesterday released a list of all donors who have given to his
private foundation since his wife was made secretary of state - a crew of
deep-pocketed benefactors that includes Elton John, foreign countries and
soft-drink giant Coca-Cola.

Noticeably absent from the list of 2009 donors to the William J. Clinton
Foundation are several Middle Eastern nations such as Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and
Qatar, whose previous donations totaling tens of millions of dollars raised
concerns about a possible conflict of interest with Hillary Clinton as secretary
of state.

Under an agreement reached with President Obama, the former president agreed to
disclose his donors and the White House has the right to review whether there
are potential conflicts with his wife's work.

Norway was cited in the 2009 list for contributing between $10 million and $25
million since the foundation's beginning, while Oman gave $1 million to $5
million in the same time period. Clinton's foundation, which focuses on issues
such as health care, climate change and economic development, did not disclose
how much each donor gave in the past year, instead revealing just a range of
money that's been donated since the foundation was established over a decade
ago.

Bill and Melinda Gates - longtime top donors to the charity - continued their
largesse last year, as did Clinton pal Frank Giustra, a Canadian mining tycoon.
Their relationship raised eyebrows in 2005 when Giustra flew to Kazakhstan with
the ex-prez, met with the country's leader, and was then awarded a lucrative
contract to mine uranium there.

Clinton has said publicly that he did nothing to help his pal land the contract.

Gates, Giustra and UNITAID, an international aid organization controlled largely
by France that also donated in 2009, have each donated more than $25 million
through the years, making them some of the foundation's most generous
benefactors.

Other high-profile donations came from the Elton John AIDS Foundation, which
gave between $5 million and $10 million, as well as Donald Trump, and Saudi
businessman Nasser Al-Rashid, who gave at least $1 million. Coca-Cola, which
voluntarily agreed to stop serving soft drinks in schools in a deal brokered in
part by Clinton's foundation, has chipped in between $1 million and $5 million
since the foundation began.

The Michael R. Bloomberg Foundation pitched in between $500,000 and $1 million.

One surprising foundation benefactor is Christopher Ruddy, a conservative
journalist who once published speculation there was a coverup in the death of
Clinton White House counsel Vincent Foster. Ruddy, who has said he now considers
the former president a friend, donated more than $100,000.

Disgraced Democratic fundraiser Hassan Nemazee is also on the list for giving
$50,000 to $100,000. Last August, he was accused of scamming $74 million in
loans from Citibank. Many Democratic politicians have pledged to return money
from Nemazee, but it is not clear if this cash was returned.

The disclosure of the 2009 donors is the second time Clinton's foundation
released a list of where they get their money.

The ex-president initially resisted ever releasing the identities of his
benefactors, but caved under pressure when his wife was nominated for secretary
of state.

----

Friends of Bill

Among Clinton Foundation's 2009 donors:

* Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, over $25M.

* Canadian mining tycoon Frank Giustra, over $25M.

* Elton John AIDS Foundation, $5 to $10M.

* Michael R. Bloomberg Foundation, between $500,000 to $1M.

* Donald Trump, $50,000-$100,000.

* Saudi businessman Nasser Al-Rashid, at least $1M.

* The Coca-Cola Co., $1 to $5M.

* Oman, $1 to $5M.

* PGA Tour Inc., $50,000 to $100,000.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Donald Trump. -HELLO, GOLDENBRICK ROAD: Bill Clinton with Elton John,
who gave at least $5 million to the ex-prez's foundation. [WireImage] -Donald
Trump.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday

HECK OF A JOB, BROWNIE!

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 494 words


Think maybe the voters of Massachusetts caught President Obama's attention
yesterday?

Think maybe he'll pay attention?

The message couldn't possibly have been more clear: Voters in the bluest of
states turned to no-name Republican state Sen. Scott Brown to fill the shoes of
their beloved Democrat, Ted Kennedy.

There went the Democrats' filibuster-proof lock on the Senate.

There went any reasonable presumption that Obama policies on health care, the
economy and national security enjoy enough support to sway skittish
congressional Democrats in an election year.

And there went the notion that Obama himself can muster the political horsepower
to significantly influence politics and policy in the same nation that swept him
into office just 14 months ago.

Polls had state Attorney General Martha Coakley up 20 points over Brown scarcely
a month ago.

Yes, US politics have become so volatile of late that sweeping projections about
last night's returns probably shouldn't be made quite yet.

Still, this is the fifth time in three months that Obama has focused his star
power to effect political and policy outcomes - losing each time.

It didn't work in Virginia and New Jersey, where he roller-skated in for
Democratic gubernatorial candidates Creigh Deeds and Jon Corzine last November.

Or in Copenhagen, when he popped in to tout Chicago as host for the 2016
Olympics.

Or in Copenhagen again, last month, at the global climate-change conference.

And now this.

Obama needs to get better at anticipating outcomes. Each time he commits his
personal prestige - and that of his office - and then loses, he diminishes both.

So far, he merely looks foolish.

But this is going to have serious negative consequences soon.

Coakley, for sure, bears great responsibility for her loss: She barely
campaigned, taking time off to vacation and suggesting, at one point, that
standing in the cold shaking hands with voters outside Fenway Park was beneath
her.

She took the seat as a given.

But then, who can blame her? In Massachusetts, Democrats view Senate seats as
entitlements.

And, of course, her campaign was riddled with damning gaffes: At a critical
point, a Coakley ad misspelled the name her own state. She denied the presence
of terrorists in Afghanistan.

She even called famed former Boston pitcher Curt Schilling a Yankees fan.

Meanwhile, independents troubled by America's course under Obama & Co. - the
stagnant economy, the health-care debacle, massive government spending, weak
national security - may have seen a chance to shift direction: Brown vowed to be
the 41st GOP senator, ending the Democrats' ability to beat filibusters and pass
bills.

He clearly pressed the right buttons: He vowed to block ObamaCare, which a broad
swath of Bay State voters oppose. And he opposed Team Obama's decision to offer
civilian trials to terrorists.

He won. Coakley lost.

But, obviously, so did Obama.

Here's hoping the president understands why.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

DEVELOPING STORY - THE OUTLOOK FOR DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN - AND BEYOND - IS BRIGHT,
SAYS PROPERTY OWNER AND DEVELOPER ALBERT LABOZ

BYLINE: Max Gross

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 1265 words


IF you've been following downtown Brooklyn and its real estate comings and
goings, you know that there has been a lot of activity over the last few months
with new apartment buildings opening up and thousands of people moving to the
area.

The big question now is: What will happen with the hundreds of thousands of
square feet of retail that's up for grabs?

We asked Albert Laboz, principal at United American Land, and one of the biggest
property owners on Fulton Street in Brooklyn (as well as the developer of Soho
Mews) what was on the horizon for downtown Brooklyn, and beyond.

Q  You've been very active in the Fulton Mall Improvement Association. So,
what's coming? We've heard H&M mentioned, and a couple of other outfits.
Anything you can tell us specifically?

A  The national retailers have finally taken notice that Brooklyn, with its
population of 2.5 million people, is the most underserved 'city' from a retail
standpoint in the country. They have also taken notice that the Fulton Street
Mall, with 100,000 daily pedestrians, is the premier shopping destination in
Brooklyn.

I have heard credible rumors that the following retailers are actively looking
at or are negotiating leases for locations on the Street: TJ Maxx, Best Buy,
Kohl's, Sephora, Target, Aeropostale, Unique Thrift and Planet Fitness.

Q  What about 505 Fulton Street? Last I heard, it was 594,000 square feet with a
big retail component on the first two levels and luxury condos above. Is that
still the plan?

A  The 594,000-square-foot site that was previously reported is actually more
than that and it is located north of the block of 505 Fulton Street on
Willoughby Street. We have entered into a joint venture with a real estate
investment trust (REIT) for the site to build a mixed use building with
residential rentals and retail.

As for 505 Fulton Street, the former Martin's Department Store is a gorgeous
landmark building that will be restored to its former glory, comprising 250,000
square feet of new retail and luxury residential rentals. We received permission
from the NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission to expand the first, second and
concourse levels to the adjacent lots to create 130,000 square feet of new
retail, 30,000 square feet of which will be occupied by H&M.

The balance of the upper floors will be developed into TriBeCa-style luxury loft
rentals. We are looking for exciting, fresh retailers that will complement H&M.
The retail phase of the project is scheduled to be completed in the middle of
next year.

Q  What were the biggest changes that you saw over the last year in downtown
Brooklyn?

A  The demographic shift is towards young, highly educated people that have
chosen to reside in downtown Brooklyn over Manhattan due to its value, proximity
to Manhattan and the general desire to be part of an exciting new neighborhood.
Given that downtown Brooklyn has become a tourist destination, coupled with the
expansion of the hotel market, we are seeing more tourists than ever before on
the Fulton Street Mall.

On the physical level, the Fulton Street Mall is in the middle of a $15 million
renovation of the streetscape, which includes new sidewalk furniture, lighting,
plantings and sidewalks, culminating in a five-acre pedestrian park at Albee
Square, which will be our version of Herald Square.

Q  What about the larger commercial real estate climate in general?

A  On the retail level, we are starting to see some retailers coming out of
their 15-month long recessioninduced hibernation. They are gingerly looking at
new, prime locations at favorable rents. We are also seeing new international
retailers coming to the Soho market, looking at prime sites. We are cautiously
optimistic that other retailers will soon follow.

On the acquisition side, in the middle market - $5 to $50 million properties -
there is a tremendous disconnect between the bid and ask prices between buyers
and sellers, hence the dearth of transactions.

Buyers rightfully feel that given the scarcity of credit, their cash is more
valuable. Sellers, unless feeling financial pain, feel that this is not the
market in which to sell and prefer to hold cashflowing properties until the
credit markets open up.

It seems that the smart money is waiting for the banks to reach their day of
reckoning, when they will start to unload their troubled real estate assets.

But, hey, the slow pace of the market enables me to spend more quality time with
my family, which is the silver lining.

Q  Let's switch gears a little to Manhattan. One of your projects is Soho Mews,
and a lot of attention was put into the design of the place. Is there still a
place for this in the market, or is Soho Mews the last of its kind?

A  Soho Mews, designed by the late, great Charles Gwathmey, is a project that we
are very proud of, both on the design and execution level. Now that the market
is starting to recover, we are seeing a strong increase in customer traffic and,
as such, people are starting to appreciate the quality of our design and
execution.

Given the recovering state of the market, the high cost of construction and land
acquisition, coupled with the non-existence of construction financing, there
will not be another project like Soho Mews for a long time, perhaps a
generation.

Since there will not be any more 'starchitect'-type buildings for a long while,
I sincerely believe that purchasing a condo at Soho Mews is akin to acquiring a
piece of great art that will always appreciate in value.

Once the current inventory of existing, highdesigned condo units in the city are
absorbed, there are none to follow in the pipeline, so it stands to reason that
the existing units will appreciate significantly.

Q  How is Soho Mews selling?

A  Things have picked up dramatically. We have sold six units in the last six
weeks [out of 68] plus two contracts are being negotiated. We have just
initiated a seller financing program that should be very well received by the
market.

It's no secret that Soho Mews, like almost every other new development in the
city, has experienced a rash of frivolous legal actions by purchasers in
contract who refused to close due to the drop in the market. All six actions
that were decided by the Attorney General's office were decided in our favor.

We have readjusted our pricing to meet the market, dropping 12 to 15 percent. We
have closed on or are in contract with almost 50 percent of the units, at an
average price of $1,935 per square foot.

The new pricing has garnered a lot of momentum in sales, and we feel that the
seller financing program will turbocharge it even further. Once we surpass 50
percent in sales, we think our sales will take off.

Q  Anything you can tell us about what's going into the commercial space there?

A  We had many inquiries from very high end, creditworthy restaurants. After
careful thought, we felt that our condo owners would not like to live above a
restaurant, no matter how high end it might be. We are currently negotiating
with a high-end furniture company for one of the three retail units.

Q  You got your start when you converted the Lowe's Pitkin Theater in East New
York into retail 26-years ago.  Is there any space around the city that you've
seen recently that would make you sit up and say, "Wow, I'd love to convert
that!"?

A  I believe that there will be many opportunities of failed development sites,
sold by the banks. However, a dream conversion would be the Met Life Tower in
Madison Square Park. It is a majestic, iconic building that will make a
compelling development, if purchased at the right price.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Albert Laboz, in front of his Soho Mews development, is also standing
behind Brooklyn's downtown. ( Christian Johnston)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

THE REPUBLICANS' SECRET WEAPON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 153 words


GOPers celebrating Tuesday's Bay State Blowout got more good news Thursday:
President Obama is going to Las Vegas next month to stump for Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid.

Should Reid start packing?

Think about it: Obama raced to Massachusetts to shore up Democrat Martha
Coakley's bid for Ted Kennedy's seat.

As the world knows, unheard-of Republican Scott Brown beat her handily in
Tuesday's election.

The prez parachuted into Virginia and New Jersey last year to back Dems for
governor of those states. Both lost.

He even jetted off to Copenhagen - twice: once to snag the 2016 Olympics for
Chicago and again to lock up a deal on climate change. Yep: 0-2.

A trend? Well, Las Vegas is a gambling town. How many points will the bookies
lop off Reid's odds now? (He's already trailing one GOP challenger by 12 points
in the polls and another by 14.)

One thing's for sure: Republicans may soon owe Obama - big time.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 3, 2010 Wednesday

96 TEARS - NIT FACES DEATH IF NCAA EXPANDS MARCH MADNESS

BYLINE: LENN ROBBINS

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 364 words


The National Invitation Tournament, the nation's oldest college basketball
tourney, is about to be phased out, and the NCAA's Big Dance could turn into a
96-team mosh pit, several sources told The Post.

The NCAA has been in high-level meetings for several weeks with officials at
CBS, which currently owns the television rights to March Madness, and ESPN,
which is likely to outbid CBS for the tournament rights.

Barring an 11th-hour snag, the post-season NIT will be done away with and the
NIT Season Tip-Off Tournament, both of which are played in the Garden, will
leave the city.

The NIT Tip-Off will become known as the "First Four" tournament and will be
played in the same venue that hosts the Final Four the following spring.

In order to offset the costs of what will be a multibillion deal, the Big Dance
will expand from 65 to 96 teams for the 2011 tournament. The NCAA is poised to
opt out of its $6 billion, 11-year TV deal with CBS which runs through 2013.

The post-season NIT will be a casualty, several sources said.

Greg Sheehan, senior vice president of basketball and business for the NCAA, did
not immediately return a call from The Post. Joel Fisher, senior VP of
properties for the Garden, also did not return a call.

If the NCAA goes ahead with the changes, this year's postseason NIT will be the
final one.

The NIT was founded in 1938. St. John's has won it six times. Penn State won it
last year.

When the financial climate went south more than a year ago, it seemed unlikely
that the NCAA would void the final three years of its agreement with CBS, which
brings the governing body of intercollegiate sports a guaranteed $545 million
annually. But the thinking has changed as some feel the worst is over.

ESPN, with platforms such as ESPN2, ESPNU and ESPN 360, along with ABC and Fox,
was outbid by CBS in the last deal. But ESPN offers more platforms to offer
coverage, which would be key in a 96-team tournament.

Most college basketball coaches have spoken out against expansion, although
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim has been in favor. March Madness has become a golden
television property, which, like the Super Bowl, has become a part of America
sports culture.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 22, 2010 Monday

SPRING PREENING

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 850 words


As New York's Fashion Week passes the baton to runway shows in Europe, it's time
to check out what the best of the fashion glossies have to offer.

Funny lady Tina Fey is always entertaining, and Vogue lucked out with a big
blow-out article on the "30 Rock" star. We like that the mag keeps her focused
on her life through fashion, such as how awful she looked in the early days of
writing for SNL, and how Jimmy Fallon is partly to thank for why she decided to
become more fashionable. The fashion focus also helps liven up the inevitable
talking points about how nerdy and incredibly smart she is - tired lines that
always seem to crop up in profiles of Fey. We also like the piece delving into
"the most exciting fashion designers today," complete with a picture of all of
them dressed in - you guessed it-black.

Morocco is in fashion, evidently because Harper's Bazaar Editor-in-Chief Glenda
Bailey spotted Gwyneth Paltrow and Jennifer Aniston at a recent hotel opening
there. A photo spread, "MarrakechMagic," provides further insight into how
trends are born, and reading this mag helps explain why they're a dime a dozen
these days. There's a "Bonnie & Clyde" spread with Depression-era frocks and
tweeds, a flaming Almodovar spread, and a photo essay with a female model
dressed as Karl Lagerfeld. We did like, however, the profile on Katie Couric,
who declares "there's nothing wrong" with "tweaks here and there," including
Botox.

In an interview with W, shapely ingenue Megan Fox can't seem to stop blabbering
about her insecurities. There's fashion, of course ("I feel intimidated. . . I
hate doing photo shoots.") And there's fame ("I didn't sign up for that. . . It
created itself.") Even acting ("There's a million people I could name who are
more deserving of the parts I get.") One famous insecurity of hers she doesn't
mention is her brachydactyly (stubby, toe-like thumbs) and W seems to take pity
on her, either positioning or airbrushing her thumbs so they look perfectly
normal. Elsewhere, we get somewhat tired-looking spreads of London club kids and
1940s-era lingerie. Maybe that offers some insight on why W's ad pages have
plunged so drastically.

At first glance, complaints that Vanity Fair snubbed "Precious" star Gabourey
Sidibe in its latest cover on the new Hollywood because she's neither skinny nor
white seem overblown. Then you realize the cover folds out and three skinny,
white women turn into nine. And while we realize this is partly a consequence of
the Vanity Fair machine, the nine women all look annoyingly similar and overly
scrubbed - like a bunch of mannequins. Beyond the icky cover, however, lies some
good reading. We like the story detailing the Bling Ring, which author Nancy Jo
Sales describes as a Hollywood burglary gang consisting of "clubhopping kids,
motivated by vanity and celebrity worship." Among their targets have been Paris
Hilton and Lindsay Lohan.

Elle attempts to simplify spring fashion by picking out the top 14 trends,
ranging from lacy frocks and army jackets to overalls and cheerleader skirts,
but the result looks like a clothing heap at an old rummage sale. Beware: One of
the big trends this spring is short hemlines - and we mean dangerously short.
The mag sounds the alarm in an amusing essay about the micro-minis. Speaking of
baring all, Elle's story on group marital therapy is more sad than shocking in
this era of reality TV.

Some die-hard New Yorker readers might be taken aback by a headline about "the
crazy world of psychotherapy." But this week's lead article is mostly a digest
of recent books about antidepressants. More intriguing was a piece about an old
community of "mountain people" living in the Ramapo Mountains about 25 miles
from New York City, although it didn't seem to penetrate the community all that
deeply. Less engaging was a profile of New York Times columnist Paul Krugman,
although we enjoyed the depictions of him scribbling in his smallish Caribbean
bungalow and attending the yoga class his wife teaches.

For its cover story, Time hired CUNY professor Peter Beinart to pen an essay on
"how Washington stopped working." He makes good points about the death of
moderates and the hardening of party lines. Meanwhile, an essay by Newt Gingrich
urging President Obama to drop Democratic health-care legislation is a snooze of
partisan fantasy. Elsewhere, there are serviceable features about the rise of
the Tea Party movement, Somalia and Islamic extremism, and an obesity rehab camp
for teenagers.

Newsweek's cover story "If The Republicans Were In Charge" promises to portray
the GOP outlook but instead gives us a list of surface-level talking points on
why the GOP is wrong about health care, the economy, taxes and so on. The
headline for the next feature warns about climate-change skeptics "who play fast
and loose with the facts." Not that we're arguing, we had just hoped for
articles not so big and blaring - think smaller, fresher, more focused and
varied.

---

On the Newsstand

Vogue: 2 stars

Bazaar: 3

W: 1 1/2

Elle: 2

Vanity Fair: 2

The New Yorker: 2

Time: 1 1/2

Newsweek: 1 1/2

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday

SLICK BAM'S FLIP-FLOP - NOW HE SHOWS THE WILL TO DRILL

BYLINE: GEOFF EARLE Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 535 words


WASHINGTON - In a policy reversal, President Obama unveiled a plan to open a
huge swath of the Atlantic coast to oil drilling yesterday - but excluding the
Jersey Shore.

Saying the country would need "vital energy sources to maintain our economic
growth and our security," Obama proposed allowing energy exploration along a
stretch of coastline from Delaware to central Florida, lifting a 20-year ban.

He said the drilling for oil and natural gas would be part of a "broader
strategy" to move away from dependence on foreign oil.

He also wants to open up the eastern Gulf of Mexico, 125 miles off Florida's
shoreline, and said that drilling could begin 50 miles off the coast of Virginia
in 2012.

Obama, speaking at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland, acknowledged that some
people "strongly disagree" with his decision, and environmental groups and some
Democrats slammed the new proposal.

During the presidential campaign, Obama had ripped his opponent John McCain's
call for more drilling, at a time when the Republican convention's catchphrase
was "Drill, baby, drill."

"Offshore drilling would not lower gas prices today, it would not lower gas
prices tomorrow, it would not lower gas prices this year, it would not lower gas
prices five years from now," Obama said in 2008.

New exploration would begin immediately, although Congress gets to review the
new policy.

Maryland Democrats vowed to oppose it, citing the risk to Chesapeake Bay.

Exploration would also go forward off the northern coast of Alaska. But,
emphasizing environmental concerns, Obama took Alaska's Bristol Bay off-limits.

Even with New Jersey's coast off limits, Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) fumed that
the risk of a spill was too big a risk.

"Giving Big Oil more access to our nation's waters is really a 'kill, baby,
kill' policy: it threatens to kill jobs, kill marine life and kill coastal
economies that generate billions of dollars," he said.

The administration says there isn't good quality information about how much oil
lies beneath the outer continental shelf, along the coast. The government
estimates there is a 15-year supply of oil under all the new areas.

Asked about the politics, the White House acknowledged the drilling was part of
an effort to secure support for a package to reduce greenhouse gases.

An Interior Department spokesman said North Atlantic states got exempted because
of "almost universal opposition from the state governments, demographic
opposition, the valuable fisheries that are in there, and those states'
overwhelming preference for renewable resources."

---

It's rigged

Highlights of President Obama's (left, yesterday) oil drilling plans:

TIMETABLE

* Drilling could start as soon as 2012 on a parcel 50 miles off the coast of
Virginia

* Seismic studies could begin immediately for other areas

OUTPUT

* Estimated 63 billion barrels of oil are in areas identified in Arctic and
Atlantic

* Gulf areas could have 36 billion to 42 billion barrels

* Virginia parcel could have 130 million barrels of oil, 1.14 cubic feet of
natural gas

MAP GRAPHIC

- Newly approved gas and oil exploration, study areas

- Existing drilling areas

- Newly protected areas

Source: US Gov./MMS

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Barack Obama.  [AFP/Getty]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday

BRIGHT SPARKS - A WALK DOWN ELECTRIC AVENUE - SOME OF THE ELECTRIC AND HYBRID
MODELS THAT COULD SOON BE ON YOUR SHOPPING LIST

BYLINE: LIZ TURNER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1418 words


FOR THE PAST few years we've been told that the great new way to power a car,
cut energy consumption and dependence on foreign oil was to slip in a hydrogen
fuel cell. They were due any time now, maybe 2010. Or 2012. The date was always
slipping.

Just as we've accepted that living in the 21st century doesn't mean we will get
those jet packs we were promised, we're beginning to realize it could be a long
wait for those FCs.

At the New York Auto Show this year the future seems to be electric. Everyone's
talking up electric vehicles (EVs). Ever-more sophisticated "conventional"
hybrids are being launched, and all-electric cars are promised soon.

Somewhere in between is Chevrolet Volt (see page 00) which is still creeping
towards production. This type of car has become known as a plug-in hybrid
(because, well, you plug it in).

Its most significant feature, however, is the comparative size of its gas engine
and electric motor. A conventional hybrid has a sizable gasoline engine and a
small motor.

The Volt has a small gas engine, but its function is to power up the batteries
for the big electric motor. Its wheels are always turned by electricity, but it
won't run out of electric power and leave you stranded (unless you forget to
fill up with gas.)

VOLKSWAGEN TOUAREG

The Touareg will be the first Volkswagen SUV to be offered in a hybrid version.

It's powered by a V6 gasoline engine and an electric motor, and when these work
simultaneously ("boosting"), they can generate 375 hp. The Touareg can be driven
up to 30 mph in purely electric mode - an emissions-free, new thermal management
system guarantees that the proper operating temperature is reached quicker.

This is important in attaining improved fuel economy, especially on short trips.

AUDI E-TRON

Audi will launch a production version of the e-tron electric car at the end of
2012. Various concept versions have been shown, the most desirable being a
two-seater sports car seen at Detroit in January this year. (Sadly, it won't be
appearing in New York.)

Rupert Stadler, chairman of the Board of Management of Audi AG in Germany, said:
"We shall offer electric power in the best possible forms for a wide range of
mobility needs. The hybrid driveline will be followed by all-electric
vehicles... The e-tron is to be the Audi brand name for electric mobility,"

The Audi e-tron concept is an uncompromising two-seater sports car with
all-electric drive. Its aluminum body is a classic wedge shape with a muscular
stance, and its low weight, short wheelbase and perfect weight distribution
promise the drive-ability of a go-kart.

Its gross weight of around only 2,976lb plus 204 hp delivered by two high-torque
electric motors driving the rear wheels should add up to stunning performance.
Audi quotes 0 to 62 mph (100 km) in just 5.9 seconds.

The e-tron is also able to distribute its electric motors' high torque between
the wheels as required. This 'torque vectoring' is the key to a thrilling level
of precision and traction. It also has an operating range of up to 155 miles.

PORSCHE CAYENNE

The German trio of Porsche, VW and Audi have been working together for several
years to develop a new hybrid drive system. The Volkswagen Touareg and Porsche
Cayenne will go on sale in 2010 with this new system.

The new Porsche Cayenne will make its US debut at the New York Show. The Cayenne
S and Cayenne Turbo go on sale in July as a 2011 model; the Cayenne and Cayenne
S Hybrid in the fall. Like other hybrids, the Cayenne S.

What makes the Cayenne S Hybrid unique is its ability to cruise at high speeds
on electric power alone.

FIAT 500 EV

Fiat's oh-so-cute 500 is frugal enough, but now Chrysler LLC has announced an
electric version for the US in 2012. Scott Kunselman, Senior Vice President
Engineering--Chrysler Group LLC, said: "The Fiat 500 is a small, lightweight
platform perfect for integrating electric-vehicle technology."

It will use a high-power electric motor, an advanced lithium-ion battery and an
EV control unit to manage the power.  All engineering and development will take
place at Chrysler Group headquarters in Auburn Hills, MI. The gas Fiat 500
arrives later this year.

LEXUS CT 100H

The sporty five door Lexus CT200h will be the first dedicated hybrid vehicle in
the premium compact segment. It will be revealed to the US in New York before
going on sale afterwards.

Mark Templin, Lexus Division group vice president and general manager, said:
"The stylish CT 200h will excite eco-conscious, young consumers and symbolize
urban, luxury living."

The CT 200h will have four driving modes: Normal, Eco, Sport and EV. Lexus will
release a short interactive film providing a virtual test drive. Watch out for
it on YouTube

AUDI Q5

Audi's plans have changed numerous times over the course of development, with
the Q7, A4 and Q5 all being identified as that brand's first application.
Recently, Audi CEO Dr. Rupert Stadler announced that the Q5 hybrid would finally
debut in 2011 as the brand's first massproduced hybrid. A concept A8 luxury car
was shown at the Geneva Show in March.

A NEW LEAF

THE EASIEST WAY to spot a Nissan Leaf is to look for where the tailpipe should
be - it doesn't have one.

Nissan has taken a bold step with the Leaf, which is a high-volume, affordable
(around $25,280 after tax savings) fully electric car. Because it burns no gas,
it doesn't emit CO2 or other greenhouse gases. It's also attractively styled and
promises to be fun to drive.

At its launch, Nissan president and CEO Carlos Ghosn said: "We have been working
tirelessly to make this day a reality -the unveiling of a real-world car that
has zero - not simply reduced - emissions."

The LEAF is powered by laminated compact lithium-ion batteries, and its electric
motor delivers 107 hp. Most importantly, with a little extra energy from its
regenerative braking, its range is 100 miles, quite enough for most commuters.

Nissan has given the LEAF an advanced IT system. A global data center provides
support, information and entertainment.

TEST DRIVE - CHEVROLET VOLT

The most remarkable thing to be said about the Volt is that it drives like an
ordinary car. This is a worthy achievement for a four-door capable of commuting
40 miles without consuming a drop of gas, not to mention the 300-mile range
available before plugging in or topping off is necessary.

Every other electric car I've driven whines like an overgrown Power Wheel toy.
After an impressive spurt of acceleration, highway-speed enthusiasm is always
lacking. But my major gripe concerning other electric cars is how rapidly their
battery-charge needles rush towards the depleted side of the dial.

The Volt I drove is what GM calls an integration vehicle. That's engineer-speak
for a prototype that drives properly even though it looks like it was assembled
by a high school shop class. The spirit was willing even if the trim was tacky
and the instruments were out of touch with production intent.

I had the run of GM's Tech Center campus on a Sunday when all speed limits were
blissfully suspended. My chaperone, Volt vehicle line director Tony Posawatz,
bit his lip while I buried the accelerator into the carpet.

The oomph available at 30 mph held constant as the speedometer needle swung past
90 mph. During that run, the engine came to life with a subtle shudder to
maintain the flow of electrical energy. I finally lifted when the digital
speedometer reported 92 mph - about eight mph short of the governed maximum,
according to Posawatz. As soon as I eased off, the engine's hum faded into the
tire noise wind in the background.

Whipped hard into a tight traffic circle, the Volt cornered confidently with
modest body lean. Front grip faded well ahead of the rear tires' adhesion; there
was ample warning of the impending limit.

My Volt preview convinced me that it is a genuine milestone on the road to
clean, efficient transportation. More importantly, Volt's endearing personality
is sure to convince early buyers that they made a shrewd choice.

- Don Sherman

WE SEE YOU

The Volt was a guest on the green carpet of Global Green USA's 2010 Pre-Oscar
Party on March 3 in Hollywood.

Proceeds from the event benefit Global Green's initiatives to fight climate
change by creating healthy, green communities. Celebrities checking out the Volt
included director James Cameron and his wife Suzy Amis (left) and Global Green
red carpet dress design winner Jillian Ganz. So maybe if you're blue and have a
tail, the Volt would be the car for you.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIAT 500 EV. PORSCHE CAYENNE. LEXUS CT100H.  AUDI E-TRON. VOLKSWAGEN
TOUAREG. AUDI Q5. Nissan Leaf.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

EXCELLENT JOB

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 874 words


After a batch of oddball magazines became National Magazine Award recipients
last year, 2010 was about returning to more familiar names. Even so, there were
surprises, including Glamour winning for overall general excellence, which begs
the question: Just what does a general excellence magazine look like in this day
and age?

We weren't able to stomach Glamour's cover story on reality TV star Lauren
Conrad and her two BFFs, who happen to look just like her. A photo of the three
blondes faking a pillow fight with perfectly groomed hair was so staged and
undignified that we couldn't stop staring at it in disgust. The Conrad piece was
the center of a bunch of articles on friendship and while we applaud the mag's
effort, we don't know why women's friendships inevitably must be depicted by
gossipy sleepover parties. If this is the industry's best title, then perhaps
things are worse than we thought. That said, Glamour scores points with a more
interesting - and realistic - story about a 26-year-old woman named Amy who used
to be a man and the two friends she calls her other family.

General excellence winner in its category, National Geographic offers an
eye-opening report on sleep, saying that scientists know how it works, but don't
know why we do it. In an effort to demonstrate the importance of sleep, the
article opens with an anecdote about a woman with a genetic predisposition to a
sleep disorder that will kill her if in fact she has it. The disorder disrupts
people's ability to nap, then their ability to get a full night's sleep and,
then, wham, no sleep at all. It is always followed by death within a year.

Category winner Men's Health can make you a super being, if you'll spend 20
hours a day doing all the work. As proof, the issue splashes a shirtless Ryan
Phillippe on its cover to display the kind of body made possible by following
the magazine's reams of advice. Cover stories promise "8-Pack Abs In Just 8
Minutes a Day!" and "30 Instant Muscle Meals." They're just two of nine articles
editors crammed on the cover to catch all types of male readers. For the inner
man, there's the guide "Strength & Calm - The Mind/Body Connection" and a piece,
"The Time Bomb In Your Medicine Cabinet," which advises flushing all your pills.

Wired has led technology's pack since its 1993 launch by a team of Silicon
Valley brainiacs. It rose to global glory in the past decade since Condé Nast
bought it and launched international editions covering broader science. The
current issue's cover story, "Geek Power," by acclaimed tech author Steve Levy,
takes a 25-year look at how today's titans and tragic idealists have fared, and
what the next generation faces. Other compelling scientific articles delve into
climate and its role in the rise of natural disasters.

Love her or hate her, it pays to be Sarah Palin. After losing her bid to become
vice president and bordering on broke, Palin is now making big bucks as a
personal brand. New York estimates she brought in $12 million in the past year
between her book, speaking engagements and TV gigs. Who wants to be president
when they can have a remodeled home and a new car in the driveway? Speaking of
characters, New York checks in on Fabrice "Fabulous Fab" Tourre and finds that
he has become a cult figure in some circles. Like Michael Lewis' "Liar's Poker,"
which was supposed to serve as a cautionary tale, the Goldman Sachs trader is
inspiring other wannabe masters of the universe to pursue a career on Wall
Street. "Someday, I hope I will 'outfab' the Fab," the mag quotes 20-year-old
student Animesh Singh. Scary.

Despite the brouhaha over Goldman, New Yorker financial columnist James
Surowiecki seems to think that nothing much will change on Wall Street. While
banks get in trouble from time to time, investors always seem to be able to look
past their failings with renewed faith. Sadly, he's right. Janet Malcolm's
examination of a Queens murder trial is billed as an "anatomy" or a murder trial
involving the shooting death of a young dentist, his doctor wife and a paid
hitman. More than anything, it will leave readers feeling vaguely unsettled.

Time is disappointed that former golden firm Goldman Sachs was purposely
peddling "junk" to investors. While it seems Wall Street was born greedy, the
mag argues things weren't always that way and blames a power shift that put
traders ahead of investment bankers. The mag makes a valid point about the rise
of a risk-taking culture, but it sounds hysterical and shrill to say "it's our
jobs vs. their bonuses on every trade."

Newsweek's Fareed Zakaria takes the other side of the trade in defending
Goldman, arguing the American people are rushing to judgment without waiting for
all the evidence. Although Zakaria says he is in favor of financial regulation,
he contends that by going after Goldman, the SEC is making the mistake of
retroactively criminalizing what used to be "standard business practice" on Wall
Street. Newsweek says former political rivals President Obama and Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton make a good tag team.

---

On the Newsstand

Glamour: 1 1/2 stars

National Geographic: 2

Men's Health: 2 1/2

Wired: 3

The New Yorker: 4

New York: 2 1/2

Time: 1 1/2

Newsweek: 2

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

POLITICO TO CHALLENGE CHARTER FOE PERKINS

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 664 words


In a move that rocked the Harlem political establishment, well-known political
consultant Basil Smikle announced yesterday he will challenge state Sen. Bill
Perkins in a Democratic primary - and slammed the incumbent's opposition to
charter schools.

"I'm running because I feel I can be a far better representative than Senator
Perkins," Smikle, who strongly supports charter schools, told The Post.

The former aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton and Bill Clinton declared his
candidacy after longtime friend Larry Blackmon bowed out of the race and cleared
the field.

Insiders said Blackmon - a deputy city parks commissioner who previously worked
for Sen. Charles Schumer - would likely back Smikle.

Smikle charged that Perkins on Monday turned against Harlem parents and kids by
voting against legislation to lift the cap on the number of charter schools, and
he vowed to make that a major issue in the campaign.

"Education reform has galvanized the community," Smikle said.

The challenger accused Perkins of damaging the state's chances to win additional
federal funding for education.

"This is the second time the senator has stopped New York from getting $700
million in federal funding," Smikle said, referring to Perkins' opposition to
raising the charter cap - a move the feds have indicated is needed if state
wants extra aid from Washington.

Smikle - who also has ties to Mayor Bloomberg - is expected to tap into support
from pro-charter school parents and financial backers of charters.

For his part, Perkins will likely receive the strong backing of the United
Federation of Teachers, which is fighting a dramatic expansion of charters.

"Senator Perkins has been a staunch supporter of all the children of Harlem.
That will weigh heavily in our endorsement process," said UFT President Mike
Mulgrew.

Politicos said a Perkins-Smikle matchup would make for a fascinating contest,
although they concede Perkins is clearly the favorite ahead of the September
vote.

Smikle said he plans to talk to Harlem residents about other pressing issues
such as affordable housing and the corrupt climate in the state Legislature.

"There is dysfunction in Albany. There is a disconnect in what's happening in
Albany and what's happening on the street," he said.

Smikle's candidacy shook up Harlem's political establishment, whose leaders
pointedly did not rally around the incumbent.

Manhattan Democratic leader Keith Wright, who has yet to line up behind Perkins,
called Smikle a "very bright fellow."

But Wright also said Perkins is a "very formidable candidate," adding, "As
Democratic county leader, I usually back incumbents."

Embattled Rep. Charles Rangel declined to take sides, but said he didn't know
Smikle well.

Harlemites were thrilled that Smikle was taking the fight to Perkins.

Longtime resident Arnie Segarra - who worked alongside Smikle in Fernando
Ferrer's campaign for borough president and mayor - said he was coming out of
retirement to help the insurgent.

"Perkins is vulnerable. It's time for a change," Segarra said.

"This is one of those rare occasions where the community - those who are not
involved in the political clubhouses - are talking about the education of their
children. This is bottom up. This is a groundswell."

Londel Davis, owner of Londel's restaurant, said: "Basil Smikle is the best man
for the job the same way that Barack Obama is the best man for the job. Bill
Perkins is about Bill Perkins. Perkins has become politics as usual."

"Basil brings a lot to the table. He's very bright. Basil has listened and paid
attention. He has a good idea of what the issues are."

---

Harlem on his mind

Name: Basil Smikle

Age: 38

Marital status: Divorced

Education: Cornell University, Columbia University

Occupation: Political consultant, professor

Worked for: Hillary Rodham Clinton, Bill Clinton Foundation, Fernando Ferrer,
Mike Bloomberg

Hobbies: Motorcycle riding, jazz and reggae, films

Favorite author: James Baldwin

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Basil Smikle. [N.Y. Post: Chad Rachman]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday

PIERCE: KNICKS WERE TOXIC TO ROBINSON

BYLINE: MARC BERMAN

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 546 words


The Celtics' Paul Pierce believes that Nate Robinson needed to get out of the
losing climate of the Knicks to salvage his career and grow as a person and
player.

The 5-foot-7 1/2 Robinson also might grow a championship ring on his finger -
the final indignity to the Knicks' season.

In taking a shot at the Knicks' culture, Pierce said Robinson's career needed a
change after 4 1/2 seasons at the Garden. Robinson had a small but key role in
the Celtics' series-tying 103-94 victory over the Lakers on Sunday.

Robinson charged up the tired Celts in playing the first 6:02 of the fourth
quarter, scoring seven points (2-of-2 from the field, 2-of-2 from the line).

At a crucial moment, he spelled the exhausted Rajon Rondo and Ray Allen.

The next three games are in Boston, beginning with tonight's Game 3.

"As a group, it's helping him a lot," Pierce told The Post.

"Seeing our habits on and off the court, he's understanding it's the better
routine. When you get around a certain team and there's no discipline, you tend
to go off on your own and do whatever you want. It's a lot different here. We're
a championship team on and off the court. He's seeing it and learning from it."

Robinson signed a one-year, $4 million deal with the Knicks days before training
camp, but he and coach Mike D'Antoni staged an infamous in-season war in which
Robinson was benched 14 straight games.

Finally, at the trading deadline, the Knicks and Robinson mutually agreed to a
divorce, with Robinson traded to Boston.

Though he's played a smaller role than expected with the Celtics and has seven
DNPs in 19 playoff games, he still has had an impact, and his role may grow
after playing key fourth-quarter minutes in both Finals.

"It's a roller coaster, man," Robinson said. "You got ups and downs where you
say whoa. At the end, you get off the roller coaster, you say it was the best
ride I've ever been on.

"We're in the Finals. I'm happy. Boston is a wonderful place. I'm just here
trying to win a championship.

"What don't kill you makes you stronger," Robinson added. "I get stronger as I
move along."

The Knicks refused to make a long-term commitment to Robinson in their blueprint
of signing major free agents this summer. Robinson has told confidants he thinks
the Knicks' bid for James will come up short and wishes they had viewed him as a
long- term piece.

Asked about the Knicks' chances of landing LeBron this summer, Robinson said, "I
don't know who they'll get. We got to wait to the summer and find out."

Robinson also is a free agent and would like to re-sign in Boston. His Finals
play could be a determinant, but he's got a national stage now.

To date, Doc Rivers has only trusted Robinson for spot duty, but the Celtics
coach gave Robinson high praise after Game 2's victory, calling him "huge."

Said Robinson, "You got to be ready. He [Rivers] told me he was going to put me
in. I just didn't know when. Everyone has to know their role. Mine is bringing
energy."

---

NBA Finals

All games on ABC

Game 1: Lakers 102, Celtics 89

Game 2: Celtics 103, Lakers 94

Tonight: at Boston, 9 p.m.

Thursday, June 10: at Boston, 9 p.m.

Sunday: at Boston, 8 p.m.

x-Tuesday, June 15: at Los Angeles, 9 p.m.

x-Thursday, June 17: at Los Angeles, 9 p.m.

x-if necessary

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

TRADERS PLAY AROUND WITH STOCKS, THEN LEAVE 'EM

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 777 words


IT is time for some summer hijinks on Wall Street. So sit back and enjoy the
stock market rally that probably won't last very long.

Stock prices rose nicely for a while yesterday because . . . well, just because.
But by the end of the trading session, market indicators were all showing a loss
as investors grew increasingly nervous.

You'll see different explanations in today's papers for yesterday's initial
gains. For instance, one statistic coming out of Europe suggested that the
economy over there is suddenly looking better.

Two weeks ago, the European economy was a wreck. How did it improve this week?

It makes no sense because business conditions don't turn on a 10-cent euro - it
does sound better when you say a "dime" - even if the Europeans had a plugged
five-cent piece (nickel) with which to stimulate their economies.

The truth of the matter is that stock prices have improved over 4 percent in the
past week only because professionals investors - as happens almost every year -
are able to push them higher when summertime trading volume goes south to the
beach.

And this week is a particularly good for market manipulation because it's one of
those options expiration periods.

A source of mine and I started looking into this phenomenon a few years ago and
we noticed that the stock market tends to have spiffy triple-digit gains within
days of options expiration.

The expiration is this Friday, which also happens to be one of those famed
quarterly triple-witching periods when options as well as futures contracts all
go off the board at the same time.

We aren't sure why it happens, but the guess is that traders want to roll their
options positions over into the next month to keep their portfolios stable. And
in doing so, they create artificial demand that sends stocks higher.

But my point is, stocks have been benefiting from nothing more than the calendar
for a little over a week.

And at the same time the US economy is suddenly looking (predictably) weaker -
miserable retail sales, a lousy employment report, calls for budget restraint -
while the European business situation really hasn't changed much.

A couple weeks ago I asked myself a question in this column: Now that the Dow
Jones industrial index has closed below the 10,000 level, will the stock market
go up or down? My answer was a decidedly non-committal "yes."

I wrote in that column that I thought the predominant direction of the market
would be downward because of all the financial problems in the world that I
probably don't need to name by now.

But I also said, "When trading activity is light, the absence of any horrible
outside news could allow traders to move stock prices higher."

OK, so that's exactly what happened yesterday morning - a break in the bad news,
light trading, nice rally.

But the situation was pretty glum before yesterday.

Stock prices had fallen more than 12 percent since April. The Wall Street
Journal yesterday said you'd have to go all the way back to 1950 to find another
time when prices have fallen that rapidly.

This dip in stock prices really shouldn't have surprised anyone - unless, of
course, you truly believed in the economic recovery that so far has been more a
product of Wall Street and political hype than reality.

Wall Street believed in its own spiel and had pushed stock prices up an amazing
71 percent from the Dow's March 9, 2009 low point.

That was then. The more recent 12-percent correction in April and May of this
year was, and still is, the new reality. Back in a column on Feb. 18 I worried
that investors were being set up for a 2007-style ambush.

Stocks didn't start that 12-percent decline until April (aw, missed it by a
month and a half), but there is every reason to believe that Wall Street will
resume its slide when the bulk of traders get back on the job later this summer.

So, if you happen to be adroit at trading this might be your best time to make
some money.

If not, go to the beach, dig a hole and put your money as deep down as you can
for safekeeping.

Oh yeah, remember to leave a marker so you can find it again.

*

Now the insurance industry has complaints against AIG.

Last year Washington had to come to the rescue of the American International
Group, the industry giant that cut a few corners when it was run by Hank
Greenberg and afterwards.

But since the government bailout has been put in place, at least one high-up
insurance industry executive says AIG has been "charging prices that are clearly
uneconomical."

The big question is: Will AIG's pricing put other insurers out of business, or
will the government need to rescue the insurance giant again?

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 24, 2010 Thursday

WOMAN CLAIMS AL SEX 'ABUSE'

BYLINE: Emily Smith

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 377 words


AN Oregon masseuse filed a police statement accusing Al Gore of sexual "abuse"
that left her traumatized after a nearly three-hour, $540 massage session,
according to a bombshell new report.

The alleged incident took place at an upscale hotel in Portland in October 2006
while the former vice president, now 62, was in town to talk about climate
change.

The woman also claimed she even saved pants she wore the night of the encounter
after noticing suspicious stains on the garment, a police report noted.

The sensational allegations by the 54-year-old auburn-haired woman had been kept
under wraps for years, but were uncovered by the National Enquirer in the wake
of Gore's recent split from wife Tipper.

Tipper had previously complained about her husband's trips to massage therapists
and reportedly suspected he may have been involved with one.

The woman's lawyer first told Portland cops in December 2006 that she wanted to
report "unwanted sexual contact" by Gore the previous Oct. 24. But she blew off
police interviews.

On Jan. 6, 2009, however, she decided to file a complaint, alleging that Gore -
who signed into the hotel as "Mr. Stone" - repeatedly subjected her to unwanted
sexual touching.

"I finally got out the door after being forcefully being pulled back in the room
. . . a couple times and trying to leave, to be groped and fondled and have
tongue kisses forced on me. . . . and that's when he's saying, 'You know you
want to do it.' And I was just thinking, 'Oh my God.' "

She said Gore was so persistent, she derided him for "being a crazed sex
poodle."

The Enquirer reported that, according to hotel documents it has seen, Gore
ordered up a 90-minute "therapeutic massage" at Hotel Lucia after 11 p.m. on
Oct. 24, 2006.

That session was followed by a 75-minute "shin do session," which incorporates
accupressure.

The woman said she was so traumatized by the encounter that ". . . my sleep and
mood has been vastly disturbed," that she's "seeing a specialized counselor . .
." and that her "work has been more stressful and frightening for me since this
incident."

A Portland police spokeswoman said the woman contacted detectives this month and
said she was taking her case to the media. Gore declined to comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

A QUEEN SWEEP OF THE APPLE - ROYAL TOUCH AT UN AND GROUND ZERO

BYLINE: REBECCA ROSENBERG and LEONARD GREENE

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 406 words


An emotional Queen Elizabeth II yesterday laid a wreath at Ground Zero and
addressed the United Nations as she made her first visit to New York City in
nearly 35 years.

Her Royal Highness shook hands and briefly talked with relatives of 9/11 victims
after she laid a wreath of peonies, roses and lilies on a wooden riser near the
footprint of the World Trade Center's south tower.

"She's a really nice lady, and for a two-minute conversation, it was very
meaningful," said Nile Berry, 17, whose father, David, a security analyst, was
killed during the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Nile met the queen's grandson in the same spot nearly a year ago when Prince
Harry visited Ground Zero.

"Harry's hair was really memorable," he said. "But the queen's the queen."

The 84-year-old monarch braved the heat in a floral-print matching jacket and
skirt accented by white gloves, and black patent-leather shoes that matched her
purse.

She arrived 15 minutes early to the World Trade Center, where she greeted
dignitaries including Mayor Bloomberg, Gov. Paterson and New Jersey Gov. Chris
Christie.

After receiving a bouquet of flowers from one of Christie's daughters, she shook
hands with 9/11 families and first responders.

"I was so hot and drowning in sweat, and she looked beautiful," said Katie
Lannon, 20, of Howell, NJ, whose father, John, a Port Authority cop, was killed
on 9/11.

The queen, accompanied by her husband, Prince Philip, started her five-hour
whirlwind tour at the United Nations, where she addressed the General Assembly
for the first time since her first appearance there 53 years ago.

"When people in 53 years from now look back on us, they will doubtless view many
of our practices as old-fashioned," the queen said.

"But it is my hope that, when judged by future generations, our willingness to
take a lead . . . will stand the test of time."

She said the United Nations would continue to face the challenges of "terrorism"
and "climate change."

She was at the world body as queen of 16 states and head of the British
Commonwealth.

The queen ended the day by formally opening the British Memorial Garden at
Hanover Square in lower Manhattan, dedicated to the 67 British victims of 9/11.

Amazingly, she never appeared to perspire in the 103-degree heat.

"She wasn't sweaty at all," Nile said. "I think it's something about being
royalty. It was tough. We had to stand in the sun for 20 minutes."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOLEMN DIGNITY: Not breaking a sweat amid the 103-degree heat, Queen
Elizabeth II lays flowers at Ground Zero yesterday. "She's a really nice lady,"
said one 9/11 relative. [Photos: Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

FONT OF INSPIRATION - BOULUD & CO. ADD LIFE TO CULTURE MECCA

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 660 words


BAR Boulud will soon have a next-door kissing cousin: a French-inspired,
grill-themed restaurant that Daniel Boulud plans to open this winter at the
corner of Broadway and 64th Street. Among other things, the 4,000-square-foot
eatery will boast a "nice, big bar meant for drinking" - unlike Bar Boulud,
which for all its wine-and-charcuterie pleasures, has no bar.

Boulud's spokeswoman, Georgette Farkas, says the new place will have a "grilling
concept with a little bit of a healthy accent, a partly open kitchen and
Mediterranean and other influences." Thomas Schlesser - who created the looks
for Bar Boulud and DBGB - will design the 110-seat dining room, a 24-seat lounge
and a 16-stool bar.

The restaurant isn't named yet. (Doesn't DBar & Grill sound logical?) But by any
name, the sixth Manhattan venue from one of the world's greatest chefs marks
another advance for the eating scene in Lincoln Square, the blossoming corridor
astride Broadway north of Columbus Circle to 72nd Street.

Boulud originally planned to expand Bar Boulud into the sidestreet portion of
the former bank space next door. But he recently leased the corner as well, and
decided to launch an entirely new restaurant facing Lincoln Center's
resplendent, reborn plaza and fountain.

He isn't alone. In September, Patina Restaurant Group is launching a $20 million
eatery headed by former Per Se executive chef Jonathan Benno on the Lincoln
Center campus itself, tucked under the new elevated lawn on the North Plaza.

And BR Guest chief Stephen Hanson will soon turn the current O'Neals' on 64th
Street near Broadway into a sea-monster-size Atlantic Grill with 250 seats.
"We'll be in great company," Hanson says. "The neighborhood always had great
energy, but nothing like today's."

The blocks near Lincoln Center once were of a piece with the rest of the Upper
West Side, but now feel ever more distinct from it. First came new condos, then
movie theaters and Barnes & Noble, followed by glamorous luxury apartment tower
15 Central Park West.

Broadway's malls were landscaped in the manner of Europe's great boulevards.
Lincoln Center emerged from years of construction looking newly minted. Alice
Tully Hall shed its travertine skin for welcoming glass. And the equally
transparent Apple store a block north is "like Mecca," says chef Ed Brown, who
oversees the menu at thriving Ed's Chowder House in the Empire Hotel.

The dining climate between Broadway and Columbus Avenue improved with the street
environment. Lincoln Square Business Improvement District President Monica Blum
says that, in 14 years, "Our restaurant scene has changed more dramatically than
anything else."

Telepan has matured into one of the city's best market-driven American bistros.
(Love those soft-shell crabs!) Compass has the best lobster deal in town (a
three-pounder for $39). Terrance Brennan's Picholine remains the standard for
classically influenced Mediterranean cooking.

There's variety: Mexican at Rosa Mexicano, Italian at Gabriel's, Indian at
Sapphire, French-American at Cafe Luxembourg, Jewish deli at Lansky's and
Japanese, well, pretty much everywhere. For nostalgic eaters, strong whiffs of
the old days live on at the West Side Diner and Gray's Papaya.

Nowhere do things feel as vibrant as along the "restaurant row" on between 63rd
and 64th Street, where in addition to Bar Boulud, longtime favorites Fiorello
and Josephina continue to draw big crowds indoors and out. The latter two are
particularly spacious with a festive air.

So is Shun Lee West nearby - after nearly 25 years, still the best Chinese on
the Upper West Side. It's also an amusing time warp with its 1980s take on the
faux-exoticism of decades earlier: an endless, papier-mache dragon entwines a
disco-era dining chamber with black lacquer trim and stepped seating levels.

Let's hope they never change it. But the culinary scene was due for new blood,
and Boulud and Benno seem ready to bring it to a rolling boil.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Old-school spots Fiorello and Shun Lee enjoy increased buzz with new
neighbors. -Former Per Se executive chef Jonathan Benno is setting the table for
an eatery under the new elevated lawn.  [Mario Tama/Getty Images] -Lincoln
Center's renovated plaza and fountain are drawing fresh interest to the area
from hot restaurateurs such as Daniel Boulud.  [Jonathan Baskin (3)] -Old-school
spots Fiorello and Shun Lee enjoy increased buzz with new neighbors. -Former Per
Se executive chef Jonathan Benno is setting the table for an eatery under the
new elevated lawn.  [Mario Tama/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

GUSHER OF SELF-PITY - BOOTED BP BOSS HAYWARD CRIES: 'LIFE IS NOT FAIR'

BYLINE: CHUCK BENNETT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 384 words


It's almost as lame as an oil-covered seabird struggling to flap its wings.

Ousted BP chief executive Tony Hayward hosted a pity party yesterday -
blubbering he was made a scapegoat for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill that
happened on his watch.

"The fact is that life isn't fair," griped gaffe-prone Hayward, who'll receive
millions in severance and pension payments after being booted from the company's
top spot.

"Whether it is fair or unfair is not the point," he told reporters from the
firm's headquarters in London. "I became the public face and was demonized and
vilified. BP cannot move on in the US with me as its leader."

Continuing his poor-me attitude, Hayward sniffed, "Sometimes you step off the
pavement and get hit by a bus."

But even the toxic climate surrounding Hayward didn't stop the company's
chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, from heaping praise on the outgoing CEO.

Tony Hayward "has done a good job at BP all through almost 30 years and also as
chief executive," Svanberg said, according to The Independent newspaper.

Yet Hayward owned up to at least some role in the disaster.

"The Gulf of Mexico explosion was a terrible tragedy for which - as the man in
charge of BP when it happened - I will always feel a deep responsibility,
regardless of where blame is ultimately found to lie," said Hayward, 53.

Svanberg added: "We are taking a hard look at ourselves, what we do and how we
do it."

The remarks came as BP yesterday announced a record $17 billion loss last
quarter in the wake of the April 20 explosion that killed 11 and left oil
spewing for three months.

At the same time, BP announced it was claiming an eye-popping $10 billion in
federal tax credits in order to defray the cost of the Gulf cleanup.

Hayward will step down on Oct. 1, but was also just appointed to the board of
TNK-BP - BP's lucrative joint venture to exploit Siberian oil fields.

His successor in the top spot, American Bob Dudley, 54, was CEO of that joint
venture from 2003 to 2008.

Dudley, who took over day-to-day control of the spill-response effort last
month, said he's going to take the bull by the horns.

Meanwhile, the Coast Guard was responding to a new Gulf oil spill after a boat
struck a well near New Orleans, sending a geyser 20 feet in the air.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHUFFLING THE DECK: BP Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg is flanked by
ousted CEO Tony Hayward (left) and new CEO Bob Dudley in London yesterday.
[Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday

GOODELL-FOR-NOTHING; COMMISH AND NFL NO FRIEND OF THE FANS

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 765 words


THE mark of modern sports stewardship has become the leaders' ability to grab
our wallets with one hand, shove us into traffic with the other, and still be
able to stare into a TV camera and say that we owe him no thanks, being good to
us comes with the job.

At a time when the NFL has never been as greed-stricken and greed-sickened, NFL
Commissioner Roger Goodell appeared on TV, Thursday night, to declare that he
and the NFL, as always, are on your side. He did so on the NFL Network, which
all fans and non-fans, by now, were expected to pay for, whether they liked it
or not, and all cable companies, by now, were supposed to have cleared because,
after all, it's the NFL Network.

Goodell appeared from Green Bay, before a collection of fawning, applauding
Packers fans, in what was titled a "Fan Forum," a one-hour, climate-controlled
session during which broad, harmless answers followed broad, harmless questions.
NFL Network host Fran Charles began by asking/telling Goodell this tone-setting
toughie:

"You like to get out to meet and greet the fans about all their issues. . . .
Why do you think these Fan Forums are so important?"

"Well," said Goodell, "because the game's all about the fans." The nausea was as
instant as the insult.

While "the game's all about the fans," the largest, ugliest and most revolting
NFL consumer issue in the league's largest market is still, months after it
began, erupting, still spewing toxic ooze.

The Jets and Giants in order to pay for a new stadium that few wanted, have each
quickly eaten through more than 20 years of ticket-waiting lists, leaving each
team to troll for unregistered chumps to fill the stadium. Both still
desperately seek purchasers of extortion-based personal seat licenses (PSLs),
plus game tickets that carrying face values nearly 10 times what they were two
seasons ago.

And the only thing that could have happened - generations of devoted,
stand-for-anything Jets and Giants patrons, tens of thousands of them, were
shoved to the last rows of the new stadium or priced out, completely - is
exactly what has happened.

"The game's all about the fans," Goodell claimed. His previous claim that PSLs
"are good investments" for fans was so bogus that PSL contract language
specifies that PSLs should in no way be regarded as an investment.

The game's all about money. No adult fan is so naive to think otherwise. But the
kind of money that the NFL and its business partners now demand is predicated on
NFL fans serving as the nation's biggest sports dopes, starting right here.

Typical PSL scenario: Jets' ticket holder since the Shea days, four tickets at
the 40. Last year, the tickets were raised to $105 per game. Throw in the two
must-buy exhibition game extorts - at full, regular season prices - and his
pre-parking bill for last season was $4,200, the highest it had ever been, but
OK.

This season? The Jets wanted $700 per ticket per game, plus $20,000 per seat for
the PSLs - a total of $108,000!

And one of this year's Jets' home games was moved to Thanksgiving night, not for
the fans, but for NFL Network. As the rest of this region heads home that night,
Jets' patrons are expected to be heading out, an 8:20 kickoff.

Only something colossally greedy could make the Jets' and Giants' ticket waiting
lists vanish in a snap; only something monstrously ugly could prevent sellouts
for the first time in decades. And that's what has happened.

The game's so much "about the fans" that the NFL continues to sell/grant TV
networks - including its own - the authority to change more and more logically
scheduled games - Sunday afternoons - to Sunday, Monday and Thursday nighters,
including night games played outdoors in cold weather cities in November and
December.

Yeah, Rog, it's all about the fans - how much they'll take before they walk away
(or are shoved out) and never return because the NFL taught them to stay home.

It's so much about the fans that the NFL, for $1 billion a year, sold DirecTV
its out-of-market package, then didn't care how badly DirecTV, using the NFL as
bait, suckered fans. What DirecTV has advertised "on special" for $315, it will
sell - on the down-low - for under $200 to subscribers who threaten to
discontinue. The NFL sold its logo, license and games to DirecTV, then allowed
DirecTV to make fools of its fans.

"Anyone need two for the Aug 16th Giants-Jets exhibition? Just $700 a ticket!
It's a big one - both teams' first preseason game! Don't miss out on the chance
to watch players you'll never see again! Just $700 a ticket! It's all about you,
the fans!"

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAY WHAT! Commissioner Roger Goodell (left) - speaking at the Packers'
annual meeting of shareholders with Green Bay president Mark Murphy - says the
"game's all about the fans," but continues to stand idly by as Giants and Jets
fans are priced out of season tickets because of personal seat licenses. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 15, 2010 Friday

TOO CRUEL TO $CHOOLS - FOR-PROFIT SECTOR TAKES ENROLLMENT HIT

BYLINE: KAJA WHITEHOUSE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 308 words


Steven Eisman, the financial whiz whose bets against the housing market were
detailed in best-seller "The Big Short," must be doing a victory lap on his
latest wager - the meltdown of for-profit education companies.

Yesterday, shares of Apollo Group, operator of the University of Phoenix, fell
as much as 27 percent after executives predicted a steep drop in enrollment amid
regulatory pressure to reduce dropout rates and student loan defaults.

Apollo, the largest for-profit college by enrollment, said late Wednesday that
new student enrollment for the period ended in August dropped 10 percent as the
company changed tactics to "enroll students who have the greatest likelihood of
succeeding."

"Given the uncertainties, we are withdrawing the business outlook for fiscal
year 2011," CFO Brian Swartz said in a call with investors, adding that
enrollment for the quarter ending in November may fall more than 40 percent due
to the changes.

The Apollo news walloped the rest of the sector. Strayer Education fell 13
percent to $136.20; Corinthian Colleges dropped 20 percent to $4.79; and
Education Management Corp. tanked 23 percent to $10.22. Apollo Group closed down
23 percent to $37.97.

In May, Eisman - who manages money for Morgan Stanley hedge fund FrontPoint
Partners - blasted the for-profit education industry, calling it "as socially
destructive and morally bankrupt as the subprime mortgage industry."

His main beef is that the industry's revenues come in large part from federally
guaranteed loans and grants even as dropout rates and loan defaults suggest the
schools are pushing education on people who can't afford it.

Last month, the Department of Education said students at for-profit schools
represented 26 percent of the borrower population but 43 percent of all
defaulters.

---

Apollo Group - Close: $38 (-$11.50)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Falling grades: The bloom is definitely off the rose at Apollo Group,
corporate home of the University of Phoenix, whose stock plummeted 23 percent
yesterday. [Bloomberg]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 22, 2010 Friday

BAUER TAKES AIM AT MALE READERS FOR A CHANGE

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 767 words


A new male-oriented magazine covering science, nature and psychology, to be
called ID, Ideas and Discoveries, is in the works from Bauer Publication for
launch before year's end.

It marks one of the few magazine launches by a major US publisher this year.

The company said it will draw on a successful sister title, called Welt Der
Wunder - World of Wonder - from its German parent company. It has installed
Sebastian Raatz, the vice president of new media who previously worked at Axel
Springer, as the launch editor.

The new magazine with big photos and graphics is slated to hit Dec. 10 with a
250,000-copy distribution and a fairly high $4.99 cover price. It will appear
six times a year.

The launch signals a new direction for Bauer, where all of its existing
magazines, including Life & Style, In Touch, First for Women and Woman's World,
are aimed at women.

Greg Slattery, the group publisher of women's magazines who will be the launch
publisher of ID, said he's not discouraged by the tough ad climate. "Bauer has
had success in launching a variety of magazines in different economic times with
resounding success," he said. And like other European titles - but unlike most
American magazines - it will not depend on ads for the majority of its revenue
stream but will instead rely on single-copy sales.

Big advance

Any sign that there was lingering ill will between Random House and
controversial agent Andrew Wylie was dispelled with the news yesterday that the
publisher is agreeing to fork over what is believed to be a low seven-figure
advance to "Satanic Verses" author Salman Rushdie for his memoir.

Markus Dohle, chairman and CEO of Random House Worldwide, put together the deal,
which will bring the English, Spanish and German book rights to Random House
imprints across the globe. This past summer, Wylie thought he had found a
loophole in the contracts of many venerable authors who had signed book deals
long before the dawn of electronic publishing.

Wylie said he was going to introduce a new imprint, called Odyssey, in
partnership with Amazon that would sell electronic editions of past bestsellers
directly to consumers, bypassing the publishing houses that had published the
hardcover versions years earlier.

Random House reacted with fury and said it would halt all book deals with Wylie
because, it said, he was now a competitor in the publishing world.

The feud was quietly settled in late August.

The book is due out in 2012.

Pecker plan

Rumors have been swirling for weeks that American Media CEO David Pecker was
getting ready to pull out of the offices in Woodland Hills, Calif., that he has
been renting from vitamin king Joe Weider ever since he purchased Weider
Publications in 2002 for $350 million.

Over the past two years, budgets and staff have been cut after Weider's biggest
advertiser, Hydroxycut, under pressure from the FDA, issued a voluntary recall
of its product in 2009 and halted advertising for a year. Some 500 ad pages
disappeared from Muscle & Fitness. Staffers complained that no raises have been
handed out for at least the past two years.

Earlier this month, vice president of human resources Ken Slivken flew in and
began interviewing everyone working on Muscle & Fitness, Flex, Fit Pregnancy and
Natural Health.

"The claim was 'auditing' but the rumors abound that he plans to move the
magazines from their Woodland Hills offices to New York so he can keep a closer
eye on them," said one insider.

Yesterday, at least some of the prediction came true when Muscle & Fitness
workers were informed that the title's 12-member editorial staff will be moving
to New York in January and getting a new editorial director.

Seth Kelly, a one-time top editor at Maxim, who had recently been running the
Ultimate Fighting quarterly that American Media produces in New York, will be
the new editorial director of Muscle & Fitness.

Kelly is also being named the editorial director of Flex and Muscle & Fitness
Hers, although Allan  Donelly will continue to serve as editor of Flex and
Muscle & Fitness Hers. If any of the staffers of Muscle & Fitness make the move
East, they may not want to unpack their boxes. They will be mov ing into One
Park Ave. in January, but AMI has already signed a long-term lease to move far
downtown to 4 New York Plaza in May.

AMI, which has about 70,000 square feet at its current Manhattan address will be
taking over two floors with about 80,000 square feet when it moves into the
20-story office tower. The expectation is that the remaining Woodlands Hills
staffers will be filling that space next spring.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

DEMS GOOD FOR YUKS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 170 words


IT was perfect timing for a Jon Stewart- hosted benefit Wednesday night. Kicking
off the New York Comedy Festival's "Stand Up for Heroes" event, the "Daily Show"
star took jabs at the defeat of Democrats in the midterm election, calling it an
"ass-whooping." Stewart said when he heard the event was a benefit for the
wounded, "I thought, 'Oh, a Democratic Party fund-raiser,' " reports The Post's
Mandy Stadtmiller. Contrasting the current climate to when President Obama took
the White House in 2008, he said, "Two years ago, Americans voted for change,
and then two years later they said, 'You know what, actually? I'll just have the
usual." He went on, "Republicans were an endangered species. It just shows how
good Democrats really are at conservation. In just two years: an entire
population." Stewart performed alongside Bruce Springsteen, who auctioned a
guitar for $140,000, Jerry Seinfeld, Tony Bennett and Joel McHale. The night
raised more than $2.5 million for the Bob Woodruff Foundation for injured
soldiers.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday

VACANCY SIGNS: BROKERS' DARK STORY

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 777 words


IT'S just dandy that asking rents for retail spaces in certain tourist-trampled
parts of Manhattan are rising, as the Real Estate Board of New York reported
yesterday. We're even told that since last spring ground-floor asking rents in
Times Square jumped to $1,700 per square foot - for a 21-percent increase since
that time.

To which most New Yorkers with eyes will respond: oh, please. And not just
because asking rents often bear little relation to actual rents.

While REBNY notes that "vacancies persist . . . beyond the popular and
well-known shopping corridors," it omits what's obvious to any attentive
pedestrian: namely, that oodles of vacancies exist within those supposedly
white-hot zones as well.

Worse, they're proliferating, even at heavily trafficked corners. What a
miserable signal they send at a time when New York's status as world financial
capital is jeopardized as never before.

And how puzzling, given that most of the city enjoys a low crime rate and
quality of life immeasurably improved over even 15 years ago.

Manhattan's widespread, chronic store vacancies are far more numerous than in
other major world cities and were so even before the financial crash two years
ago. But the culture of self-congratulation in the retail-leasing industry is so
entrenched, it's almost impossible to get an acknowledgement of how
dysfunctional our retail climate can seem to even casual observers.

The REBNY report is based on findings of an advisory board of - guess who? -
retail brokers. They can hide behind fantasies of propaganda about European
designers supposedly eyeing Manhattan, but they can't hide windows-full of
"Prime Retail Location" signs.

They're everywhere - the whole Wall Street area, Bleecker Street, Third Avenue
above 42nd Street, West 57th Street.

At many prominent locations, stores remain vacant for years, lending an air of
defeat. Think of the Eighth Avenue side of the new Hearst tower; the former
Times Square Theater on West 42nd Street, where Marc Ecko walked away from a
deal after tying up the site for four years; and huge spaces in the Flatiron
district that have stood dark seemingly forever.

REBNY counts 110 million square feet of Manhattan retail space. Yet - strangely
for a trade organization so statistically astute - it doesn't cite a vacancy
rate.

We'd guess that's at least 12 percent overall and far higher in certain parts of
town - astonishing in a city blessed with incalculably wealthy shoppers and
probably the heaviest sidewalk traffic in the Western world.

Vacancies were even higher in the late 1980s and early '90s due to a glut of
overpriced space in new buildings, when developers needed to realize the
unrealistic rents they promised banks in pro forma statements.

But today, there isn't that much ground-level retail in new buildings.

Something's more fundamentally out of kilter in the calculus of what tenants can
pay; how little landlords seem to need retail rent income (or they wouldn't let
spaces stand empty so long); and the leeway lenders give them in letting them
carry the black holes indefinitely.

There's always an excuse. The recession, of course. There's a demolition clause.
The co-op won't allow food.

Bank branches, too, are often blamed for driving rents up and forcing out
stores. Maybe - but without all those redundant, little-trafficked branches
paying $500 a square foot, Third Avenue in the 40s and 50s would look even worse
than it does.

The fact that Madison Avenue vacancies are fewer than a year ago is regarded as
progress. Yet there are still more empty spaces on certain blocks north of 59th
Street than on the entire length of Bond Street in London.

In fact, in London, the world capital presenting the most serious challenge to
New York, you can walk for miles and spot scarcely a single "to let" sign. New
Yorkers who think we're the shopping capital of the world should know that
Oxford Street alone has twice as many giant department stores as does all of
Manhattan.

Maybe no one's to blame for New York's retail malaise - but the truth won't
change by anyone pretending that it doesn't exist.

*

Not long ago, L&L Holdings' 600 Third Ave. faced losing 145,000 square feet,
nearly 30 percent of the tower, when Turner Broadcasting's lease expires at
year's end.

But a proactive leasing campaign has already absorbed 107,550 square feet.

L&L recently inked long-term leases with Altegrity Inc., a global security and
law-enforcement training company, for 42,764 square feet, and with HQ Global
Workplaces for 21,382 feet. Those followed an earlier deal with law firm Aarons
Rappaport Feinstein & Deutsch for 43,424 square feet.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMMON SIGHT Views like this on Madison Avenue, parts of which have
only recently been occupied, reveal the dark side of Manhattan's commercial rent
story.   [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 12, 2010 Friday

GORES GLOBAL-WARMING GEEKS

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 658 words


COOL IT

(three and a half stars)  *** 1/2

Hot stuff.

Running time: 88 minutes. Rated PG (mildly disturbing elements). At the
Angelika, the Empire and the 1st and 62nd.

'COOL It," a documentary about a mild-mannered Dane proposing solutions to
global  warming, carries a message likely to provoke, agitate and even
infuriate. The message? The world is not going to end.

Bjorn Lomborg, who (like Al Gore) is not a climatologist but a gadfly with
training in political science, says global warming is an important problem and
praises Gore for drawing attention to the issue with "An Incovenient Truth." But
"Cool It" -  complete with its own slide show and witty graphics -  amounts to a
devastating rebuttal to Gore-ism.

If someone ever demands you watch Gore's film, agree! -  on condition that your
friend watch this optimistic, wised-up answer.

Lomborg, a blond who looks like a Beach Boy, started on his journey when he read
a book by Julian Simon that laid out all the ways in which the world was getting
better -  man was producing more food, reducing pollution, etc. Preposterous!

Lomborg spent six months trying to refute the book, failed, and decided to adapt
his perception of reality to fit the facts. Now he deploys a slide show pointing
out that the most common solution to global warming -  the cap-and-trade system
backed by Enron, GE and BP -  would have a massive price tag, but few benefits.

He reckons that a dollar spent fighting HIV/AIDS would lead to $40 worth of
benefit in the developing world, a dollar spent taking on malaria would have $14
or so worth of benefit -  but implementing the Kyoto plan would yield only 25
cents in benefits for every dollar in costs.

Doing nothing isn't the answer either, Lomborg says. He and director Ondi
Timoner lead us on a tour through such technological fixes as solar and wind
power (both far too costly to be practical) to crafty and cheap ideas such as
painting roofs and roads white to reflect heat. For $1 billion worth of such
fixes, he says, the effects of global warming in Los Angeles for the next 100
years could be wiped out.

Meanwhile, artificial photosynthesis (separating hydrogen and oxygen in water),
pumping seawater into the sky (to brighten clouds and reflect more sunlight) and
other clever and cheap methods are tantalizing prospects. All of them are far
more practical than President Obama -  or not-quite-president Gore's -  ideas
for subsidies of green schemes that will never pay for themselves.

The movie has amusing moments as well, catching the late Stanford professor
Stephen Schneider, a global-warming alarmist, yelling that Lomborg "needs to be
taken down, not put up." Later we see a 1970s clip from the quasi-documentary
series "In Search of," in which we are warned of a coming ice age by a scientist
. . . named Stephen Schneider.

Timoner also has some fun with Gore's documentary, showing that Gore's blather
about 20-foot rises in sea levels inundating New York and other cities is
scoffed at by scientists. (The actual rise, over the next 100 years, will be
more like a foot or so.) Polar bears? Their population has been increasing, from
about 5,000 in the 1960s to 25,000 today. It's been five years since Gore warned
us that we only have 10 years to fix global warming -  hey, Al, my apartment is
near the Hudson River. Wanna bet it's still above water in 2015?

Lomborg rebuts Gore's view that Hurricane Katrina was a product of global
warming with a photo of 1926 Miami Beach. A single hotel is visible in the
picture. The reason hurricane damage spirals up is because more stuff is built
in the path of storms these days. Visiting Holland, much of which lies, like New
Orleans, under sea level, Lomborg shows how that nation successfully deploys
high-tech sea barriers to fend off floods.

Such reasonable thinking has been repaid with headlines like "Bjorn Lomborg is
the devil incarnate." If so, sign me up to be Devil's Advocate.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bjorn Lomborg rebuts much of Al Gore's "An Inconvenient Truth,"
although he admits there is a climate-change problem.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 22, 2010 Monday

GET A WHIFF OF 'POOP POWER'

BYLINE: Tom Topousis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 97 words


Waste not, want not is the city's strategy for huge reserves of untapped energy
bubbling up at sewage treatment plants.

The Department of Environmental Protection is looking for contractors to develop
a poop-to-power project at Wards Island, one of the biggest of the city's 14
treatment plants.

The so-called "digester gas" is a byproduct of the breakdown of sewage. Some of
it has been used for heating at the treatment plants in the past, but all the
excess gas has to be burned off, which creates greenhouse gases, said Deputy
Mayor for Operations Stephen Holloway.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 26, 2010 Friday

BURNED BY BOOTLEG SMOKES; COSTING NY STATE $20M A MONTH

BYLINE: DOUGLAS MONTERO, KEVIN FASICK and CHUCK BENNETT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 989 words


The underground tobacco market is spreading like a fast-growing cancer in the
wake of tax hikes that make New York cigarettes the most expensive in the nation
- and it's costing the state tens of millions a month in lost tax revenue, a
Post analysis has found.

Illegal cigarettes are pouring into neighborhood bodegas by the truckload from
neighboring Indian reservations, lower-tax states in the South and even as far
away as China, authorities say.

Government data show that New York state is being smoked out of as much as $20
million a month from all these illegal cigarette purchases - an estimated 7.3
million packs a month sold off the state tax radar.

"It's an unfortunate side effect of the taxes, creating this black market," said
Ron Turk, special agent in charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms' New York field office.

Sales of taxed cigarettes have plummeted 27 percent since July, when state
lawmakers raised the excise tax to $4.35 a pack on top of the city's tax of
$1.50, making the average price of Marlboros here $11.60, with some shops
charging as much as $14.

About 30 million packs are being sold legally each month - down from 41 million
packs a month before July.

The plunge far exceeds tobacco-control experts' predictions that sales would
fall 8 to 10 percent, indicating that smokers are finding other means to get
their nicotine fix.

In fact, the New York Association of Convenience Store Owners estimates that as
many as half of all cigarettes consumed in the state lack proper tax stamps.

And law enforcement is also worried that the easy cash will spark rivalries
among criminal gangs, just as drugs have.

"We see lots of [rip-offs] and violence with drug trafficking, and you will see
a rise of that in tobacco, too. As volume and money go up, the stakes get
higher. And certainly, a concern of ours is violence will spill out of this,"
Turk said.

Alleged gun-running and terrorist-loving ex-Stuyvesant HS teacher Theo
Burroughs, busted in a sting two months ago, was trafficking in untaxed
cigarettes along with assault rifles and handcuffs, authorities said.

Still, state officials maintain the tax is worth it as an incentive for people
to quit - and the higher tariff makes up for the bootleg losses. Cigarette taxes
brought the state $139 million in October of this year compared with $108
million in October 2009.

While some smokers take advantage of tax havens on Indian reservations or
cheaper-tax states like New Jersey or Pennsylvania, plenty of New Yorkers just
need to go to their corner deli.

The Post bought an $8 pack of Marlboros on Tuesday from Top Tobacco Shop at 107
Clinton St. on the Lower East Side. The store already has a case pending before
the Manhattan District Attorney's Office after being busted with two cartons of
untaxed cigs on Oct. 27, and its license to sell tobacco was yanked.

A reporter handed over a $10 bill, and the clerk reached his hand through a
window near his counter and grabbed a pack stored outside.

The clerk handed over the contraband cigarettes, along with $2 change. The
Marlboros lacked any kind of tax stamp, indicating they came from either
overseas or an Indian reservation.

The clerk, Mohamed Ould Lemrabott, declined to comment when asked how he could
sell them so cheap.

"It appears some small retailers found it impossible to compete with tax-free
competitors because of their reliance on cigarettes to drive retail traffic,"
one tax-policy observer said. "They've created a climate of desperation. Five
years ago, 10 years ago, they wouldn't think of underhanded dealing."

In addition to buying the contraband cigarettes out of state or on reservations,
authorities are reporting a troubling rise in counterfeit cigarettes being
imported from overseas, especially China.

Another growing trend is forging tax stamps to make the contraband smokes appear
legal.

One of the ATF's largest local busts occurred in southern Brooklyn in 2007, when
it arrested eight men for importing Chinese-made knockoff cigarettes and seized
500,000 cases of smokes and $500,000 in cash.

The ATF, which has 10 officers in the New York City region - and just three to
four officers at any given time working on tobacco cases - is retooling to
address the expected spike.

"We are talking with state and local partners now of doing partnerships we
haven't done in years," he said.

On the state level, about 50 peace officers assigned to the New York State
Department of Taxation continue to do buy-busts of local bodega owners.

But the officers gripe that offenders often get off with little more than a
wrist slip.

For instance, Jiang Ailiang was busted for selling cigarettes with Virginia tax
stamps at a deli at 67 Eldridge St. for just $5 earlier this year.

But he was able to plead down to disorderly conduct in September and received
just four days of community service.

When The Post visited the store earlier this week, a reporter was told to "come
back tomorrow" for discounted cigarettes.

BUTTING OUT

Some big seizures of black-market cigarettes in the five boroughs this year,
according to the state Department of

Taxation and Finance.

Total cartons seized in NYC: 2,932

4 W. 183rd St.

BUSTED! - Abdullah Alsaidia,  caught delivering untaxed cigarettes to High Times
Grocery. Investigators seized 230 cartons of untaxed cigarettes.

4802 Ave. N

BUSTED! - Investigators seized 14 cartons of cigarettes with fake tax stamps at
Friendly's Deli. Owner Issa Musa charged with tax evasion and possession of
forged documents.

506 Richmond Terr.

BUSTED! - Investigators seized 39 cartons with fake tax stamps at Save Mart
Deli.

63-20 B'way

BUSTED! - Investigators found 17 cartons of cigarettes with fake tax stamps at
Queens Deli Express.

Manhattan: Total cartons seized  1,771

Bronx: Total cartons seized  473

Queens: Total cartons seized  253

Brooklyn: Total cartons seized  346

Staten Island: Total cartons seized  89

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smoker. (Alamy) Map. (Ben Parker) Smoker. (Alamy)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday

ALL SYSTEMS GO; RETURN OF 3 STARTERS BOLSTERS GIANTS' 'O'

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 605 words


Steve Smith said he's playing. Hakeem Nicks said he's playing. David Diehl said
he's playing.

It looks as if the Giants' offense is going to get three starters back for
Sunday's game in Minnesota.

"Like some Christmas presents," exclaimed Eli Manning.

It would be quite a haul for Manning if he gets back his two starting receivers
and left tackle, players who haven't been on the field together in more than a
month.

The Giants (8-4) have gotten by, scaling back their passing attack as they
replaced a two-game skid with consecutive victories over the Jaguars and
Redskins. And now, inside the climate-controlled Mall of America Field in
Minneapolis, Manning could have all his toys to play with.

Of the three, there's no question Diehl will return after missing four games
with a partially torn hamstring. Nicks' return is the most surprising, given
that when he came down with a lower left leg injury - compartment syndrome - in
the Nov. 21 loss to the Eagles, the initial timetable was that he would be out
three weeks. He has missed the last two games and is looking to shave one week
off the expected recovery time.

To alleviate the problem, Nicks needed to undergo a surgical procedure called a
fasciotomy, where his lower left leg was sliced open to relieve tension or
pressure. He starting running gassers on Monday, did about 20 minutes on the
treadmill on Tuesday and participated in more than half of yesterday's practice.

"Actually I did more than I expected, more than we all expected," an upbeat
Nicks said. "It felt good. My mentality is if I'm practicing, I'm playing. Go
hard out there in practice, hopefully they'll let me play. I'm pretty sure they
will."

If necessary, Nicks said he will play even if his stitches running down the
outside of his left leg haven't been removed.

"I just wrap it up," Nicks said. "I don't feel it at all, don't even notice it
at all."

Smith said he participated in the entire practice, though the Giants are listing
him as limited. No matter. Smith, out the past four games with a partially torn
pectoral muscle, said he felt "good" after practice.

He was asked, is that "good" with an exclamation point?

"With an exclamation point," Smith said. "Or two exclamation points."

Smith knows he will have to endure some pain and there are some motions with his
arms that he cannot do. But he wants in this weekend.

"I'm thinking I'm playing. The doctors, I don't know what they're going to say
but going off me, I feel like I'm going to play," Smith said. "I think Coach
[Tom Coughlin] wants to get me out there."

Diehl, who before this injury never had missed a game in his eight-year career,
didn't miss a single snap yesterday and will start at left tackle and go against
pass-rusher Jared Allen.

"I did every individual rep, every team rep, felt great so I'm playing, I'm
ready to go," Diehl said. "I'm playing, no question, no nothing, I'm ready."

The passing game has been fairly rudimentary without Smith and Nicks. That
should change.

"We can do a little bit more with our pass game," Manning said. "Guys will be
back at their natural positions; that helps out a lot when you go into your
multiple receivers."

Mario Manningham, the last man standing the past few weeks, couldn't contain his
excitement at having his mates back on board.

"Just can't wait to get 'em out there," Manningham said. "It's a difference.
They can't double all of us when we're out there. I always feel when all three
of us are out there we're the best receiving corps in the game right now, I'm
not just saying that, that's proven, we do a lot of good things when we're out
there."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEALTHY AGAIN:With the return of wide receivers Steve Smith and Hakeem
Nicks (inset) from injuries, the Giants' passing game will be primed for
Sunday's game in Minnesota. (Reuters & Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
