
                               1 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 23, 2004 Sunday

COLD SWEAT; CITY BIGS WARY OF CLIMATE-CHANGE CALAMITY

BYLINE: SAM SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 559 words


The disaster flick "The Day After Tomorrow" may be Hollywood fiction, but New
York scientists and government officials have launched a real-life investigation
into the potentially devastating impact of global warming on the city.

"There's enough science that has confirmed a rise in temperature and sea level,
and it would be imprudent not to know how the water supply and treatment system
will be impacted," said Christopher Ward, the commissioner of the city
Department of Environmental Protection.

In the movie, a change in ocean temperatures brings about sudden, devastating
weather conditions, including the flooding and then flash-freezing of New York
City.

According to a recent Columbia University study, similar disasters are possible
- the perpetual flooding of Wall Street, the disappearance of the Rockaways and
widespread heat-related deaths - although they are predicted to happen
gradually.

In fact, the study notes that the city has already experienced changes from
global warming, including a 2-degree rise in average temperatures and a 15-inch
rise in the ocean level since 1900.

Cynthia Rosenzweig, co-leader of the Columbia study, said the changing
environmental conditions were most likely caused by global warming.

"What we can say is the rise is similar to what [global warming] projections
predict," she said.

And it's only going to get worse, according to her research, with the city's
average temperature rising about 10 degrees and the ocean level by as much as
four feet by 2080 and flood-inducing "100-year storm" occurring every four
years.

That spells trouble for low-lying areas like lower Manhattan, Coney Island, the
Rockaways and the city's airports, which would regularly be under water, said
Rosenzweig.

"We are beginning to work with decision makers around the region to think about
how to address these changes," she said.

The DEP is studying how more frequent cycles of droughts and flooding will
impact the city's water system - including how to respond if sewage outflows are
submerged by the ocean, making them inoperable.

The DEP is also working with the European Union on a study of its reservoirs,
where shorter freezing periods will eventually impact water quality.

Other city departments are also addressing global-warming issues. The Department
of Design and Construction has developed guidelines for energy-efficient
buildings, which use less energy, ultimately cutting down on power plant
emissions.

And the Department of Citywide Administrative Services has developed programs to
cut down on emissions from city vehicles.

"While what's projected in the movie is extremely unlikely, if not impossible,
the problems that are projected for the region are of growing seriousness, and
we need to address them now," Rosenzweig said.

"The Day After Tomorrow" was produced by 20th Century Fox, which is owned by the
News Corporation, the same company that owns The Post.

A change in weather

Reality

Average temperature will rise by 10.2 degrees by 2080

Ocean will rise 4 feet by 2080

Devastating "100-year-storm" now every 4 years by 2080

Increase in deaths due to heat, air pollution and asthma

Hollywood

Snap-freeze to - 150 degrees

Ocean rises suddenly, sinking Manhattan

Inescapable, killer flash flooding

Huge, sudden deaths from freezing

Source: Columbia Earth Institute

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FREEZE FRAME: Chilling scenarios like flooded, frozen Manhattan in "The
Day After Tomorrow" have spurred city officials to take a look at the impact of
climate changes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 2, 2004 Monday

NEW YORK'S GREENHOUSE GASBAGS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 432 words


Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and city Corporation Counsel Michael Card ozo
must have too much time on their hands.

Two weeks ago, the two officials joined with attorneys general from seven other
states to sue five power companies - American Electric Power Company, the
Southern Company, the Tennessee Valley Authority, Xcel Energy and the Cinergy
Corporation - over carbon dioxide emissions.

Under a rather creative reading of "public nuisance" law, the suit - filed in
federal court here in Manhattan - contends that the five companies produce
carbon dioxide emissions that have contributed to global warming, an alleged
"public nuisance."

The plan is to try to force the companies through litigation to reduce
greenhouse gas emission.

While most kooky conspiracy theorists were going to see Michael Moore's
"Fahrenheit 9/11" this summer, apparently these lawyers preferred the
schlock-environmental disaster flick, "The Day After Tomorrow," which
essentially blames global warming for bringing about another Ice Age.

Cardozo, Spitzer & Co. make about as much sense.

First of all, as it can't be repeated enough, there is serious scientific
disagreement over what global warming is - or even if it exists. Earth's average
temperature has varied widely over the ages.

And to the extent the phenomenon does exist, its cause - whether by human
activity or nature - is even less clear.

There's significant evidence, for example, that variations in sunspot activity
is connected to climate change. (What a disappointment for Spitzer and Cardozo
should that turn out to be the case; who would they sue then?)

Now, it's not surprising that New York's attorney general would attempt such
litigation.

He's been finding novel ways to bring legal action - usually confined to Wall
Street and the financial houses - for several years.

The shock is that Cardozo - at the request of his boss, Mayor Bloomberg - would
become party to such a nutty suit.

New York City is the only municipality that chose to join in.

This lawsuit is a blatant case of attorneys general (usually referred to as
governors-in-waiting) - and one corporation counsel - recklessly over-stepping
their bounds and getting involved in an area of federal policy.

Similar such attempts have largely gone nowhere, and so the Greenhouse Gasbags
are now grasping at straws - thus the "public-nuisance" approach.

The true nuisance here is their cynical use of litigation to try to force policy
change that can't be brought about through honest, i.e. legislative or
private-sector, means.

It's the height of irresponsibility.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 16, 2004 Friday

CHILL OUT, AL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 183 words


Al Gore is such a loser.

He comes to town to niggle the   Bush administration about global warming - and
don't you know it turns out to be the coldest snap New York City has endured
since World War II!

Ha, ha, ha.

Look, we know and appreciate the difference between weather and climate.

We also understand that the planet has been growing progressively warmer -
beginning about 10,000 years ago, when Manhattan island was under a sheet of ice
almost one mile thick.

That glacier is long gone, though a few more days of wooly mammoth weather just
might get another one started.

But Gore's gripe has nothing to do with climate, anyway; it's all about
politics.

Yesterday, he complained that the White House hasn't done right by the Kyoto
treaty on global warming.

But he was the presiding officer of the United States Senate back in 1997, when
it voted 95-0 to reject the agreement on the not-unreasonable grounds that it
would wreck the American economy.

So if George Bush is against the Kyoto treaty, he is in bipartisan company.

Which sort of leaves Al Gore standing out in the cold.

Still.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 29, 2004 Thursday

HOT OVER GLOBAL-WARMING FLICK

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1627 words


A POLITICALLY-charged disaster movie about global warming is burning up the
George Bush campaign, while John Kerry backers hope "The Day After Tomorrrow"
will sway eco-conscious voters to their side.

The partisan swirl surrounding the $125 million thriller is underscored by Al
Gore's decision to hold a huge environmental rally just a few blocks away from
the May 24 premiere at the Museum of Natural History.

Directed by "Independence Day" helmer Roland Emmerich, "The Day After Tomorrow"
follows the onset of a new Ice Age just three days after the polar ice caps melt
because of smokestack and tailpipe gas emissions. The flick, which stars Dennis
Quaid and Jake Gyllenhaal, features the flooding and freezing of New York and
giant tornadoes ripping through Los Angeles.

In addition to the rally, hosted by Bush-bashing political group Moveon.org,
volunteers will be recruited to hand out global warming brochures titled "Could
This Really Happen?" at theaters.

" 'The Day After Tomorrow' presents us with a great opportunity to talk about
the scientific realities of climate change," Gore said in a statement to Daily
Variety's Gabriel Snyder. "Millions of people will be coming out of theaters on
Memorial Day weekend asking the question, 'Could this really happen?' "

While the ecological catastrophes depicted in the flick are nearly impossible to
imagine happening in the near future, it hasn't stopped the Bush administration
from treating the would-be blockbuster with caution.

The Times reported that NASA ordered its scientists not to comment about "Day"
because of fears that it could hurt Bush politically. Moveon.org executive
director Peter Schurman says "Day" is "the movie George Bush doesn't want you to
see."

Bush spokesman Terry Holt fumed: "It's typical of Al Gore to not be able to
separate fact from fiction. I think Gore's attempt at political mischief-making
is just an attempt to get attention for himself. People know what they're
watching is entertainment, and not grounded in basic scientific fact."

Florence Grace, a spokeswoman for distributor 20th Century Fox, said the film
"is meant to entertain audiences with a mix of spectacle and emotion. If it also
increases awareness and inspires audiences to take an interest in some of the
issues raised in the film, then all the better."

Rich get richer

SOME guys have all the luck. About 15 years ago, Ronald Winston bought a license
from the government of Sierra Leone to prospect for diamonds on land near the
town of Baomahun. "We're always looking for new sources," the head of Harry
Winston Inc. explained yesterday. But there were no diamonds to be found - just
gold. "We were very disappointed. I was like, 'Boo, hoo! What do I know about
gold. I'm not a gold miner.' " But now Winston has found a British partner,
Cluff, and has converted his prospecting license into an exploitation license
and is going to start mining operations. "We could have $400 [million] to $500
million worth of gold," Winston said.

Size matters

CITY Councilman Eric Gioia (D-Queens) celebrated his 31st birthday last night
with a movie and then a party at Lotus. The young pol was joined by his college
roommate from NYU, Morgan Spurlock, director of the documentary "Supersize Me,"
which chronicled how Spurlock ate nothing but McDonald's for weeks, gained many
pounds and harmed his health. Gioia went to the premiere in Chelsea and then
Lotus, where the cuisine is several levels above fast-food fare.

He's no neo-Con

ADD Arnaud de Borchgrave to the list of conservative Republicans who are
disaffected with President Bush. "I'll probably vote Democratic for the first
time in 40 years," the aristocratic journalist confided, citing Bush policies in
Iraq and Israel. De Borchgrave was at the St. Regis roof on Tuesday for a dinner
sponsored by United World Colleges, along with Queen Noor of Jordan, Shelby and
Gale Davis (they have donated $45 million to the charity), Vikram and Meera
Gandhi, Gillian Fuller, Mark Rice, Barbara de Portago and Richard Turley. Serena
Boardman, who was 35 minutes late taking her seat next to Prince Pavlos of
Greece, said she'd gone to the Regency by mistake.

All the news that's fit to feed

THE Times is getting awfully chummy with the notables it covers. First,
Washington bureau chief Philip Taubman and his wife, Times reporter Felicity
Barringer, had Condoleeza Rice over for dinner. And last week Lynn Hirschberg
threw a party for celeb couple of the moment Sofia Coppola and Quentin
Tarantino. "Lynn had a dinner for them, Bill Murray and magazine editor Gerald
Marzorati a week ago," our source tattles. "Lynn has to cover these people, yet
she's now trying to be their best friend?" The Times has always been a bit
star-struck. Executive editor Bill Keller was so psyched to go to the Oscars
this year, he and his wife couldn't stop talking about it in January. "Bill's
wife kept bragging about their good seats, when really, they shouldn't have been
there at all," said another spy. A rep for the paper confirmed the Hirschberg
party and added: "In the wake of Lynn's story on Ms. Coppola, they have become
friendly and Ms. Coppola will be photographing . . . for our magazine. Ms.
Hirschberg is now an editor-at-large for the magazine, and a significant part of
her job is to mingle with people in the Hollywood and fashion worlds, to bring
us ideas and stories. That's part of Mr. Marzorati's job, too."

Sightings

ANNA Wintour of Vogue and her assistants getting their spring tans at Brazilian
Bronze in SoHo . . . STEPHON Marbury, who sipped champagne, and Vin Baker, who
had soft drinks, at the Sue's Rendezvous strip club in Mount Vernon, where they
spent several thousand dollars tipping the girls . . . NAOMI Campbell leaving
Barbuto in a huff after the hostess refused to seat the supermodel because she'd
arrived with five friends instead of four. "The hostess was either really
stuck-up or really dumb," said our witness . . . HOWARD Stern and girlfriend
Beth Ostrosky leaving the launch of the Little Joe lingerie line by Gail Elliott
at Stone Rose and returning minutes later to retrieve the purse she left behind.

Down-sizing

FINALLY, a place where bite-size boldface names can rest their tiny heads. The
Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas is designing a "mini-suite" especially for
knee-high VIPs. The room will feature a miniature bed, desk, Jacuzzi and photos
of little luminaries like Tiny Tim (who wasn't tiny at all) and Verne "Mini-Me"
Troyer. Beetlejuice (above), the dwarf from the Howard Stern show, will stay
there next month when Stern broadcasts from Sin City, and "Little" Tim Loomis,
the 4-foot funnyman who appears in the hotel's "Beacher's Comedy Madhouse," will
bunk there afterward.

Vuitton vixen

FORGET Jennifer Lopez -the new face of Louis Vuitton is Scarlett Johansson, 19
(above). The super-hot actress is already the face of Calvin Klein fragrance.
Now she'll be dressed in Vuitton and be featured in the clothing and luxury
line's fall ad campaign. The star of "Lost in Translation" and "Girl With a
Pearl Earring" has a full slate of movies coming out, including "The SpongeBob
SquarePants Movie," in which she's the voice of Mindy. Reps for LV and Johansson
didn't return calls.

'Passion' fit in Paris

MEL Gibson might be even less popular in Paris than he is in Hollywood. Some
French theater owners are refusing to screen "The Passion of the Christ," and
the Union of Film Producers has come under fire because it hasn't called for a
ban on the picture, according to a report in Variety. The UFP actually issued a
statement backing the film's Gallic distributor, a Tunisian named Tarak Ben
Ammar, for his "attachment to the freedom of expresion and . . . making the
public the only judge of Mel Gibson's direction." That prompted at least one UFP
board member to resign in protest. Meanwhile, "Passion" has grossed more than $9
million in France since it was released three weeks ago, proving once again that
the public doesn't always agree with the elites who want to "protect" them with
censorship.

Jackie-watch

TINA Flaherty was inspired to write "What Jackie Taught Us" because she lived in
the same Fifth Avenue building as Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. The book launch
was Tuesday night at the Four Seasons with the likes of Susan Lucci, Joan Rivers
and Oleg Cassini. Friends of Flaherty recalled how she tried to celebrate her
birthday, which is on May 18, 10 years ago. Scores of reporters and
photographers camped out on Fifth Avenue as word spread that Jackie had left the
hospital and come home to die. She passed away on May 19. The camera crews
stayed for days.

She's free again

THE romance between Sharon Stone and entertainment lawyer Bernie Cahill is over.
Sources said Cahill is "stuck in his bachelor ways" and was freaked out by
Stone's insistence that he settle down. "Sharon wanted to get married again and
maybe have another kid," our spy said. "Bernie wasn't really into that." The two
had been seeing each other since January. But this is all news to Stone, whose
rep says they are still dating.

We hear . . . we hear . . . we hear

THAT Jason Lewis - the young hunk who ended up with Samatha in "Sex and the
City" - will go to the highest bidder tonight at Plaid at the Spring Fling
Bachelor & Bachelorette Auction to benefit the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society . . .
THAT Theory owner Andrew Rosen will be jetting to the Kentucky Derby to watch
his latest purchase, "Master David," run for the roses . . . THAT fashion's
Roberto Cavalli is pitching a network reality show. He'll be teaming up with
Cynthia Garrett in a search for the world's next big designer, with help from
clients like Beyoncé and Steven Tyler as judges. The winner gets an
apprenticeship with the House of Cavalli.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Brooke Shields takes a stroll through SoHo with daughter Rowan. The
moody mommy is writing a book about postpartum depression, "Down Came the Rain,"
due out next spring.   [Anthony Dixon/LFI] -Leonardo DiCaprio revs his engines
at a go- kart track at Six Flags Amusement Park in Santa Clarita, Calif. The
fun- loving actor was there with best pal Tobey Maguire and several friends.
[Ramey Photo] -Beetlejuice; Scarlett Johansson  -Brooke Shields takes a stroll
through SoHo with daughter Rowan. The moody mommy is writing a book about
postpartum depression, "Down Came the Rain," due out next spring.   [Anthony
Dixon/LFI] -Leonardo DiCaprio revs his engines at a go- kart track at Six Flags
Amusement Park in Santa Clarita, Calif. The fun- loving actor was there with
best pal Tobey Maguire and several friends. [Ramey Photo]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 8, 2004 Monday

FOR GORE, FEELING'S MUTUAL

BYLINE: RICHARD WILNER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 226 words


Al Gore is looking for your hard-earned investment dollar.

The former vice president is starting a mutual-fund management company that will
invest in companies that combine environmental friendliness and social
accountability with profitability, according to a published report.

Gore believes companies that are able to excel in all three areas hold promise
for greater investment return than traditional investments.

The company, to be called Generation Investment Management, will be based in
London and has an office in Washington. Gore is expected to devote 1 1/2 days a
week to the fund, but he admits to the Financial Times that the young company
might need more of his time.

Sustainability issues - that is, the combination of the environmentally friendly
and social-accountability camps - have been a favorite of Gore's for years.

Gore wrote the book "Earth in the Balance," chaired President Bill Clinton's
council for business and sustainable development and helped gain agreement on
the Kyoto protocol, the convention on climate change.

"Transparency, eco-efficiency, nurturing employees and managing long-term risks
are among the integral parts of a company's enduring capability to create
value," Gore told the paper.

"You can't properly value automobile stocks without considering long-term issues
such as carbon intensity," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AL GORE - Mutual fund start-up. (m)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 27, 2004 Monday

CAUTIOUS OPTIMISM - SEC STYMIED ON REFORMS AMID GREAT EXPECTATIONS FOR '05

BYLINE: Christopher Byron

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1308 words


The SEC seemed unable to rein in the white collar charlatans who had begun to
reappear on the scene.

A lot has happened in the half decade that has passed since the Dow Industrials
touched their all-time high of 11,908 in January of 2000, then began
pin-wheeling toward earth. And mostly, the news hasn't been great.

But from Martha Stewart to the unemployment rate to the war in Iraq, 2004 turned
out to be a year when America's glass was half full even when the evidence
suggested that it might actually be mostly empty.

On Wall Street, the market bottom that was touched in October of 2002 thereafter
gave way to an irregular and hesitant recovery, and as the last week of 2004
begins, the Dow has now erased more than 90 percent of its losses and stands at
10,827. Certainly the sorts of indicators that investors live by are once again
flashing green. More stocks are moving up than moving down, and more stocks are
setting new highs than new lows. Money is also moving back into mutual funds.

Corporate earnings are advancing, interest rates have stayed low, the run-up in
oil prices earlier this year has now abated, and the economy as a whole once
again appears to be tracking along the path of modest but sustainable growth
that characterized much of the Reagan era.

Yet viewed from a helpful distance, there is plenty to suggest that business
conditions haven't really improved or even changed much over the last year at
all. For starters, 2004 began with the Dow Industrials standing almost exactly
where the Average stands now - just slightly north of 10,500 - suggesting that
the stock market doesn't look to have rallied in the last year so much as simply
spun in a circle.

The trends in the underlying economy are no more encouraging. As 2004 began, the
unemployment rate had been inching downward for months, and now stood at 5.6
percent, giving rise to hopeful forecasts that the decline would continue as the
year progressed.

But within a month the rate was inching back up again, and by March unemployment
had risen to 5.7 percent, after which it wiggled back and forth, month after
month, within a tight range of just 3/10ths of a percentage point, to end the
year at 5.4 percent.

OF all the major trends in the economy, only inflation showed any real change,
and it was certainly not a welcome one, as the rate of consumer price inflation
climbed from 1.9 percent at the start of the year to 3.5 percent by year's end.

The change reflected the distorting impact of rising oil prices due to the
conflict in Iraq as well as supply disruptions from offshore drilling rigs in
the Gulf of Mexico. But economists were less convincing when they argued that
the "core" inflation rate (which leaves out price changes for energy and food
and has been flat for years) was the preferable measure of inflation's real
direction.

Food and energy are obvious necessities of life and have to be purchased and
paid for by consumers somehow - no matter how high their prices may rise. And in
the last eight weeks of the year, the economists got a blunt lesson in kitchen
table economics as consumers did what they always do when faced with such a
choice and paid for the necessities by cutting back on the frills and extras -
with the result that the holiday shopping season turned out to be a
disappointment for all but retailers of high-end luxury goods.

Over everything hovered the war in Iraq. Though the year saw doubts begin to
spread about the wisdom of the arguments that the administration had put forth
to justify the invasion in the first place, voters overwhelmingly rejected the
unconvincing "quick victory and we're out of there" nostrums of Democratic
presidential hopeful John Kerry.

On the war front as elsewhere, the year ended pretty much where it had begun,
with the nation gathered stoically behind a policy in which the body count and
budget outlays kept climbing while the promised payoff remained elusive.

Against that backdrop, Americans took their good news - and their heroes -
wherever they could find them, even when the heroes came adorned with little
more than fame. In March, lifestyle promoter Martha Stewart was convicted in
federal court of lying twice to government agents investigating the
circumstances surrounding her sale of some stock in a biotech company called
Imclone Systems Inc. that was headed by a friend.

Though the evidence against her was both obvious and overwhelming, Martha was
able to parlay the notoriety of her situation into a level of fame she had never
before achieved, elevating herself behind bars to almost mythic stature as a
victim of sexism on Wall Street and in business.

In the process, her stock exploded, soaring 400 percent in value as reports
circulated that Martha would soon be signing to star in a new "reality TV"
series produced by Mark Burnett, the creator of Donald Trump's wildly successful
"The Apprentice" show on NBC.

IN a similar spirit, the year saw the odd resurrection of a disgraced former
Merrill Lynch & Co. stockbroker named Henry Blodget, who had been flushed from
the business at the turn of the decade for promoting worthless dot.com stocks to
his clients during the blowout phase of the late 1990s bull market.

At the start of 2004, Blodget returned to the public eye, at least momentarily,
as a "commentator" to cover the Martha Stewart criminal trial for the Slate.com
website. When asked why Slate would hire a confessed shyster who'd been paid $12
million a year by Merrill Lynch to push trash stocks into the portfolios of the
firm's clients, an editor answered that in Slate's judgment, Blodget "got kind
of a bum rap" and deserved a second chance.

Some public figures were less lucky. Not even the reflected glory of standing by
the side of President Bush atop the smoking rubble of the World Trade Center on
Sept. 11, 2001 was enough to save former New York City Police Commissioner
Bernard Kerik from the ghosts of his own past when the President nominated him
as Secretary of Homeland Security.

No sooner was news of Kerik's nomination made public than the headlines were
brimming with reports of a past filled with shady business partners and fishy
looking deals.

And anyone who turned up in the crosshairs of New York State's indefatigable
Attorney General, Eliot Spitzer - from the ex-chairman of the New York Stock
Exchange, Richard Grasso, and his sidekick Kenneth Langone, to chairman Jeffrey
Greenberg of the Marsh & McLennan insurance company - could count on life
becoming hell from that moment onward.

Yet elsewhere on the regulatory front, rising stock prices took the steam out of
the push for market reform, and as the year drew to a close, SEC chairman
William Donaldson found himself under attack from Republican business circles
for pushing a modest package of market reforms. Among them: requiring hedge
funds to register as mutual funds under the Investment Act of 1940.

Beset by these and similar distractions, the SEC seemed unable to rein in the
white collar charlatans who had begun to reappear on the scene as stock prices
revived.

Promoters appeared, hustling billion dollar companies that turned out to consist
of an answering machine in someone's den, or merely a post office box in some
rural Western town, and the SEC did nothing.

Two years after it raided, shut down, and filed a civil case against the New
York-based Lancer hedge fund operation as the largest hedge fund fraud on
record, the SEC has yet to bring its case to trial. And, the government has
twice lost related criminal cases involving evidence in the Lancer matter.

Such was life on Wall Street in 2004. What the year ahead holds, well, we'll all
just have to wait and see. Happy holidays.

---

A blind eye

A healthy stock market in 2004 may have had regulators ignoring problems in dark
corners of the financial world.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trading floor, Statue of Lady Justice  [NY. Post photo composite; AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 39 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 5, 2004, Monday

MARTHA'S LUCKY YEAR ; AS ECONOMY IMPROVES, JURY-POOL ANGER MAY BE WANING

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BYRON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 1383 words


The feds have begun interviewing Martha's former clients from when she worked as
a stockbroker.The feds are interviewing Martha's former clients from when she
worked on Wall St.Even prosecutors may be growing edgy about their case, given
the changing climate.

RONALD Reagan was right when he said that it helps to be lucky - and it is hard
to think of a better example at the moment than Martha Stewart.

Two years have passed since Martha stepped off her private jet at San Antonio
Airport, switched on her cell phone, and placed the one-minute phone call to her
stockbroker that initiated the stock trade that changed her life.

But a lot has happened since then. And with just two weeks left before the start
of her trial on obstruction of justice, conspiracy and insider trading charges,
the woman who once wrote of herself, "I do what I please, and I do it with
ease," is suddenly enjoying some quite unexpected good news - news that could
play a key role in winning her an acquittal.

It is obviously far too soon to even attempt to call the outcome of her trial,
which in a worst-case scenario could put her behind prison bars for close to 30
years and slap her with more than $1 million in fines if she's convicted on all
charges. A conviction on even the least serious of the five charges against her
- making false statements to a federal agent - would bring her five years in
prison and a $250,000 fine.

But just as the improving economy is giving a huge and largely unanticipated
lift to Republican fortunes in this presidential election year, so too has the
brightening economic outlook and rising stock market changed the entire
environment in which Martha's trial is poised to unfold.

WHITE-collar criminal cases are by their nature complex, and the evidence is
often ambiguous and subject to multiple interpretations. As a result, though
prosecutors don't often want to admit it, the outcome in these cases can wind up
depending on whether the jurors see the defendant, in some subtle and even
subliminal way, as a person who somehow cheated the system and thereby profited
financially from the sorts of setbacks the jurors themselves might have suffered
from amid a plunging stock market and a weakening economy.

But it is a lot harder to get a juror to kick that dog when stocks and the
economy have stopped declining and are once again rising.

That is the problem prosecutors now face in the Martha Stewart case, and they
aren't the only ones. A lengthening list of top corporate officials from
companies like Enron, WorldCom, Adelphia, Tyco and HealthSouth are currently
heading to trial in courts around the country for white-collar offenses of one
sort or another during the last bull market.

And all these cases will inevitably be influenced by the same basic question of
psychology.

Technically, the process of selecting a jury in the Martha Stewart case actually
begins tomorrow, when members of the jury pool are asked to fill out written
questionnaires for subsequent review by prosecutors and defense lawyers. Final
selection of individual members of the jury panel will take place in open court,
beginning Jan. 20.

Fearing that the next two weeks could develop into a media circus, with
reporters attempting to interview potential jurors, the judge in the case,
Miriam Cedarbaum, late last week issued a court order barring all prospective
jurors in the pool from talking to reporters or reading, watching or listening
to any media coverage of the case.

But once a jury is impaneled, the individual jurors are not going to be sealed
up like 12 people in a biosphere - they're going to go home every day after
adjournment, and every weekend as well. And they'll inevitably continue to be
exposed, throughout the entire course of the trial, to the same media messages
about an improving economy and a recovering stock market that they've been
receiving for months.

These will be hopeful, positive messages - about stock prices rising at the
fastest rate since 1999 and economic output ramping up at the fastest pace in
five decades; about interest rates at historic lows and the beginnings of a
decline in unemployment; about personal incomes rising and consumer spending
growing.

NO one can tune these messages out. They are part of the inescapable background
hum that Americans encounter every day of their lives - and with the Iowa
caucuses kicking off the official start of the presidential election campaign
exactly 24 hours before Martha's trial officially begins on Jan. 20, that
background hum is going to be louder and more insistent than ever.

The net effect of all this will necessarily be to make it more difficult,
emotionally, for jurors in the Martha Stewart trial to do as prosecutors want
and convict her for the deterrent effect that doing so will have on the behavior
of other CEOs. In effect, the unspoken question that will haunt the whole trial
comes down to this: If the market is recovering, and the economy is rebounding,
then what did these CEO people really do that was so terribly wrong anyway?

Prosecutors working for Manhattan's super-D.A., Bob Morgenthau, in the New York
State fraud and racketeering trial that is now under way against Tyco
International Chairman and CEO Dennis Kozlowski and his financial sidekick, Mark
Schwartz, have already run into exactly this problem.

Observers who are in the courtroom every day say prosecutors have been having
trouble getting the jury to follow such matters as the complex and tedious
ambiguities in Tyco's corporate bylaws - a subject that can't be avoided if
prosecutors are to make their case that Kozlowski ran Tyco like an out-and-out
racketeering enterprise.

By contrast, courtroom observers say defense lawyers seem to be winning points
with the jurors by stressing that Kozlowski's management of Tyco produced vast
wealth for shareholders and employees alike, and that relatively little of it
wound up with Kozlowski himself.

The case, which had originally been expected to be wrapped up by Christmas, now
looks likely to continue into February before being sent to the jury.

Meanwhile, federal agents in the Martha Stewart case last week went on what
looks to have been an 11th-hour hunt for any remaining tidbits of information
useful to the government, and began interviewing Martha's former clients from
when she worked as a Wall Street stockbroker more than 30 years ago.

Though they're certainly not likely to admit it, this suggests that even
prosecutors themselves may be growing a bit edgy about their case, given the
changing climate for bringing CEOs to justice. Several phone calls seeking
comment from officials on the matter were not returned.

Reflecting a new sense of optimism that Martha might actually have a chance in
this fight, shares of her New York Stock Exchange-listed company, Martha Stewart
Living Omnimedia Inc., have rallied nearly 15 percent over the last month, to a
Friday closing price of $10.16.

ANY fair-minded reading of the facts as set forth in the government's indictment
shows that Martha Stewart will not find it easy to defend her behavior. She is
accused of lying to investigators about her stock sale not once but on two
separate occasions; of conspiring with her stockbroker to cook up a phony story
to justify the sale; of altering her own office records to support the bogus
yarn; and of lying to the public about her actions to prevent the collapse of
her own company's shares.

But now the government will have to somehow persuade a jury of Martha's peers
that what she did was just as bad with the economy improving and stock prices
rising as it was two years ago, when the indicators were all pointing in the
opposite direction. It won't be an easy task.

* Please send e-mail to: cbyron@nypost.com

A good-bad thing

Jury selection begins Tuesday in Martha Stewart's trial stemming from her sale
of ImClone shares. Factors that could influence its outcome:

* Sympathy for the domestic diva is growing

* The feds are stepping up interviews in a search for dirt

* There won't be a verdict in the trial of ex-Tyco boss Dennis Kozlowski by the
time Martha's case begins

* Bulls have helped lift shares of Martha's company


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MARTHA STEWART.  Aubrey Reuben

           Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               8 of 39 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           January 7, 2004, Wednesday

STAFF LOSSES ROCK ROLLING STONE

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 198 words


Two key defections rattled Rolling Stone yesterday.

Robert Gregory, the hard-working publisher once profiled in a page 1 story in
the Wall Street Journal, resigned to join British publishing maverick Felix
Dennis as the group publisher of the American version of Maxim.

And Andy Cowles, the British art director who along with new editor Ed Needham
was a key architect of Rolling Stone's shorter, punchier article style, is
heading home to England.

He came to Rolling Stone from the U.S. version of men's magazine FHM.

Through a difficult publishing climate - and a brutal one for the recorded music
industry - Gregory still managed to bring Rolling Stone some ad page growth last
year.

Now he will try to do the same to Maxim, whose 2.5 million circulation has long
surpassed that of other men's magazines, but which has experienced an ad
slowdown in 2003.

Gregory called the Maxim brand "a massive cultural force, yet is still in its
infancy. The opportunity to take it to the next level is irresistible."

Wenner Media Chairman Jann Wenner seems to be taking the high road on the latest
defections. "More changes; life goes on," shrugged Wenner. "I embrace change."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               9 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 10, 2004 Tuesday

LAWBREAKERS, NOT LAWMAKERS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 255 words


In the wake of Assemblyman Roger Green's admission Thursday that he pocketed
thousands of dollars in taxpayer money by claiming phony travel expenses,
Assembly Speaker Shelly Silver has officially expressed concern.

"I am deeply troubled," the speaker assured folks.

That's a relief: At least one of the state's top three elected officials is now
on record as opposing blatant theft by . . . elected officials.

So what is it, exactly, that the "deeply troubled" speaker plans to do about
this horror of horrors, which so vexes him?

Convene a panel of Assembly members - that's right, Assembly members - to review
reimbursement policies for . . . Assembly members.

Because of those policies, supposedly, Green just couldn't stop himself from
liberating some . . . green.

What next - let the inmates at Sing Sing design new lockdown procedures?

Green himself is urging changes - like requiring detailed transportation reports
that even include the license-plate numbers of the cars used.

"It sure would have helped me," he said. He lamented "a climate where you can
make even honest mistakes."

Please.

There was nothing "honest" about what Green did. And if lawmakers were to
disclose their honest feelings (that'll be the day!), they'd say Green's only
"mistake" was getting caught.

Think about what Green - and Silver - are saying: If you make it too easy,
lawmakers are just bound to steal.

That is, they can't help themselves.

And only the certainty of arrest will keep them from committing crimes.

These are New York's lawmakers?

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 13, 2004 Friday

THE UNION VS. THE KIDS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 504 words


Randi Weingarten and the union she heads have essentially declared war on Mayor
Bloomberg.

A United Federation of Teachers advertisement charges that the mayor is going in
the "wrong direction" in current contract talks.

"The mayor and chancellor want to take away teachers' ability to do what they do
best - teach," says the ad.

Translation: Bloomberg wants change - but we think things are just fine.

But things aren't just fine.

Far from it.

The mayor, who won nominal control over the schools two years ago, now seeks to
win functional control - which means wresting it from the UFT.

Ostensibly, there are a lot of seemingly mundane and bread-and-butter topics at
issue: Bloomberg seeks a reduction in the number of unused sick days that can be
cashed in by retirees; more work days; an exchange of productivity gains for
salary hikes; bonuses for teachers working in low-performing schools, and the
elimination of sabbaticals.

Weingarten called the offer a "sham."

Which it most certainly is not.

It is about meaningful control.

While other mayors have demanded similar concessions, this is the first mayor
who has the statutory authority to integrate them into a coherent management
structure.

The point is to give school managers operational command of the school workforce
- a radical notion in New York, to be sure, but necessary if the public schools
are ever again to function properly.

Count on one thing, though: When Weingarten yelps, it's because her
institutional ox stands to be gored. Everybody believes in tough school
standards - until they start to bite.

So never mind the ads: They are not about the kids.

At the same time, Bloomberg himself needs to be faithful to the reforms he has
already made.

He promised "zero tolerance" on school violence.

But when a student who brought a 12-inch knife into his high school earlier this
week is welcomed back to class the very next day, as happened this week - well,
what does that say about the new policy?

We'd rather that kids who bring weapons to school be bounced out - all the way
to Rikers Island, if necessary.

As it is the weapons-toters are supposed to be suspended and placed in one of
the city's euphemistically named "second-opportunity" schools.

But this knife-wielding thug wasn't.

Why not?

Bloomberg needs to send a message - that he's serious enough about school safety
to fire whoever was responsible for this specific security breakdown.

No teacher can fairly be expected to teach in a climate of fear.

Similarly, no student can be expected to learn in such an environment either.

The upcoming contract negotiations are going to be very tough - but they have
the possibility of being some of the most significant in the city's history.

It's not simply about bargaining over union salary and benefits.

It's about whether New York's children are going to get a real opportunity to
learn in the days ahead.

Both Mayor Bloomberg and Randi Weingarten understand what's at stake.

Now they need to rise to the challenge.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 23, 2004 Monday

WORLD IS OURS - MILLAR TO BOMBERS: SOX WILL WIN IT ALL

BYLINE: Mike Vaccaro

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 650 words


" I honestly believe that we're going to win the World Series this year." -
Kevin Millar

FORT MYERS - Kevin Millar walked into the new season in much the same way he
walked away from the old one: quick with a quip, quicker with a laugh, putting
into words what every corner of Red Sox Nation believes with every relentless
ounce of its soul:

"I honestly believe," Millar said yesterday, "that we're going to win the World
Series this year."

And so it is on, for real, it is so on, because Millar says so, because Millar
was the perfect symbol of everything that made the 2003 Red Sox such an
enjoyable team to follow, even if you happen to view the world through
pinstriped lenses.

Millar was the one behind "Cowboy Up." He was the one featured in that cheesy,
goofy and utterly hysterical "Rally Karaoke Guy" video at Fenway Park, the film
clip he shot as a freshman in college lip-synching "Born in the U.S.A." He was
the one who led the five-man Red Sox procession from Fenway down Yawkey Way into
the Baseball Tavern on Boylston Street on the night the Sox clinched their
playoff berth, so the players could celebrate with the fans.

He was also the one who spoke with a refreshing burst of candor this offseason,
when it seemed the Red Sox were about to get Alex Rodriguez, who went on
television and said, "When you're talking about a guy who's going to be a leader
and be the face of the organization, that's Alex Rodriguez. Manny [Ramirez]
leads in the batter's box and Nomar [Garciaparra] prepares himself to play hard
every day, but you're talking about a leader in Alex Rodriguez.''

That's all done now, Millar says. He spoke to Garciaparra soon after those
statements, to clarify what he meant (although, to his everlasting credit,
Millar never once hid behind the standard "out of context" shield). He called up
Ramirez a few weeks ago, smoothed things out with him, and Ramirez said, using
his own nickname, "No sweat, Papi, we'll see you in a little while." Having
taken an iron to his relationships with two-thirds of the Sox' Big Three, Millar
can focus his attention and his needles on the other little matter at hand.

"The Yankees," he said, "have a terrific team, and I'm told they made a pretty
big trade in the last couple of days."

He paused, allowing the laugh track to settle.

"But I think," he said, "we still have the better lineup. I can't wait to get
after them. I really can't."

Millar is proof that you don't have to make showy, pricey transactions to change
the climate and the culture of a ballclub for the better. For years, the Sox had
rightfully earned the "25 men, 25 cabs" tag they wore like a millstone. Then the
Sox claimed Millar off waivers from the Marlins last February, days before he
was to report to the Chunichi Dragons in the Japanese League.

Millar contributed 25 homers and 96 RBIs to the Sox' cause last year, but more
valuable was the attitude and the energy he injected into the clubhouse. Nobody
on earth enjoys being a Red Sox more than Millar. He drinks in the team's rich
history like it's Gatorade on an August noon. He appreciates the fans' devout
loyalties. He talks like a man who'd like to pitch a tent in the Fenway Park
outfield on off-days.

Most of all, he not only understands the Red Sox-Yankees feud, he revels in it.

"When you're outside it, if you're a baseball fan, you understand that this is a
pretty hot rivalry," he said. "But once you're on the inside . . . it's just
something else. Something incredible. And it's going to get even bigger this
year."

Doug Mirabelli, the backup catcher, said the other day that the Sox would
abandon "Cowboy Up" as their motto, wanting to establish 2004 as a clean slate.
Millar's first response to that was, "Who's Doug Mirabelli?" Then, after
chuckling at that, he said, "Give me a little time. We'll figure something out."

Undoubtedly, he will. Sooner, rather than later.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEVIN MILLAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 16, 2004 Friday

DELTA MAY SOON BE RUNNING ON EMPTY

BYLINE: STEPHEN LYNCH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 496 words


Delta Air Lines, which is hemorrhaging money and executives, may be forced into
bankruptcy protection, analysts warned yesterday.

On Wednesday, the airline announced that it had lost $383 million in the first
quarter, an amount Chief Executive Gerald Grinstein described as
"unsustainable."

Meanwhile, Delta's chief financial officer, Michele Burns, announced yesterday
that she was leaving - becoming the fourth executive to defect in four months.

The brain drain is almost as bad as the cash problems, analysts said. Losing
executives hurts the airlines' ability to negotiate with labor unions and
institute a restructuring necessary to avoid bankruptcy.

"It raises questions about continuity at the top, their manpower and capacity to
deal with a very difficult financial situation," William Warlick, a senior
airline analyst at Fitch Ratings, told Reuters.

Grinstein only took over in January, after former CEO Leo Mullin stepped down.
Last month, Delta's president, Fred Reid, was hired away by Virgin Airlines and
has not yet been replaced.

Burns will take the CFO position at Mirant, a bankrupt energy supplier, saying
she was looking for a new challenge.

But perhaps the toughest blow was losing Terry Erskine, Delta's lead labor
negotiator, who last week announced his retirement.

Erskine was trying to woo a pilots union that remains far from Delta in contract
talks. The airline wants to cut the pilots' pay by 30 percent, while the union
has offered a 9 percent reduction.

For Delta, it's important to get a deal done quickly, as the pilots are
scheduled to receive a 4.5 percent pay raise May 1. Now, however, analysts
believe that negotiations may not be completed until at least August or perhaps
even next year.

Grinstein's threat of bankruptcy may be a way of pressuring the union. United
Airlines and U.S. Airways were able to negotiate concessions after they filed
for bankruptcy, and American Airlines received a better deal after it threatened
Chapter 11.

Delta is not alone in its troubles. Continental Airlines announced a loss of
$124 million for the first quarter yesterday, and analysts believe total losses
for the industry will be close to $1.5 billion for the period.

All the carriers are suffering from the high cost of fuel and an airline fare
war, as well as increased competition from smaller carriers like JetBlue.

But Delta's labor problems put it at a disadvantage. Delta has tried to adapt by
launching its own discount flier, Song, but the company is still far too tied to
high-end customers, said Nicolas Owens, an airline analyst with Morningstar.

"Because of the company's dependence on business travelers, earnings are very
sensitive to the business cycle," Owens said in a note.

"Most airline stocks - including Delta - are bad long-term investments," he
added. "Wild swings in share price can make for tempting speculative trades, but
over the long haul airlines have a terrible record for shareholders, and this
isn't about to change."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MICHELE BURNS Flying the coop.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 23, 2004 Friday

MCCAIN: BE NICE TO WEASELS

BYLINE: Post Wire Services

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 96 words


WASHINGTON - The United States "should be a lot more humble" and make a major
effort to repair ties with Europe, including reopening negotiations on important
issues like climate change, Sen.

John McCain said yesterday.

McCain (R-Ariz.) warned frictions with transatlantic allies could lead to
devastating "economic isolationism" between the two trading blocs.

McCain also warned in a speech that the United States is facing its biggest
foreign-policy test "in a generation" and said he believes the U.S. needs
"another full division," or about 10,000 more troops, in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 27, 2004 Tuesday

SEA CHANGE - A WEEK ON THE MED (OR THEREABOUTS) FOR UNDER $999? NOT A PROBLEM -
CHECK OUT THESE GREAT POST-LABOR DAY DEALS

BYLINE: The Editors

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1036 words


TO many New Yorkers, Labor Day means goodbye to the good times. Savvy travelers,
though, heave a sigh of relief come September - they know summer's end means the
end of exorbitantly priced hotel rooms and overcrowded airports.

This year, discover their secret: It's better to travel in the fall.

What better way to extend your summer vacation than by heading east, where the
climate stays mild and the streets are blissfully tourist-free. Best of all, if
you act quickly you can travel, start to finish, for under $999 a week.

Here are 10 of the best packages currently on the market. Each is priced per
person, based on double occupancy, and all except two are air-inclusive. Book
now: deals this good have a habit of disappearing.

MALTA

Where: St. Julian's

What: 6 nights from $499

When: Departures Nov. 1-Dec. 9

Info: gotoday.com

Malta is the queen of great deals and this package doesn't disappoint, offering
a choice of eight hotels for under $799. Try the Radisson SAS Bay Point, a
224-room number on the north coast with a great oceanfront pool. Airport
transfers and breakfast included at all hotels. There's a Saturday deadline to
book.

*

Where: Sliema

What: 6 nights from $939

When: Departures Sept. 1-Oct. 31

Info: ameliainternational.com

The prices aren't quite as nice, but there's no fast-approaching deadline, and
this early fall package does baby buyers a little more than Go Today's, with a
local host on site at the Kennedy Nova Hotel(rooms with balconies!) to answer
your questions. Good for mid-week departures on Lufthansa - extend your stay
with a trip to Cyprus, Sicily, or even Morocco or Tunisia. Based on
availability.

*

Greece

Where: Mykonos

What: 7 nights from $999

When: Departures Sept. 2, 4

Info: homerictours.com

Colorful Mykonos - and we mean that in every sense of the word - is on sale over
Labor Day. The package includes air and hotel, with accommodations at the
pretty, traditional (blue and white!) San Marco Hotel, which has a pool with sea
views.

Even better: Transport from Athens to Mykonos is included, as are daily
breakfast and shuttle bus rides into town. The hotel's located in the quieter
Houlakia area, good or bad depending on your tastes. Based on availability.

*

Where: Athens

What: 6 nights from $979

When: Departures Sept. 1-Oct. 31

Info: europeexpress.com

Athens isn't exactly Santorini, but what better time than post-Olympics to
travel to this recently revitalized city?Stay at the serviceable Stanley Hotel,
located off of Karaiskaki Square, right upstairs from the subway and just a
short hike from Constitution Square. Breakfast, taxes and charges included, book
by Aug. 19.

*

SPAIN

Where: Barcelona

What: 6 nights from $689

When: Departures Sept. 8-Oct. 31

Info: gotoday.com

The bustling capital of Catalunya attracts more than its share of crowds, yet
it's impossible to get down on this quirky metropolis, particularly when you can
go for less than $700. None of the hotels available for under $999 are going to
floor you, so thank goodness Barcelona will. Transfers and breakfast included.
There's a Thursday deadline, but at press time, GoToday told NYPTthat an
extension would be announced.

*

Where: Barcelona

What: 6 nights from $699

When: Departures Sept. 8-Oct. 31

Info: octopustravel-us.com

For $10 more than the GoToday deal, Octopus Travel pulls off an identical
package - minus the airport transfers. But, as usual, Octopus offers better
hotels. Even the Hotel Oasis, the budget option, has a pretty exterior. But
better to head over to the Princesa by the Arc Triomp ($925) or the Barcino, off
of Las Ramblas ($990). Based on availability.

*

Where: Marbella

What: 6 nights from $589

When: Depart Nov. 6, 13

Info: www.gate1travel.com

The region of Andalucia conjures up two dominant, if mixed, images: that of
whitewashed mountain villages, and the Cancun-esque atmosphere of the Costa del
Sol. But there's a third, less-ravaged part of Spain's southern region, and
that's the city of Marbella, which is a bit of class sprinkled in among the
fray. This air/lodging package puts you right on the famed Puerto Banus marina
at the Hotel Apartamentos Pyr Marbella, which have kitchenettes. Based on
availability.

*

FRANCE

Where: Nice

What: 6 nights from $649

When: Departures Sept. 8-Oct. 31

Info: virgin-vacations.com

Seven hotels are on offer in this air/lodging bundle to the South of France -
and not one is over $999 for the week. In other words, come fall, the
temperatures won't drop much, but those prices will tumble.

Of the seven, we recommend the compact, 32-room, family-run Hotel DeKent in the
center of town or, if you feel like splurging, the oceanfront Westminster for
$959.

At all hotels listed, breakfast and hotel taxes are included. Book by Thursday.

*

Where: Cannes

What: 6 nights from $529

When: Nov. 1-Dec. 15

Info: francevacations.com

For the cost of airfare to Paris you could be hobnobbing in Cannes. You'll stay
at the straightforward but nicely located Cannes Riviera Hotel on the Boulevard
d'Alsace (translation: by the water). Want to go sooner? The same package, from
Sept. 8-Oct.31, costs $879 based on availability at the Kyriad Hotel, which
isn't the best. In other words, be prepared to pay a little bit more for a
little bit less.

*

CRUISES

Where: Barcelona, Naples

What: 7 nights from $719

When: Depart Oct. 2, 9, 16, 23, 30

Info: cruisesonly.com

A Mediterranean cruise can mean a week on board an exclusive yacht, but it's way
more fun to hop one of the big pleasure palaces, we say. Royal Caribbean's
Splendour of the Seas' October sailings depart Barcelona and go to the South of
France and Italy. Airfare not included, based on availability.

*

Where: Genoa, Tunis,

What: 7 nights from $949

When: Oct. 2, 9, 16, 23, 30

Info: cruisesonly.com

An interior stateroom isn't usually recommended, but at this price, and for an
itinerary this hot, an exception should be made. The trip includes almost
everything that makes the Mediterranean great, from Sicily and Palma de Mallorca
to the South of France and Tunisia. The ship, the Costa Classica, departs from
and returns to a newly revitalized Genoa. Airfare is additional. Based on
availability.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -The narrow passageways of the Greek island villages are as tiny as
these prices on fall travel.   [Fraser Hall/Getty Images] -Make Nice: Color me
calmed down in the City's Old Town.   [Damir Frkovic / Masterfile] -Boats in the
harbor: Cruise through the old world.    -To wit, the question: does Marbella
look like southern California, or is it the other way around? Either way, it's
pretty.   [Alan Smith/Getty Images] -If the boats are brightly painted, we must
be in Malta.   [Alamy] -The narrow passageways of the Greek island villages are
as tiny as these prices on fall travel.   [Fraser Hall/Getty Images] -Make Nice:
Color me calmed down in the City's Old Town.   [Damir Frkovic / Masterfile]
-Boats in the harbor: Cruise through the old world.    -To wit, the question:
does Marbella look like southern California, or is it the other way around?
Either way, it's pretty.   [Alan Smith/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 26, 2004 Sunday

BOMB NUT IGNITES L.I. TERROR SCARE; EXPLOSIVES HUNT SHUTS BRIDGE

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE, JOE McGURK and LARRY CELONA

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 544 words


A disturbed Vietnam vet who had a cache of explosives in his junk-filled Queens
home sparked a major terror alert that shut down a Nassau County bridge for 11
hours, cops said yesterday.

No bomb was found, but Hippocrates Koutsoupakis, 56, was charged with planning
to use chemicals that could be mixed together to make a bomb.

Cops found flammable liquids, car batteries, a stun gun and a map of Kennedy
Airport in his van. They also found grenades and other explosive devices in his
Long Island City home.

Neighbors described the veteran, who served in the Air Force in Vietnam, as an
eccentric who wandered the neighborhood in black military fatigues or Ninja
garb.

His brother Spyros and sister Cathy, who live next door, said they hadn't spoken
to Koutsoupakis in a decade and communicated by notes.

The alert began at 6:30 p.m. Friday when a Nassau cop spotted Koutsoupakis'
white van parked beside reeds 300 yards north of the Atlantic Beach Bridge,
which links Nassau and Queens with the Five Towns area of Long Island.

As the cop approached the van, Koutsoupakis appeared, saying he had been
swimming and had gone into the reeds to change his bathing suit.

"In today's post-9/11 climate, something like this struck the officer as
suspicious and unusual," said Lt. Kevin Smith of the Nassau County police.

Also in the van were 15 duffel bags filled with electronic gear, cellphones,
magnets, rope, a computer and a laser printer.

Koutsoupakis, who works at a Home Depot in Flushing, Queens, was taken into
custody, and Nassau cops alerted the NYPD, the Joint Terrorism Task Force and
the federal Department of Homeland Security.

NYPD cops, divers, police boats and a Coast Guard cutter raced to the scene and
the six-lane, 1,173-foot bridge was closed at 11 p.m.

Cops checked every inch of the bridge for a bomb, with divers scouring the
underside.

As the hunt was going on, police raided Koutsoupakis' home on 29th Street in
Long Island City, Queens, finding grenades, grenade parts, mortar shells, fuses
and two flammable liquids, acetone and ether, police sources said.

They also discovered a dozen antennas sprouting from the roof - with cables
leading into the home's windows - an assortment of circuit boards and electronic
equipment.

But after hours of searching the bridge, cops found no bomb and concluded
Koutsoupakis was not a member of a terrorist group. The bridge was reopened at
10 a.m. yesterday.

"He does not appear to be involved in any organization or group," Smith said.

Still, he was charged in Nassau with criminal possession of a weapon with intent
to use, a B-felony that carries a penalty of six to 25 years behind bars.

Smith explained that if the chemicals and other devices were mixed together,
they could make a bomb.

NYPD investigators, however, said they believed Koutsoupakis was not a bomber,
but merely a disturbed man.

"I can't imagine him hurting anyone," said neighbor Sam Osman, 60. "The worst
thing about him is that he's a little off his rocker."

A neighbor, who identified herself only as Penny, said Koutsoupakis returned
from Vietnam a conspiracy theorist. About 15 years ago, she said, he bought "The
Anarchists Handbook," which describes ways to make bombs.

Additional reporting by Andy Geller

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAIDED: Investigators leave Hippocrates Koutsoupakis' Queens home,
where cops say he stockpiled explosives. (Seth Gottfried)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 10, 2004 Sunday

THIS WEEK'S DVDS

BYLINE: MICHAEL GILTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 88

LENGTH: 390 words


The Ren & Stimpy Show - First and Second Seasons

Four stars

Paramount; $38.99

Happy, happy, joy, joy! One of the most perverse, goofy and downright hilarious
cartoons arrives on DVD. Creator John Kricfalusi was fired after season two
(shame on you, Nickelodeon), so this is the only ''R&S'' you'll ever need. The
worthy extras: a banned episode, commentary by John K, storyboards and pencil
tests.

The Day After Tomorrow

One star

Fox; $29.98

A disaster film that's a disaster? How appropriate. Not even Dennis Quaid and
the disarming Jake Gyllenhaal can inject smarts into this bit of nonsense about
an instant climate change ravaging North America. One amusing moment shows U.S.
citizens streaming across the border to Mexico, but the rest is brain dead. The
extras - including commentary tracks and some deleted scenes - are remarkably
sparse for a special-effects flick.

The Battle of Algiers

Four stars

Criterion; $49.95

Director Gillo Pontecorvo's blistering, classic 1966 drama - shot like a
documentary - captures the insurgency of Algiers against French occupiers so
convincingly that militaries around the world have studied it for years. Suicide
bombings, struggles to tell friend from foe, torture in the name of good - it's
all here. The remarkable extras on this three-disc set include seven substantial
films (nearly five hours in total), including a making-of the film, a history of
the actual Algerian struggle and much more.

Taxi First Season/The Wire First Season

Three stars each

Paramount/HBO; $38.99/$99.98

An instant top 10 hit, "Taxi'' has always been more of a quiet, critic's
favorite than a popular juggernaut. It's a marvelous ensemble about New York
cabbies that endures because the characters are so human. Another quiet success:
"The Wire'' on HBO, which demands repeated viewing. Neither has extras and
neither needs them.

The Nutty Professor Special Edition

Three stars

Paramount; $14.99

It's a happy day indeed for the French, since Jerry Lewis' 1963 masterpiece
about a meek professor who becomes a suave ladies' man is out on DVD with
commentary by Lewis, two solid shorts and archival material. It's one of 10
Lewis films coming out on DVD today (including 1960's "The Bellboy'' and 1964's
"The Disorderly Orderly''), so Lewis fans should be sure to buy a lot of popcorn
and unplug the phone.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 29, 2004 Friday

WEATHER EVENTS PRODUCE FOOD CATAROPHE

BYLINE: RITA DELFINER

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words


If you're hungry for a BLT, get ready to shell out extra lettuce for the
tomatoes.

That's due to a shortage of a wide variety of vegetables because of the
hurricanes in Florida, a lot of rain in California and a persistent pest that
ruined 40 percent of Mexico's tomato crop.

In addition to tomatoes, you'll be paying more for climate-clobbered crops like
cucumbers, green peppers and zucchini.

"It's supply and demand," said Stephen Lucas, produce team leader for Whole
Foods Market at Columbus Circle, where Roma plum tomatoes yesterday were $2.49 a
pound, compared to $1.50 to $1.70 a year ago.

The store was charging $2.49 a pound for green peppers yesterday, compared to
$1.50 to $2 a year ago, Lucas said.

Even navel oranges from South Africa are more expensive than usual at $1.98 a
pound, he said.

"Generally, we might sell them at 98 cents or $1.29 a pound, but the demand is
greater than it used to be because no one has the Florida navel yet," he said.

Terry Rodes, vice president of produce at online grocer FreshDirect, says New
Yorkers "could likely see prices for tomatoes at some retail outlets twice the
normal price."

<cd0>He speculated that the higher prices might last "until early to mid-winter
when there may be enough of the new crop available that the price will go down."

Rodes said FreshDirect now offers 13 varieties of tomato ranging from $2.29 a
pound to $3.49 a pound, when normally they would cost $1.99 to $2.99.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 6, 2004 Saturday

YANKS GAMBLE ON LIEBER

BYLINE: GEORGE KING

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 621 words


Unable to reach a multi-year deal with Jon Lieber, the Yankees allowed their
second-best pitcher to jump into a very shallow free-agent pool yesterday when
they didn't pick up an $8 million option on the veteran right-hander.

The club believes Lieber, who was very effective in the second half and in the
postseason, isn't worth $8 million for the 2005 season but would like to sign
him to a two-year deal in the $11-12 million range.

That may be appealing to Lieber, but as agent Rex Gary explained Thursday, the
climate of negotiations changes since other teams will have a chance to woo the
34-year-old hurler. Expect the Mets, Red Sox and Rangers to be among the lengthy
list of teams showing interest.

"It's a risk," GM Brian Cashman said of letting Lieber become a free agent. "We
tried to do [a multiyear deal], but I don't think they believed we wouldn't pick
it up. They wanted to see if we were bluffing or not."

Signed to a two-year deal worth $3.5 million prior to the 2003 season even
though the Yankees knew Lieber wouldn't be ready until this year due to Tommy
John surgery, the move paid off when Lieber overcame a slow start to post a 14-8
record and 4.33 ERA in 27 starts. He was 1-1 with a 3.43 ERA in two October
outings and beat the Red Sox, 3-1, in Game 2 of the ALCS.

Lieber, who went 7-1 in his final 10 starts and posted a 3.21 ERA, gets a
$250,000 buyout. The Yankees had to decide by midnight tonight to pick up the
option.

With George Steinbrenner, Joe Torre and Brian Cashman wanting Mel Stottlemyre
back, the veteran pitching coach is expected to inform the team of his decision
this weekend following a hunting trip. Stottlemyre's friends are split on him
wanting a raise from the $450,000 he earned last year when he was believed to be
the highest-paid pitching coach in the big leagues.

"We have to wait until he comes out of the woods," Cashman said.

As far as who replaces Willie Randolph as Torre's bench coach, the favorite is
Joe Girardi, with Chuck Cottier, an advance scout for the Yankees and a former
Seattle manager, as the fallback option. The decision is expected early next
week.

"I wouldn't say," Cashman said when asked if he had discussed the job with any
candidates.

In other news, the Yankees and other organizations reacted with a yawn to Scott
Boras saying Carlos Beltran wants a 10-year deal. The Yankees are expected to be
major players in the Beltran chase since they need a center fielder and the
switch-hitting Beltran is the jewel of the free agent class who could be looking
for $20 million a year. However, the Yankees are among many teams that believe
Beltran won't sign until January and won't get more than a six-year deal for $14
million per.

"That's Scott," a team executive said. "It's going to be a long winter."

Houston, where Beltran finished the season, and the Cubs are interested with the
Yankees.

As for the Yankees' pitching staff, the club must be ready to dive into the
free-agent pitching pool and put together trades to bolster the rotation. That's
because its rotation today is Mike Mussina, Kevin Brown, Javier Vazquez and Brad
Halsey, with Lieber and Orlando Hernandez free agents.

Of course, it won't look like that in February since the Yankees will be
involved with free agents Pedro Martinez, Eric Milton and Carl Pavano, whose
agent badgers the Yankees daily. They are also expected to see if Randy Johnson,
Ben Sheets or Tim Hudson is dealt.

Discussions between the Yankees and Rockies concerning Kenny Lofton have broken
off because the Yankees have no interest in taking catcher Charles Johnson ($9
million) in return for Lofton ($3.1 million). The Rockies like Lofton but want
the Yankees to pay all of the $3.1 million.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FREE TO CHOOSE:Yankees didn't pick up option on Jon Lieber even though
he delivered during sec´ond half of last season.  (New York Post: Charles
Wenzelberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 6, 2004 Saturday

CURTIS CARRIES ON ; WEATHERS LATE-SEASON CONDITIONS

BYLINE: EVAN GROSSMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 456 words


Like the postman, Curtis Martin does not let the elements deter him from the
swift completion of his appointed rounds. As a matter of fact, the worse the
weather gets, as it's beginning to do, the more powerful Martin seems to become.

Seven of Martin's top 11 career rushing performances have come after Nov. 1, a
bracket of the football calendar when conditions worsen and the sting of contact
is magnified. And each of those seven games took place in cold-weather cities
with outdoor stadiums.

"I'm used to it," Martin said yesterday, wearing short sleeves when many of his
teammates wore long ones. "It's part of the game. I don't like to use
circumstances as an excuse to not do well. I always look at it like an
opportunity to do better. And hope that the other people don't do as well."

Just last year, Martin had his best game of the season in a 174-yard output on
Dec. 14 against the Lions. In 2002, in the brutal December chill of Chicago, he
ran for 127 yards. In 2000, Martin stamped 203 yards on the Colts on Dec. 3 at
the Meadowlands. Tomorrow, the Jets travel to Buffalo, where the weather and the
defense are equally cruel, and the running game will be vital to Gang Green's
success.

"It's a challenge," said Martin, who excelled in college at Pittsburgh and then
in New England's unpleasant climate with the Patriots before coming to the Jets.

Historically, tackling deteriorates in the hard-weather months of November and
December, but so, too, does ball security. It's an aspect of the game Herman
Edwards brings to the forefront every year when the leaves begin to change, and
his place in the record book is rooted in it.

"It's a mental thing, it really is, at the end of the day," Edwards said. "How
do you function in it?"

Under Edwards, the Jets are 10-2 in November, with the best winning percentage
in NFL history for that month. They have proven to be mentally tougher than
their opponents. And with Martin carrying the load, they are that much more of a
force when the wind picks up and temperatures dive.

"The running game becomes a big, big deal when you're a team that's a northeast
team because of the weather conditions," Edwards said. "That's why I've always
said if you play in these conditions you've got to have a good runner, got to be
able to run the ball and you've got to be able to stop the run.

"That's the mindset I've always had and I always preached here. Maybe that's
helped us in November. Maybe that's why we have the record we do. We don't turn
the ball over. We still tackle pretty good in November. We don't do the things
that other teams do, not that our players are better than anybody else. It's
just a mindset."

WEATHER FORECAST

Jets at Bills

Showers   55 degrees  wind

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUNNING HOT: Curtis Martin (28) kept his history of strong games after
Nov. 1 alive Monday night when he torched Dolphins for 115 yards rushing and a
TD in Jets' 41-14 rout.  (N.Y. Post: Charles Wenzelberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 6, 2004 Saturday

BOMBERS LET LIEBER GO FREE

BYLINE: GEORGE KING

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 409 words


YANKEE NOTES

Unable to reach a multi-year deal with Jon Lieber, the Yankees allowed their
second-best pitcher to jump into a very shallow free-agent pool yesterday when
they didn't pick up an $8 million option on the veteran right-hander.

The club believes Lieber, who was very effective in the second half and in the
postseason, isn't worth $8 million for the 2005 season, but would like to sign
him to a two-year deal in the $11 million to $12 million range.

That may be appealing to Lieber, but as agent Rex Gary explained Thursday, the
climate of negotiations changes since other teams will have a chance to woo the
34-year-old Lieber. Expect the Mets, Red Sox and Rangers to be among the lengthy
list of teams showing interest.

"It's a risk," GM Brian Cashman said of letting Lieber become a free agent. "We
tried to do [a multiyear deal], but I don't think they believed we wouldn't pick
it up. They wanted to see if we were bluffing or not."

Signed to a two-year deal worth $3.5 million prior to the 2003 season even
though the Yankees knew Lieber wouldn't be ready until this year due to Tommy
John surgery, the move paid off when Lieber overcame a slow start to post a 14-8
record and 4.33 ERA in 27 starts. He was 1-1 with a 3.43 ERA in two October
outings and beat the Red Sox, 3-1, in Game 2 of the ALCS.

Lieber gets a $250,000 buyout.

*

In other news, the Yankees and other organizations reacted with yawns to agent
Scott Boras saying Carlos Beltran wants a 10-year deal. The Yankees are expected
to be major players in the Beltran chase since they need a center fielder and
the switch-hitting Beltran is the jewel of the free agent class who could be
looking for $20 million a year. However, the Yankees are among many teams that
believe Beltran won't sign until January and won't get more than six years at
$14M per.

"That's Scott," a team executive said. "It's going to be a long winter."

As for the Yankees' pitching staff, the Bombers will be involved with free
agents Pedro Martinez, Eric Milton and Carl Pavano, whose agent badgers the
Yankees daily. They are also expected to see if Randy Johnson, Ben Sheets or Tim
Hudson can be dealt. . . .

Discussions between the Yankees and Rockies concerning Kenny Lofton have broken
off because the Yankees have no interest in taking catcher Charles Johnson ($9
million) in return for Lofton ($3.1 million). The Rockies like Lofton but want
the Yankees to pay all of the $3.1 million.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday

PLENTY OF CASH, NOT ENOUGH WS

BYLINE: Jay Greenberg

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 101

LENGTH: 625 words


THE KNICKS were blown out by 34 in the home opener, and Isiah Thomas couldn't
just do nothing, so he sent away the do-nothing assistant Lenny Wilkens
considered his right arm.

Make no mistake, Brendan Suhr brings more brainpower to the bench than did
72-year-old Dick Helm. Make no mistake, too, the Knicks boss now thinks he made
one hiring Wilkens, which is just fabulous 45 games into the coach's reign, with
two more guaranteed years and millions to go in a mindless contract for which
Thomas was responsible.

He couldn't go on with Don Chaney. And when negotiations with Mike Fratello
broke down, Thomas took Wilkens - another client of Fratello's agent. The Knicks
replaced one coach whose team wasn't working hard for one who never has worked
his teams hard.

The intent was to have Stephon Marbury bond with an old point guard. Isiah
really posted himself as just another in a long line of Garden bosses who could
throw good money after bad.

Of course, there's always more coming from the pile that will be needed to pay
off Wilkens. And no reason yet to believe that this team ultimately is in better
managerial hands just because Thomas has managed to make himself look so busy in
comparison to inert Scott Layden.

After Marbury (packaged by since-reborn Phoenix with Penny Hardaway) was
acquired in a contract absorption only the Knicks could handle, all Thomas has
done is dump flawed players for other flawed players.

Either a lot of teams screwed up badly letting Trevor Ariza slip to the 43rd
pick this June, or we'll learn why they didn't. Giving Thomas preliminary credit
for that, his Knicks are only a playoff team in a conference thinner than the
ice upon which Wilkens stands.

"I won't coach the Knicks," Thomas said last night after Wilkens insisted he and
his boss have suffered no division, before the Garden was reminded by the Sixers
that there will yet be plenty of wins in the Atlantic Division. And we believe
Thomas, too, since the Knicks - with these centers, this starting small forward,
this wavering defensive ethic - aren't anywhere close to being a team that an
egotist like the Knicks President of Basketball Operations would suffer on a
bench.

The Knicks don't have a real power forward, only Mark Aguirre last night trying
to power himself forward to the front row of the bench, and bristling when Suhr,
the new guy with a reputation for Machiavellian behavior that gets old fast,
refused to budge. Just the kind of staff that helps a head coach do his best
work, for sure.

One of these guys probably will next coach the Knicks for the same reason Thomas
won't, which is the same reason Phil Jackson won't. They can't succeed big with
this team, unless you call success 43 or 44 wins, which have become good for
this place, not a place anyone not beholden to Isiah Thomas for a job would want
to serve.

If Helm had no function beyond keeping Lenny company, that was already obvious
by summer. Thomas shouldn't have needed one humiliating loss to think he could
do better, with another of his own guys, of course.

Wilkens has no confidants remaining in the same organizational-defeating climate
of distrust endured by Chaney at his end. If the intended message was to put
people on notice, it's a little late in Lenny's fourth quarter to get him to
change, and an utter joke to think that millionaires on long-term contracts will
be sobered by a Steinbrenner-style firing of the most expendable guy in the
house.

The only real message sent to the players - the vast majority of whom play for
themselves and the team, almost never a coach - is that Wilkens is in trouble,
never a healthy message. Suhr had better prove shrewd at more than just politics
to make this more than just your basic emasculation.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPERIOR COURT: Forward Trevor Ariza drives down court during Knicks'
96-88 win last night over Philadelphia. Ariza scored 14 points in 21 minutes.
[Anthony Causi]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday

FIRING ASSISTANT ISN'T THE SOLUTION

BYLINE: Jay Greenberg

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 101

LENGTH: 603 words


THE KNICKS, new and improved in Isiah Thomas' mind, got blown out by 34 in the
home opener, and the man who brought you Tim Thomas couldn't just do nothing,
could he? So he sent away the do-nothing assistant whom Lenny Wilkens considered
his right arm.

Make no mistake, Brendan Suhr brings a lot more brainpower to the bench than did
72-year-old Dick Helm, and also make no mistake that Suhr's hiring is a major
Thomas concession that he erred in hiring Wilkens. Which is just fabulous 44
games into the coach's reign, with two more guaranteed years and millions to go
in a mindless contract Thomas can't pin on the previous regime.

For good reasons, he couldn't go on with Don Chaney, and the time wasn't right
for Thomas to coach the team himself. So he reached high onto the shelf, past
the mothballs, first for Willis Reed, then, after negotiations with Mike
Fratello broke down, even further back for his agent's other suggestion,
Wilkens. Thus did Thomas replace one coach whose team wasn't working hard for
one who never worked his teams hard.

Thomas, wanting to give Stephon Marbury an old point guard with whom he could
bond, posted himself as another in a long line of Garden bosses who could throw
good money after bad, shuffle bad decks, and get celebrated for winning nothing
more than a couple of fast hands.

If the infrastructure Glen Sather brought to the Rangers has impressed Jim Dolan
so much (any structure at all would look good after Neil Smith) to make the
hockey GM immune to all his bad decisions, you have to wonder what the Garden
boss thinks about a Knicks boss seeming to run an operation from a hip pocket.

Of course, there's always plenty more money coming from the pile that will be
needed to pay off Wilkens when he's finally fired by Thomas. And there's no
reason yet to believe this team ultimately is in better hands just because he
has managed to make himself look so busy in comparison to inert Scott Layden.

After Marbury (packaged by since-reborn Phoenix with Penny Hardaway) was
acquired in the kind of contract absorption only the Knicks could handle, all
Thomas has done is dump Layden's flawed acquisitions for more flawed
acquisitions. The Knicks are only a playoff team, not a real contender, in a
conference that might be thinner than a New York fan's patience or the ice upon
which Thomas wants the coach he invested in unnecessarily to stand.

If Wilkens didn't want to come as an interim, then find one and go after
somebody better at the end of the season. Or coach the team yourself for the
rest of the season to know for sure what you are trading, not that Thomas would
ever put himself out there with a team of little promise.

If he is waiting to put himself in the best possible position to succeed, he
owes the same to the coach he hires. If Helm had no better function than keeping
Wilkens company, that was already obvious over the summer, and Thomas shouldn't
have needed one humiliating loss to realize he could do better, with another of
his guys, of course.

Wilkens has no confidants now, no reason to trust his bosses in the same old
climate of distrust and fear endured by Chaney at the end. If the intended
message was to put people on notice, it's a little late in Lenny's fourth
quarter to get him to change, and an utter joke to think millionaires on
long-term contracts will be sobered by a Steinbrenneresque firing of the most
expendable guy in the house.

The only message being sent to the players is that Wilkens is in trouble.
Because the vast majority of pros play for themselves and the team, almost never
for a coach, there is no value in it.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 23, 2004 Tuesday

ECONOMIST SAYS DON'T BET AGAINST DOLLAR - IT'S STRONG

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 555 words


DR. Gloom isn't particularly gloomy these days.

Henry Kaufman earned that nickname during the 1980s when his pronouncements as
chief economist at Salomon Brothers about things like inflation and regulation
often rattled the financial markets.

He was, in fact, probably the most influential person on Wall Street at that
time. And the most feared.

I've kept in touch with Henry over the years and last week went to his office on
Madison Ave. to ask his view about some of the gloom currently pervading the
market.

The dollar is reaching all-time lows against the euro and there seems to be no
plan in Washington to stop the decline.

Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan shares my concern. Last last week he said foreigners
might not continue to find the U.S. a hospitable investment climate. Here's what
Kaufman had to say on this and other issues:

Me: Do you think the dollar's fall against the euro is serious? Is the euro
becoming the predominant currency?

Kaufman: No, the euro is not and will not become the predominant currency soon.

Me: Why?

Kaufman: Among other reasons, there is no political cohesion that really
supports the euro. It's so far a conglomeration of countries that have banded
together partly for economic reasons. And there is no central government that
really runs the euro.

Me: So people are really more comfortable with the U.S. and the dollar.

Kaufman: The euro is not yet large enough to provide a broad liquidity base for
world finance and commerce.

And I believe that when it comes to push and shove there isn't enough confidence
in the currency itself over a longer term.

Me: You use the word "soon." Will the time ever come?

Kaufman: I am not convinced that it will ever happen that the euro will become
the key reserve currency.

Me: Is there another currency, like the yen, that could?

Kaufman: I don't believe that the yen will ever be the key reserve currency.

Me: So all we have is the dollar.

Kaufman: Maybe, in the distant, distant future - with massive structural changes
- it could be the Chinese currency. But that's far off.

Me: Yet the dollar keeps falling. So there's obviously a lack of confidence in
the dollar right now.

Kaufman: Well, the fall in the dollar has not been dramatic. It has been
moderate, for the time being.

And as you well know, while the dollar has declined in value, the American stock
market has been stable to strong and at the same time our interest rates - in
terms of intermediate to long-term interest rates - have actually fallen during
this time.

Me: How much more would the dollar have to fall for foreigners to panic?

Kaufman: Well, in order for foreign investors to be deeply concerned, there
would have to be a crack - meaning a dramatic fall in the value of the dollar in
a short time frame. Very,very sudden. And very dramatic.

Me: It's already had a pretty dramatic drop.

Kaufman: Well, but it hasn't been on a day-to-day, or week-to-week basis that
you could call this a break in the value of the dollar.

Me: Is it important for us to get the deficit under control?

Kaufman: I think it's important for us to try to get it under control over the
long term. I think it's very dangerous.

Me: Are you talking about the trade deficit or the budget deficit?

Kaufman: Both deficits. Over the longer term I think it's very dangerous.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALAN GREENSPAN Fed boss.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday

WINTER'S FIRST BITE HITS CITY - BITTER WIND AND TEMPS NEAR FREEZE

BYLINE: BILL HOFFMANN

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 226 words


Freezy does it!

Bitter cold has blown into the Big Apple this week, and today's temperatures
will hover in the low 30s, just above freezing.

Northwest winds of 10 to 15 mph will make it feel 10 degrees colder, forecasters
say. Tonight it will be in the low to mid 20s.

"This is just a return to more winter-like temperatures, following the milder
days we've had," said Mike Silva, a meteorologist with the National Weather
Service.

The normal temperatures for this time of year are highs around 43 and lows
around 32 - but New Yorkers will see them plummet 10 to 15 degrees lower the
next few days.

Things will improve slightly tomorrow with temperatures in the low 40s, and
around freezing at night.

Sunday could see our first taste of snow, with a 40 percent chance of
precipitation.

As the first signs of winter push into the Northeast, Cornell University
researchers have some good news for fair weather fans - spring is coming a week
earlier than it did 40 years ago.

David Wolfe, a plant ecology professor at Cornell whose research will be
published in a forthcoming issue of the International Journal of Biometeorology,
said nature's calendar is changing due to an increase in greenhouse gases.

---

Today: 34 degrees - Cold and sunny

Tomorrow: 46 degrees - Sun and clouds

Friday: 48 degrees - Sun and clouds

Saturday: 44 degrees - Sun and clouds

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REAL COOL: Ashanti was feeling chilly at a Manhattan shop opening
yesterday. More on Page Six.  [Zack Brian/Gamma]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 19, 2004 Sunday

THE CHOICE ROYCE; FRENZY FOR 400G CONVERTIBLE

BYLINE: MATTHEW SWEENEY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 550 words


It's so new it doesn't have a name.

Nobody knows exactly when it will debut.

And it's not for sale yet.

But none of that has stopped 50 millionaires from plunking down deposits on a
newly designed,$400,000 Rolls-Royce convertible that will beunveiled sometime in
the next18 to 24 months.

The U.S. waiting list forthe car is already 50 namesdeep - and some of these
names are big, although the buttoned-up automaker isn't divulging them.

In the past, Jay Leno, Christina Aguilera, Shaquille O'Neal and Ben Affleck have
owned Rolls-Royces. Lawrence of Arabia ordered nine for his World War I desert
campaign.

"A Rolls in the desert is above rubies," Sir Larry said.

The new model, Rolls-Royce's first convertible since the 2002 Corniche, costs as
much as eight BMWs. But the price doesn't include the custom add-ons, like an
espresso machine in the armrest, said Evan Christodoulou, sales manager at
Manhattan Motor Cars.

"For money, anything you want can be done," he said.

Factory options, such as a $12,000 crystal bar set for the back seat, are also
available - for trust-fund tailgaters.

"Most of the entertainment-industry guys, the first thing they do is change the
wheels," said Steven Schneir, a sales rep at Manhattan Motor Cars, the nation's
leading Rolls-Royce dealership. "They usually put on the 22-inch Sprewell
spinners."

The first deposit for the new model came in 2001, before the automaker even
committed to making the car.

"I'm sure the P. Diddys and the Jay-Zs will be stepping up for the first ones as
they do," Schneir said.

"The car will be sold out for it's first year, well before it ever comes out,"
Schneir said.

Schneir estimated that about 15 people have put in orders for the car at
Manhattan Motor Cars' showroom on 11th Avenue and 28th Street. More are expected
as the holidays hit high gear.

"It's the guys who really want to make a statement," said Brian Miller, owner of
Manhattan Motor Cars. "Besides the money, they have the balls to drive one of
these. It's the last stop on the mountaintop."

The all-leather interior is more comfortable than most New York apartments.

The Rolls

Cost: First model in 1904 cost $700. The new convertible will cost $400,000,
including delivery and gas-guzzler tax.

Options: Espresso maker in armrest; $12,000 crystal bar set.

Standard features: Lamb's-wool floor mats; automatic-closing doors;
voice-activated GPS navigation with maps; umbrellas hidden inside door panels;
15-speaker sound system with subwoofers; CD player with 6-disc changer in glove
box; electronic tire-pressure monitor; TV and phone antennae; separate
driver/front-passenger climate controls; choice of oak, walnut, maple or elm
paneling; leather theater-style rear seating.

Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 5.7 seconds; top speed of 150 mph.

Mileage: 13 city, 19 highway

Engine: V-12, 453 horsepower

Transmission: 6-speed automatic transmission

Hood ornament: "Spirit of Ecstasy," created in 1911 by British sculptor Charles
Sykes. It's retractable for perilous street parking.

Prototype: The 700-hp 100EX, the model for the new line of convertibles, cost $5
million to make.

Assembly line: 1,000 cars made to order - 260 hours of labor each - annually in
glass-enclosed factory in Goodwood, England.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAGTOP DOLLAR: Big spenders are lining up, sight unseen, for the
as-yet-unreleased Rolls-Royce convertible, which will be based on this $5
million concept car. Dealers say it's sure to draw bling-blingers like Jay-Z,
who raps about Rolls' Phantom model. (Retna Ltd.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 29, 2004 Wednesday

SAY BUY, BUY - SOARING CONFIDENCE LIFTS HOPES FOR '05

BYLINE: SUZANNE KAPNER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 416 words


Consumer confidence soared in December to its highest level in six months, amid
signs of an economic recovery, including an improved labor market.

The figures, released yesterday by the Conference Board, coincided with an
uptick in spending by consumers in the week before Christmas.

The International Council of Shopping Centers said yesterday that sales at
stores open at least a year for the week that ended Dec. 25 rose 4.3 percent
compared with the same period a year ago - the strongest gain since July 3.

The last-minute surge in holiday spending is likely to go a long way toward
making up for a mostly lackluster season, analysts said.

"It had been pretty sluggish early in the month, but this last week got us back
on track," said Michael Niemira, chief economist of the International Council of
Shopping Centers, who predicts holiday spending will rise 2.5 percent to 3
percent.

Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's consumer-research center, said
the monthly survey of 5,000 U.S. households found consumers were generally more
optimistic about the overall economy, and, specifically, about job prospects.

The consumer confidence index, which had been on the decline since August,
rebounded in December to 102.3.

More people - 24.4 percent in December, compared with 23.2 percent in November -
said current business conditions are "good." And those expecting business
conditions to improve in the next six months rose to 22 percent from 20.3
percent in November.

Driving much of that improvement is a rosier outlook for jobs. Of those
surveyed, 19.4 percent said jobs are plentiful, compared with 17.1 percent who
said so a month ago.

"There's been a pickup in current conditions that is fueling optimism," Franco
said, adding that the improved outlook has already translated into stronger
spending.

"The holiday season did pick up some steam near the end," she said. "It wasn't a
complete bust for retailers."

Not all analysts were as upbeat, noting that much of the last-minute demand came
at the expense of retailers' bottom lines, as stores, panicked by the slow start
to the season, slashed prices by as much as 70 percent in the days leading up to
Christmas.

---

Bring it on!

Soaring confidence in December - and a forecast for more of the same in early
2005 - restores the consumer as U.S. economy king.

Consumer confidence index - Survey of 5,000 U.S. households. (Seasonally
adjusted, 1985 = 100) (chart) - Dec '04:  102.3 (AP)

Source: The Conference Board

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wal-Mart shoppers in York, Pa.  [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 16, 2004 Friday

ARCTIC APPLE IN DEEP FREEZE - WILD WINTER STRIKES WITH WIND CHILLS AT
BONE-NUMBING 25 BELOW

BYLINE: TODD VENEZIA, ERIN CALABRESE and ALEX GINSBERG

SECTION: Late City Final Replate; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 815 words


Old Man Winter is set to serve up an icy slap to New York and the Northeast
today - as record temperatures that feel as frigid as 25 below zero are expected
to hit the metropolitan area by this morning.

The lows, which are expected to hover near 0, could create a polar-like
atmosphere, thanks to wind gusts of up to 30 mph - prompting the National
Weather Service to issue a wind-chill warning that will be in effect until the
late morning today.

"The morning rush hour is going to be extremely cold," said Scott Reynolds, a
National Weather Service meteorologist, who added that "we're going to be very,
very close" to the all-time record low for Jan. 16 of 1 degree, which was set in
1893.

The temperatures fell to 3 degrees late last night, with the wind-chill at minus
18 degrees.

So much ice was floating in the Hudson that some ferries linking New York and
New Jersey couldn't make it across.

The NYPD's Aviation Unit rescued four Navy sailors whose boats were stuck in the
ice off Sandy Hook, N.J., last night.

The seamen were hoisted one by one to a police helicopter and flown to Staten
Island University Hospital.

They were all treated for minor injuries, along with the NYPD crew chief, who
suffered frostbite.

The weather was responsible for one tragedy, when a 15-year-old Staten Island
boy was killed after the car in which he was riding went out of control on a
snow-slicked stretch of Richmond Parkway late Wednesday night.

Joseph Mazzella was ejected from the car, which jumped a median at about 11 p.m.
and hit an SUV.

The victim's 18-year-old brother, Wayne, who was driving, was in critical
condition at Staten Island University Hospital with head injuries. The SUV
driver suffered minor injuries.

"It's just so hard," said the boys' mother, who was keeping vigil at the medical
center. "I don't know how I'm going to deal with this."

The cold kept city emergency services busy looking for homeless people.

Workers ushered them to shelters while others responded to calls from tenants
with no heat.

New Yorkers, who enjoyed mild winter temperatures prior to Christmas, bundled up
for the extreme cold. They flocked to stores for additional cold weather gear.

"We can't keep thermal underwear in stock," said Chuck Regelmann, assistant
manager for Eastern Mountain Sports on Broadway. "But we just got another
shipment, so thank God for that."

The deep freeze comes after the city was socked by snow overnight yesterday.

Between 5 and 6 inches fell in the storm, which began late Wednesday.

The snow forced hundreds of flight cancellations at New York-area airports and
forced some 300 school districts to cancel classes.

The Sanitation Department dispatched 2,000 workers to operate plows and clear
the roadways, according to spokesman Keith Mellis.

Today's cold and wind are expected to die down by tonight and tomorrow, and the
mercury will climb back to the teens and low 20s.

The temperatures could graze 32 degrees by Sunday and Monday. But any real warm
-up to normal temperatures is still days away.

Additional reporting by Carl Campanile, Jamie Schram, Zach Haberman and Post
Wire Services

COLD SNAP

The Coney Island-Brighton Beach Ice-Breakers planned to celebrate the coldest
day of the year with a dip in the Atlantic Ocean early today. "Your mind
controls your body and I'm a positive thinker," said club member Rabbi Abraham
Abraham, who intended to be among the swimmers.

COLD SNAP

Al Gore was in our ultra-frigid town yesterday to talk about, of all things,
global warming. More than 2,500 shivering supporters packed the Beacon Theater
on the Upper West Side to hear the former veep rail against the Bush
administration's policies on the hot environmental issue.

COLD SNAP

Salt is the city's best weapon for keeping New York streets free of ice. But now
it's met its match. Weather experts say when the temps go below 10 degrees, it's
too cold for salt to stop any freezing.

STAY SAFE IN THE COLD

Things you can do to stay safe in the cold:

Wear a hat, gloves and warm, layered clothing

Don't stay out in the cold for too long

Drink hot liquids, such as coffee and tea

Make sure your car is in good shape and gassed up so you won't get stuck on
trips

Keep emergency equipment in your car, such as a shovel, flares booster cables
and food

If your apartment has no heat and your landlord doesn't respond, the city's
complaint line, 311

Keep any eye out for others who may be disorient, dizzy, sluggish outdoors, they
may have hypothermia

TODAY: COLD Sunny to partly cloudy; frigid; windy; High 16 to 20.

Tonight: Mainly clear and very cold. Low 15 to 19.

TOMORROW:  Sunny to partly cloudy, breezy and cold. High 30 to 34.

Tomorrow night: Perhaps some flurries late. Low 24 to 28.

SUNDAY:  Some snow. High 34 to 38.

Evening: A few clouds. Low 26 to 30.

MONDAY:  Blustery. High 33 to 37.

Evening: Clear. Low 21 to 25.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -BLOWN AWAY: Wind-blown Midtown pedestrians shield themselves against
yesterday's gusts, which made temperatures in the Big Apple feel well below
zero.   [EPA] -FLOE-MOTION: Ice floes cake the Hudson River yesterday.
Jersey-Manhattan commuter ferries were canceled due to ice.  [N.Y. Post: Dan
Brinzac] -BLOWN AWAY: Wind-blown Midtown pedestrians shield themselves against
yesterday's gusts, which made temperatures in the Big Apple feel well below
zero.   [EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 31, 2004 Monday

'SHREK 2' WEATHERS THE ORM

BYLINE: BILL HOFFMANN

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 149 words


It was the war of the blockbusters over the weekend as "Shrek 2" and "The Day
After Tomorrow" battled it out for bragging rights as the No. 1 flick of the
holiday.

As of last night, DreamWorks' unstoppable green ogre, who is featured on nearly
800 more screens, was slightly ahead of the global-warming thriller, in which
New York City freezes over.

"Shrek 2" had earned $73.1 million from Friday to yesterday on 4,223 screens,
with "Tomorrow" close behind, at $70 million. That flick is on 3,425 screens.

"Shrek 2" now has a 12-day gross of $237.8 million.

"No ice storms in the world will cool down the red-hot 'Shrek 2,' " said Gitesh
Pandya of Box Office Guru, which tracks ticket sales.

Meanwhile, "Troy" slipped one place to a distant No. 3, with $11.5 million, for
a total of $106.1 million in 17 days.

The warm-hearted comedy "Raising Helen" debuted with a very modest $11.2
million.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 3, 2004 Tuesday

RAPE EPIDEMIC IN CLUB TOILETS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1709 words


BEWARE of the bathrooms in some of Manhattan's most chic and trendy nightclubs -
women are being sexually assaulted inside the stalls.

A 19-year-old woman told police last week that three men broke into a bathroom
in the rear of Nocturne on Bleecker Street and "raped and sodomized" her.

The victim told detectives at the Sixth Precinct that three "well-dressed
Caucasian men" burst into the club's lavatory on the night of Jan. 6 and "raped
her vaginally and anally," The Villager newspaper reports.

Meanwhile, the Chelsea club Sessa has agreed to permanently close its doors
tomorrow after being the target of more than 30 police investigations of
incidents including a rape, a robbery and 13 assaults in less than a year.
Sessa, in the basement of the high-rise apartment building at 208 W. 23rd St.,
has drawn residents' complaints since it opened last year.

But owner Stratis Morfogen tells us no charges were ever filed in the rape
investigation. He claims the probe was just another example of police
persecution of his club. Morfogen, who was once arrested for "criminal nuisance
in the third degree" by cops responding to a brawl at the venue, has since filed
a $100 million harassment lawsuit against the city.

Last December, a nightcrawler at rapper Jay-Z's Chelsea hot spot the 40/40 was
arrested for rape after a 21-year-old woman claimed she was attacked in one of
the club's unisex bathrooms.

In that case, the victim told cops she met her alleged attacker, Mario
Valenzuela-Caranz, 22, of Nutley, N.J., at 40/40 that night and consented to
have oral sex with him in the bathroom. But Valenzuela-Caranz later allegedly
forced her to have intercourse, law-enforcement sources told The Post back in
December.

Bob Zuckerman, executive director of the New York Nightlife Association, told
PAGE SIX: "Any rape is one too many, but in terms of any systemic problem at
nightclubs, I'm not hearing that. One would hope that these incidents are random
and rare.

"Clubs obviously have to take responsible precautions regarding their security
and they have to be paying attention to what's happening inside their
establishments."

Cry Wolff

WE knew Michael Wolff would eventually do something to make Vanity Fair editor
Graydon Carter sorry he hired the media columnist - but we never imagined he'd
be this quick about it. Though Wolff has quit New York magazine for Vanity Fair,
the weekly sent a fax out last night pathetically offering him as an expert on
the Martha Stewart case. The press release announced that Wolff will be
available at the federal courthouse on Centre Street at 8:40 a.m. to comment on
the trial this morning. Asked if he'd seek Wolff's insight, one media writer
responded, "Sure - as a goof."

Tart tongue

TUNE in to UPN tonight to catch Simon Doonan at his bitchiest. Doonan, in a
guest appearance on "America's Next Top Model," spends most of his time
"castigating the girls for looking like hoochie mamas," he tells us. Model Katie
"burst into tears when I told her she looked like a Hunts Point working girl . .
. I didn't feel bad because her bladder is very near her eyeballs, as the Irish
say. She cries at anything." Camille almost took a swing at Doonan when, while
she expounded on her "many-faceted personality," Doonan interrupted her to
suggest she take a multiple-personality disorder test.

Sightings

TYSON Beckford and "Monster Garage" host Jesse James riding their
Harley-Davidsons all over Houston together . . . DISNEY'S Michael Eisner at
Fresco, huddling with his former general counsel Sandy Litvak as Bruce Ratner
was being congratulated on buying the Nets . . . ANNE Meara graciously accepting
praise for her son Ben Stiller during intermission at Sunday's matinee of
"Fiddler on the Roof" while her husband, Jerry, went to the men's room . . . LL
Cool J and seven family members singing "Happy Birthday" to his mother at Tao .
. . DANNY (Mr. Julia Roberts) Moder picking up rose-colored sunglasses at
Disrespectacles on West Broadway.

Jeter's jumpy over his ex

DEREK Jeter's going out of his way to avoid his ex-girlfriend. Both Jeter and
MTV's "TRL" hostess Vanessa Minnillo were in Houston last Friday, Minnillo for
work and Jeter for fun, but the slugger was still skittish about running into
her. According to a spy, Jeter was at a local steakhouse complaining about her
to friends. "She won't get the hint and leave him alone, even though he's given
her the brush repeatedly," the source tells PAGE SIX. Jeter's buds then warned
him to avoid the slew of Super Bowl parties he wanted to attend "because of her
and her dramatics." Reps for both Jeter and Minnillo said there is no stalking
going on, but Jeter has always had a weird effect on women. After he split with
Mariah Carey in 1998, the dumped diva reportedly began tracking him down at
parties and confronting him. At one fete, Jeter was moved to shout, "You're
crazy. You're crazy. Stop pushing me." Jeter also drove sexy cosmetics counter
girl Kristielee Wilcox to storm the field and give him her number in 2002. And
don't forget how he stole singer Joy Enriquez from Texas Ranger Alex Rodriguez
in 2001.

Endquote

"NO one can tell me who the 'It' girl was last year, so it's kind of worrisome.
Who was it? All I know is, once you're the 'It' girl you are the 'Once Was An It
Girl-Girl' " - Scarlett Johansson to Fox News Channel's Bill McCuddy . . . "I
DON'T know if I will ever work again. I've said that this is a career killer,
and it could well be, but that doesn't matter because I don't care" - Mel Gibson
discussing "The Passion of Christ" on EWTN Global Catholic Network . . . "IT'S
freedom. You can do pretty much what you want. If I want to go work as a manager
at Office Depot, I can do that" - model/actor Fabrizio Brienza, an Italian
granted permanent U.S. residency through a visa program for foreigners
possessing "extraordinary ability."

Window-whack

NO one is safe from vandalism in this town. Tommy Hilfiger and his girlfriend,
Lizzie Somerby (above), spent a romantic evening together in a downtown hotel
Friday only to wake up to an ugly surprise. Some goon had smashed in the back
right-side window of Somerby's green Land Rover. The pair were spotted on the
West Side Highway Saturday, driving in the chilly morning with the window still
uncovered. A rep for Hilfiger says nothing appears to have been stolen.

Betty Crocker?

WHO knew Tori Spelling (above) was such a homemaker? The daughter of billionaire
producer Aaron Spelling is marrying fellow actor Charlie Shanian on July 4.
According to filth2go.com, since Shanian's family couldn't afford what hers
could, the couple compromised and registered at WilliamsSonoma.com. Among the
items they want: mixing bowls, muffin and cake pans, and assorted zesters and
whisks.

We hear . . . we hear

THAT Fuse, the rival channel to MTV, quickly volunteered in the wake of the
Janet Jackson breast-flashing scandal to produce any future CBS half-time shows.
MTV might never be given the opportunity again . . . THAT Sean Combs and Paris
Hilton will co-captain one team in the NBA All-Star Celebrity Basketball Game,
while Queen Latifah and WNBA star Lisa Leslie will lead another with such talent
as Paris' boyfriend Nick Carter, Sean Paul and Nelly . . . THAT the pullout of
Mercedes-Benz as a Fashion Week sponsor left a vacuum now being filled by
General Motors, which is providing Cadillac Escalades to designers Tara Subkoff,
Alice Roi and Cynthia Rowley and Hummers to all the Ford Models . . . THAT some
Academy members are voting for Sofia Coppola to win Best Director to disprove
Barbra Streisand's constant complaint she was never nominated in that category
because she is a woman. "We have nothing against women, we just don't like
Streisand," said one voter . . . THAT the "surprise entertainment" at tomorrow's
opening of the Time Warner Center is Jewel. "The Daily Show" star Jon Stewart
and CNN's Paula Zahn are em-ceeing. But the big draw is the cooking from the
center's five restaurants . . . THAT 6s & 8s, the latest venture of Guy Jacobson
and David Schlachet, is a Las Vegas-themed lounge on the Lower East Side . . .
THAT Bentley is sponsoring the alice + olivia show Friday night at Marquee where
Rene Risque will warm up the crowd.

11th-hour look at 'Passion'

MEL Gibson isn't going to make it easy for critics of his controversial movie
"The Passion of the Christ." The flick won't be screened for reviewers until
just two days before its Ash Wednesday opening on Feb. 25, Post Movie Critic Lou
Lumenick reports. Reps for the picture blamed the last-minute screening -
usually reserved for such bombs as the Jennifer Lopez-Ben Affleck starrer
"Gigli" - on its not being ready. "Passion" has been under attack over fears
that it will fan anti- Semitism. Gibson has screened it for Christian
conservatives - as well as at Internet movie gossip Harry Knowles'
Butt-Numb-a-Thon film festival - but not for professional reviewers. Gibson, who
claims his story comes straight from the Gospels, turned down a "courage" award
from the Broadcast Film Critics Association, who insisted on seeing his flick
first. It's widely believed he spurned an invitation from the Sundance Festival
rather than subject "Passion" to the media elite prematurely.

The truth came out too late

THERE might be some guilty hand-wringing today over the fate of Al Gore III, who
will complete a substance abuse program as part of a plea agreement in
Maryland's Montgomery County District Court. The 21-year-old son of former Vice
President Al Gore was arrested the night of Dec. 19 with two friends after
driving a Cadillac with his headlights off and his windows open. The cop noticed
the smell of pot and found a joint in the car. Young Gore, who goes to Harvard,
will also undergo 12 weeks of urine testing and community service. But maybe
Gore would have straightened himself out several years ago when his dad was vice
president if the media hadn't covered up his first "arrest" as a student at the
St. Albans prep school. Gore's office argued that young Al was just a child and
that publicizing his expulsion might ruin his life. Magazines and newspapers all
agreed to spike the story. Maybe publishing the truth then would have prevented
Gore from continuing his drug use.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Actress Meg Ryan may   be a little out of breath,   but she's still
recognizable under that  baseball cap and  sunglasses as she takes an  early
morning jog near her home in Brentwood, Calif.   [Splash News] -Cameron Diaz
breaks out a giant golf umbrella in L.A. to avoid some photogs. But a sudden
gust of wind turns it inside-out, giving them a more amusing picture than they
would have had if Diaz had just let them get a shot in the first place.
[X17agency.com]  (m, s) -James Brown, fresh off a brush with the law, enjoys
some fringe benefits as he breezes into town last night to boost the World Peace
Music Awards.   [RONALD ASADORIAN/SPLASH NEWS] (lcf) -Lizzie Somerby, Tori
Spelling -Actress Meg Ryan may   be a little out of breath,   but she's still
recognizable under that  baseball cap and  sunglasses as she takes an  early
morning jog near her home in Brentwood, Calif.   [Splash News] -Cameron Diaz
breaks out a giant golf umbrella in L.A. to avoid some photogs. But a sudden
gust of wind turns it inside-out, giving them a more amusing picture than they
would have had if Diaz had just let them get a shot in the first place.
[X17agency.com]  (m, s) -James Brown, fresh off a brush with the law, enjoys
some fringe benefits as he breezes into town last night to boost the World Peace
Music Awards.   [RONALD ASADORIAN/SPLASH NEWS] (lcf)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 18, 2004 Wednesday

CBRE PLANS A $150M IPO

BYLINE: LOIS WEISS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 238 words


The CB Richard Ellis Group, the world's largest real estate company, is trying
to raise $150 million with an initial public offering.

Los Angeles-based CBRE, which took itself private three years ago, filed its IPO
registration papers with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.

Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. will act as
joint book-running managers while secondary shares will be offered by Blum
Strategic Partners, which has a 67 percent stake in CB Richard Ellis.

In mid-2001, Blum helped to take the company private; it also helped it gobble
up the city-based Insignia Financial Group in a $431 million merger, leaving it
with $800 million in debt.

Because there are still bondholders, the company continues reporting to the SEC
and is familiar with its requirements.

With approximately 13,500 employees, CBRE has 220 offices worldwide. In the
tri-state area it ranks in the No. 1 or 2 position each year.

CBRE officials declined comment, citing the SEC quiet period.

While real estate service stocks - like those of Insignia, competitor Grubb &
Ellis and even the earlier CB incarnation - have been battered by buyers who did
not warm up to real estate service companies, worldwide competitor Jones Lang
LaSalle has fared OK in the public eye.

Peter Riguardi, president of Jones Lang LaSalle, said he wasn't surprised by the
decision to go public, given the debt carried by CBRE.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 2, 2004 Tuesday

PAGE SIX AT THE OSCARS

BYLINE: Richard Johnson in Hollywood

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 967 words


Ebony and ivory play in tune

THE oddest couple at Graydon Carter's star-studded Vanity Fair Oscar bash at
Mortons in Los Angeles was Cheryl Tiegs, the wholesome All-American blonde, and
Vincent Gallo, the dark, distinctly downtown director.

"I guess opposites attract," Tiegs told us when we commented on the incongruity.
The two met after Gallo offered Tiegs a part in his latest flick, "Brown Bunny,"
which was panned by critics at Cannes last year. Tiegs accepted only after
screening and liking his previous effort, "Buffalo 66," but her role was less
demanding than Chloe Sevigny's, who has a long oral sex scene with Gallo in the
flick.

Naomi Campbell was making the rounds at Mortons with music mogul Steve Stoute,
but word was out that she and "Rush Hour" director Brett Ratner are an item -
perhaps because they were spotted coming out of the Beverly Hills Hotel the
other day around noon.

Donald Trump, armed with the latest Nielsen showing "The Apprentice" tied for
top ratings with "CSI," had so much fun, he and Melania Knauss left to check out
the Elton John fund-raiser nearby and then came back to Mortons. The couple was
planning to go straight to his plane to fly back to New York after the party.

L.A. Police Chief Bill Bratton and Rikki Kleiman exchanged warm hellos with
Sidney Poitier, as Tony Bennett chatted with Bill Maher and OutKast's Andre 3000
posed for photos with Diane Keaton. Former Knick coach Pat Riley and his wife,
Chris, were hanging with producer Jerry Bruckheimer. Harvey Weinstein was
huddled with Jim Dolan. In any direction one turned, there were Nicole Kidman,
John Travolta, Renée Zellweger, Sandra Bullock, Sean Penn and Uma Thurman. Among
the New Yorkers on hand: Amy Sacco, Jimmy Rodriguez, Frederic Fekkai and Howard
Stringer.

Ill-tempered finger flicker

NICKY Hilton (left) showed her temper the other night at the birthday party for
super-model Karolina Kurkova at The Standard in Hollywood. Upstaging the likes
of Scar-lett Johansson, Benicio Del Toro, Uma Thurman and Andre Balazs, Michelle
Rodriguez, Brett Ratner, Harvey Weinstein, Damon Dash, Bryan Lourd and Jared
Leto, hotel heiress Paris Hilton's normally mild-mannered sister loudly
chastised her boyfriend, Ian Somerhalder, for ditching her at an earlier party,
as she flicked him in the face with her fingernail.

Serving all-day suckers

GRAYDON Carter showed more civil disobedience at this year's Vanity Fair Oscar
party at Mor-tons in Los Angeles, which has a New York-like smoking ban. Carter,
the magazine's editor, displayed packs of special cigarettes all around the
room, with Vanity Fair wrappers on them.  Also on hand were lollipops with the
faces of female Oscar nominees from last year on them. Leelee Sobieski was
caught sucking a lollipop with Diane Lane's face on it, while her mother was
lolling it up with a Salma Hayek sweetie. When asked why all the lollies were
women, So-bieski drolled: "They just wanted women -it's all girl-on-girl
action."

Kid at heart

OLD age isn't slowing Red Buttons down. At the Food & Wine magazine party at
Spago, Liz Dueland, who does public relations for Perrier Jouet, was chatting
with actress Susan Blakely when the 85-year-old actor approached them and
confided he'd like to have a threesome with the two women. Our spies also
spotted a publicist for "Bay-watch" babe Traci Bingham (above) making a beeline
for the gift-bag table to make sure one was reserved for her client. Imagine the
disappointment when she found out later the bag had little but a magazine and
some popcorn.

Sightings . . . JUDE Law stumbling out of the Whiskey Bar at the Sunset Marquis
the night before the Oscars . . . JACK Black snagging Tim Robbins' Oscar out of
the award-winner's hand outside of the Vanity Fair Oscar party at Mortons . . .
JONI Mitchell puffing away constantly on the Vanity Fair custom-made cigarettes
at the mag's L.A. bash . . . OWEN Wilson ordering an In & Out burger in
Hollywood -but asking for no onions so his breathe wouldn't smell.

Say no evil

WHILE most of the stars on stage at the Oscars would have liked to do some
Bush-bashing, à la Michael Moore, they were expected to hold their tongues. With
the exception of Sean Penn and Er roll Morris, most winners and presenters
complied, but Charlize Theron, Mar-cia Gay Harden, Tim Rob-bins, Keisha
Castle-Hughes, Sting, Will Fer-rell, Robin Wil-liams, Susan Saran-don and Jack
Black (inset) were all involved in a silent protest against President Bush's
environmental policies. The stars all arrived at the Academy Awards in
fuel-efficient Toyota Prius hybrids instead of gas-guzzling limos as part of
Global Green USA's 2nd Annual "Red Carpet - Green Stars" event.

Photog's truly tasteless gambit

PAGE SIX has learned how famed photographer Peter Beard (left) was able to sneak
two models into the smoldering ruins of the World Trade Center 21/2 years ago
and shoot photos of them half-naked on the hallowed ground. "He traded a nude
photograph of me to get into Ground Zero," model Jeanine Giovanni said at the
party Ferragamo threw for Beard at Soho House West in Los Angeles, after the
opening of his show at the Fahey/Klein Gallery. "It was still smoking. We got to
drive a little golf cart. I had on 5-inch heels, me and Angelique. "We hadn't
been in the sun, and we were so pale." The photos, which have never been seen
publicly, upset many people who thought it was inappropriate for half-naked
models to lounge on what amounted to a mass grave. Meanwhile, Harvey Weinstein,
Kyle MacLachlan, Eva Mendes, Sofia Coppola, Michelle Rodriguez and Naomi Watts
mingled. Beard's dealer, David Fahey, was happy because he'd already sold half
the show, which didn't include the controversial photographs of the girls,
including "Tiralugga," a huge photo of elephants, for a record-setting $125,000.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - TRACI BINGHAM. (Splash News) - Cheryl Tiegs and Vincent Gallo go
hand-in-hand to the Vanity Fair bash. (Matt Baron/BEImages) - JACK BLACK.
(Michael Caulfield/WireImage.com) - PETER BEARD. (Sylvain Gaboury/DMI) -
"There's supposed to be 11 - can you check the men's room?" An army of gold men
couldn't keep Peter Jackson off his cell phone at the Governors Ball. (Alex
Berliner/Berliner) - "You mean I'm not the richest one here?" Oprah Winfrey dabs
her eyes at the Vanity Fair party. (Mario Anzuoni/Splash News) - "Someone call
security - and get me a lint brush!" Renee Zellweger gets an unwelcome visit
from Jack White at the Vanity Fair bash. (Eric Charbonneau/Berliner) - NICKY
HILTON. (Jemal Countess/WireImage.com) - TRACI BINGHAM. (Splash News) - Cheryl
Tiegs and Vincent Gallo go hand-in-hand to the Vanity Fair bash. (Matt
Baron/BEImages) - JACK BLACK. (Michael Caulfield/WireImage.com) - PETER BEARD.
(Sylvain Gaboury/DMI) - "There's supposed to be 11 - can you check the men's
room?" An army of gold men couldn't keep Peter Jackson off his cell phone at the
Governors Ball. (Alex Berliner/Berliner) - "You mean I'm not the richest one
here?" Oprah Winfrey dabs her eyes at the Vanity Fair party. (Mario
Anzuoni/Splash News) - "Someone call security - and get me a lint brush!" Renee
Zellweger gets an unwelcome visit from Jack White at the Vanity Fair bash. (Eric
Charbonneau/Berliner)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 16, 2004 Sunday

BOYS OF SUMMER - THEY'RE MOSTLY BRAINS, WITH A HINT OF BRAWN

BYLINE: RUSSELL SCOTT SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 98

LENGTH: 1535 words


IT'S summer at the multiplex: Time for tanned Hollywood hardbodies to take off
their shirts and flex their muscles, right?

Not this year.

Brad Pitt aside, this summer's hottest leading men are sensitive, modern
anti-hunks like Tobey Maguire, Jake Gyllenhaal and Joaquin Phoenix -
thinking-women's sex symbols more likely to sit down and read a book than knock
your block off.

"It's a lot different from the Sylvester Stallone types that you used to get in
summer movies," says gossip columnist Jeannette Walls of Msnbc.com.

Of course, summer 2004 offers a handful of old-fashioned hunks, including Vin
Diesel in "The Chronicles of Riddick" (June 11); Will Smith in "I, Robot" (July
16); and Tom Cruise in "Collateral" (Aug. 6).

But if you like your men skinny and brooding, curl up with these modern-day
Holden Caulfields.

"They're the kids next door who rise to the occasion, and that's what we want
from a movie hero in this day and age," says "Spider-Man 2" producer Avi Arad.

"They're more like the cops and soldiers who are our real-life heroes, and much
more interesting than some typical movie star with a XXXL-sized neck."

Tobey Maguire

"Spider-Man 2" (June 30)

Talk about a hunk next door - Tobey Maguire almost didn't return for the sequel
to the fifth-highest grossing movie of all time because he has a bad back.

It's hard to imagine Bruce Willis having this problem.

But last March, just weeks before production on "Spider-Man 2" was set to begin,
Maguire told director Sam Raimi that he didn't know if he could do it. After
riding horses for months on the "Seabiscuit" shoot, Maguire was hurting and
worried about some of the Spidey stunts.

After the news leaked out, some in Hollywood speculated that Maguire was holding
out for more money. Rumors circulated that the studio, Sony, was ready to dump
Maguire in favor of Jake Gyllenhaal - just like his "Spider-Man" co-star Kirsten
Dunst four months before.

But when shooting started in April, Maguire was wearing the Spidey suit.

"The whole thing got so blown out of proportion," says Arad, who controls the
"Spider-Man" franchise as head of Marvel Comics.

The 28-year-old Maguire, who has already signed on for a third "Spider-Man," set
for a 2007 release, is the poster child for the sensitive Everyman hero, Arad
says: "The kids love him because he proves that you don't have to be a
linebacker to get a date."

Or not get a date.

In the new movie, Spidey and his alter-ego, Peter Parker, are fighting a
metal-armed villain called Doctor Octavius (Alfred Molina). But the heart of the
film is the star-crossed, never-consummated love story of Parker and Dunst's
Mary Jane.

The pair are crazy for each other, but they can't be together because of
Parker's responsibilities as Spider-Man.

There are a couple of close calls, however - including one steamy scene that
Arad calls "Spider-Man 2's" answer to the first movie's famous upside-down kiss.

"I don't want to spoil it, but it's a scene where Mary Jane finds Peter in a
very unique position - and there's a spider web involved," Arad says,
mysteriously.

"After you see it, call me back and tell me if that's not the sexiest part of
the movie."

Jake Gyllenhaal

"The Day after Tomorrow" (May 28)

Director Roland Emmerich has worked with his share of hunks, like Will Smith in
1996's "Independence Day" and Mel Gibson in 2000's "The Patriot."

But for his big-budget global-warming disaster flick "The Day after Tomorrow,"
Emmerich wanted a thoughtful "anti-hero," he says - like Jake Gyllenhaal, the
23-year-old puppy-eyed heartthrob of such indie hits as "Donnie Darko" (2001)
and "The Good Girl" (2002).

"He always looks so intelligent," Emmerich says. "He takes acting really
seriously."

Sometimes too seriously. At one point on the "Tomorrow" shoot, 250 extras had to
wait for two long days in the New York Public Library, as Gyllenhaal did take
after take, searching for just the right spin on a crucial speech.

"I kept telling him, 'Jake, it's easy,'¤" Emmerich says. "But he was so caught
up in making the scene real that he just couldn't get it.

"He nailed it at the end of the second day. We were all so tired. Everyone burst
into applause."

A lot of people have been applauding Gyllenhaal lately. He and his sister,
Maggie, are gossip-page fixtures, along with Jake's girlfriend, Kirsten Dunst.
And when he's not hitting clubs, Gyllenhaal works hard on such upcoming projects
as "Proof," a movie adaptation of the Broadway play with Gwyneth Paltrow, and
Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain," in which he plays a gay cowboy in love with
Heath Ledger.

In "Tomorrow," Gyllenhaal's love interest is Emmy Rossum, the 17-year-old
"Mystic River" actress. Their big moment comes after they get soaked by
freezing-cold water from tidal waves and escape into an abandoned clothes store.

"Jake strips down to his shorts, and Emmy puts her arms around him - she says
she wants to warm him up," Emmerich says. "It's very erotic."

And don't worry about whether Jake can pull off the shirtless scene, the
director adds.

"He may be an anti-hunk," Emmerich says. "But he's in great shape."

Joaquin Phoenix

"The Village" (July 30)

Perhaps no summer hunk is as unhunky as this one.

Joaquin Phoenix has been a vegan since he was 3 years old, and he was once
photographed for a Prada ad from the waist up because he won't wear leather.

He's definitely not the Schwarzenegger type.

But that doesn't stop women from falling for him, whether he's playing the
scarily angry Emperor Commodus opposite Russell Crowe in 2000's "Gladiator," the
high school student scarily obsessed with Nicole Kidman in 1995's "To Die For" -
or a 19th-century farmer spooked by scary forest creatures in M. Night
Shyamalan's latest creepfest, "The Village."

"You certainly get two thumbs up from the ladies when you say you're working
with Joaquin Phoenix," says "Village" producer Sam Mercer.

"And there are plenty of opportunities for him to show his physique, with his
sleeves rolled up, working in the fields."

Not that Phoenix is anyone's idea of beefcake.

"This guy is a real actor," Mercer says, and Phoenix will show it in "The
Village," as well as in upcoming movies like the fireman drama "Ladder 49," due
in November, and "Walk the Line," due next year, in which Phoenix plays the
young Johnny Cash.

Of course, for many, Phoenix is still best known as River's brother, the guy who
watched his famous older brother die outside L.A.'s Viper Room in 1993. And
there's plenty of sadness in his offbeat charm.

"He's very appealing," says Msnbc's Walls. "He's the kind of guy that in high
school would have been a reject.

"But now he's a star."

Ryan Gosling

"The Notebook" (June 25)

In Hollywood, this intense 23-year-old actor is on just about everybody's
stars-of-tomorrow list after critically acclaimed turns in dark indies like
2001's "The Believer."

But for the rest of us, Gosling is probably best known as the kid who hooked up
with 39-year-old Sandra Bullock.

The pair met on the set of 2002's "Murder by Numbers," in which Gosling played a
teen serial killer, and stayed together while he filmed his next movie, "The
Notebook," a three-hanky love story based on the 1996 Nicholas Sparks novel.

After seeing the movie this summer, you'll know what Bullock was thinking.

"Ryan is a really handsome, rugged guy," says Gosling's leading lady in "The
Notebook," Rachel McAdams. "He has this quiet, brooding mystery about him. You
just want to understand him."

That serious intensity comes naturally to Gosling, who always takes time before
a scene to psyche himself up.

"He'd go sit in the barn, or by the water," recalls "Notebook" producer Mark
Johnson. "You knew that wasn't the time to offer him a cup of coffee."

Not that Gosling is always so serious. He started in showbiz at age 13, as a
regular on the "Mickey Mouse Club," with Britney Spears, Justin Timberlake and
Christina Aguilera.

Daniel Radcliffe

"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" (June 4)

He's only 14 years old, so perhaps it's wrong to call the "Harry Potter" star a
hunk.

But plenty of girls have been watching Daniel Radcliffe grow up in the first two
Potter movies, and in "Azkaban," they'll see a boy coming into his own.

"Dan has a lot of female fans, and he's just going to get more," says Chris
Columbus, who directed the first two movies and produced this one.

"All the girls on the set had huge crushes on him."

And why not? Radcliffe's Potter has become a complicated teen in "Azkaban,"
which was directed by Alfonso Cuaron, whose last film was the sexy indie hit "Y
Tu Mama Tambien."

In this movie, Potter isn't just fighting evil wizards - he's dealing with
raging hormones and a changing voice. He's even developing muscles underneath
those Hogwarts robes.

"Dan did a lot of weightlifting, running and gymnastics for the quidditch
scenes," Columbus says. "It's not like he's a Schwarzenegger, but he's tougher."

And angrier. Radcliffe has said that Potter's the type of kid who would listen
to punk rock - just like the young actor himself.

"Dan's always e-mailing me about bands he's into," Columbus says. "He loves the
Clash, and he's really into Franz Ferdinand now."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - Joaquin Phoenix: Vegan's no beefcake - but he's hot. (Stephanie
Pfriender/Corbis Outline) - Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, with Emma
"Hermione" Watson. (Warner Bros.) - Ryan Gosling: 23 and intense. (Jeff
Vespa/WireImage) - Gyllenhaal 'may be an anti-hunk, but he's in great shape.'
(Gerald Forster/Corbis Outline) - Tobey Maguire, a.k.a. Peter Parker. (Anthony
Mandler/Corbis Outline) - Joaquin Phoenix: Vegan's no beefcake - but he's hot.
(Stephanie Pfriender/Corbis Outline) - Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, with
Emma "Hermione" Watson. (Warner Bros.) - Ryan Gosling: 23 and intense. (Jeff
Vespa/WireImage) - Gyllenhaal 'may be an anti-hunk, but he's in great shape.'
(Gerald Forster/Corbis Outline)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 12, 2004 Saturday

LAUGHS FLOW AS FREELY AS TEARS IN HONOR OF OUR GREAT STORYTELLER

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 740 words


HE was a serious man whose three greatest loves were his country, his wife and
his ability to tell a slightly off-color story. So something tells me Ronald
Reagan would have just loved this.

In a grand stone cathedral, under a vaulted ceiling rising 10 stories into the
sky, Reagan's funeral was a spectacle steeped in majesty - and an intimate
homecoming bathed in warm laughter. It was at once a solemn tribute to a great
man whose passing we mourn, and a star-studded party of global proportions.

A great room, he might say.

They walked into the cathedral, Tony Blair and Maggie Thatcher, Colin Powell and
Henry Kissinger. Sandra Day O'Connor and Rudy Giuliani. Heads of state and
actors and politicians of most every state, nation and political vintage. Joan
Rivers even brushed past me on the way inside.

They smiled and waved across the vast sea of current, future and former
celebrity. They embraced, shook, smooched. The schmoozing never stopped.

There was Bill Clinton, standing jovially up front, being greeted by every
manner of president and priest.

Sen. John Kerry briefly dropped the hand of his wife, Teresa, and moved
purposefully into Clinton's airspace. But the ex-president turned his gaze from
the would-be president, and fixed his attentions on U.N. Secretary-General Kofi
Annan, until Kerry and wife finally moseyed over to their seats directly behind
a giant, stone pillar.

Former prominents Al Gore and wife Tipper lingered on the street outside,
looking to chat. Finally they settled on a famous TV preacher whose name escapes
me. I saw a tourist snapping their picture.

And then it began.

President Bush and First Lady Laura walked in, taking their rightful places up
front. Clinton sat wedged between the ultra-conservative second lady Lynn Cheney
and his own wife Hillary, who did not sit with her fellow senators. Yesterday,
she appeared in the role of Bill's wife. Vice President Dick Cheney reached over
and stiffly shook her hand.

Jim Brady, who was shot in the head and gravely wounded with Reagan one day 23
years ago, sat in a wheelchair, gazing at the coffin of the man he improbably
survived. Joe Lieberman wandered over to say hello.

Then, Nancy.

As the former first lady walked into the cathedral, the room hushed for a
moment. Politicians refrained from vying for photo ops. For Nancy was her
husband's heart and inspiration.

"Nancy came along and saved my soul," Baroness Margaret Thatcher, speaking on
videotape, remembered Reagan telling her. Thatcher's once-fiery voice was
tragically reduced, by age and strokes, to a near-whisper.

As Nancy approached, President Bush rose to his feet and gallantly offered his
arm. She allowed the younger man to escort her to her seat, near children Ron
and Patti. Patti gently held a prayer book for her mother.

The words we heard on this day were bold, patriotic. But what I remember most is
that they were funny.

Former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney talked of standing with Reagan on
an airport tarmac, watching as their wives approached. "You know, Brian," Reagan
told him, "We're two Irishmen. We sure married up."

The first President George Bush nearly broke into tears, saying "I learned more
from Ronald Reagan than from anyone I encountered in all my years of public
life. I learned kindness. We all did. I also learned courage. And I learned
decency."

He remembered once asking Reagan "how went his visit with Bishop Tutu?"

"So-so," Reagan told him without missing a beat.

Bush's son, the president, told how the actor Robert Cummings asked Reagan, then
in Hollywood, "Did you ever consider becoming president?"

"President of what?" Reagan had asked him.

"Of the United States," was the answer.

Then Reagan replied, "What's the matter? Don't you like my acting?"

It was fitting, every bit of it. For Reagan was a man of humble beginnings who
preferred elegantly tailored suits. A man of faith and strength who had nary a
harsh word for anyone. A man everyone liked.

When he survived a would-be assassin's bullet early in his presidency, Thatcher
said, Reagan had told a priest that "he had been given back his life for a
purpose."

"Whatever time I've got left," she quoted him, "is for the big fella upstairs."

"He is himself again," Thatcher said. "He is more himself than ever before. We
can be sure that the big fella upstairs never forgets those who remember him."

America - and the world - will not forget.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIRST FRIENDS: Bill Clinton greets Gerald Ford as Hillary spots an
acquaintance. (UPI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 17, 2004 Tuesday

BRING GIS HOME: W. - EYES SHIFT FROM ASIA & EUROPE

BYLINE: DEBORAH ORIN Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 353 words


WASHINGTON - President Bush yesterday unveiled plans to bring home up to 70,000
troops from Europe and Asia, with the biggest chunk coming out of Germany.

Democratic rival John Kerry's allies instantly opposed the idea.

"The world has changed a great deal and our posture must change with it," Bush
said as he revealed plans for a massive shift of troops that he said will make
it easier to strike fast against terror - and easier on military families.

"Our service members will have more time on the home front, and more
predictability, and fewer moves over a career," the commander-in-chief told the
Veterans of Foreign Wars.

The VFW convention is getting special attention since it's held in Cincinnati in
the uber-swing state of Ohio. Bush got a warm welcome - Kerry speaks there
tomorrow.

Veterans are a key voting group in the November election - Kerry is hoping his
Vietnam service will win them over but polls show they favor Bush. Reducing
overseas deployments could be popular with military families.

U.S. officials said the shifts, which will also bring home 100,000 family
members and support staff, could begin in 2006 but won't affect the 135,000 U.S.
troops now in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The White House gave no figures on savings but Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison
(R-Texas) predicted it will be "hundreds of millions." Countries that now host
U.S. bases stand to lose megabucks now spent by troops and their families.

Kerry was taking the day off, but two of his allies, diplomat Richard Holbrooke
and retired Gen. Wesley Clark, both claimed Bush's plan would "weaken America's
national security" and anger European allies.

"As we face a global war on terror with al Qaeda active in more than 60
countries, now is not the time to pull back our forces," said Clark, who
contended the move looks "politically motivated."

---

U.S. military deployment

Europe (Total: 116,507)

Germany: 75,603

Italy: 13,354

U.K.: 11,801

Bosnia: 2,931

Spain: 1,968

Turkey: 1,863

Portugal: 1,077

Belgium: 1,534

Afloat: 2,534

Other: 3,842

Asia (Total: 97,724)

Japan: 40,045

South Korea: 37,000

Afloat: 16,601

Other: 4,078

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMMANDER: President Bush yesterday greets members of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars in Cincinnati.  [AFP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 22, 2004 Wednesday

DUBYA IN THE DESPOTS' DEN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 517 words


If even just half of the "esteemed" VIPs at the United Nations shared the values
espoused by President Bush in his speech to them yesterday, the world would be
immensely safer - and better.

Alas, they don't.

Indeed, as Americans know, Turtle Bay is riddled with despots and
double-crossers, conmen and cowards. An odd lot - but one with which
presidential candidate John Kerry seeks to cast an alliance.

Start with the body's highest official, Secretary-General Kofi Annan. He's been
on a tear lately, chiding Washington for waging an "illegal" campaign in Iraq.

Even though that campaign was meant to fulfill the Security Council's own threat
of "serious consequences" if Saddam Hussein failed to comply with U.N.
resolutions.

"History will judge us very harshly," Annan lectured in a warm-up to Bush, "if
we . . . think we are excused" from "rigorously upholding international law" by
claiming "national sovereignty."

(Lucky for the secretary-general, Oil-for-Food corruption isn't covered by
international law - or the whole corrupt enterprise he allegedly supervises
would have been hauled off to international jail a long time ago.)

But what kind of law is Annan talking about, if it's not to be enforced?

Or enforced selectively?

Bush, for his part, got it exactly right at the United Nations yesterday.

"The commitments we make must have meaning," the president said. "When we say
'serious consequences,' for the sake of peace, there must be serious
consequences. And so, [in Iraq] a coalition of nations" - notably not the U.N. -
"enforced the just demands of the world."

Coalition forces there, he said, "are confronting the terrorists and foreign
fighters, so peaceful nations around the world will never have to face them
within our own borders."

They are, in fact, doing what the United Nations should be doing.

Toward that end, Bush urged the world body to do more, even now, "to help build
an Iraq that is secure, democratic, federal and free." Even as he acknowledged -
despite Kerry's claim yesterday that he didn't - that the job would not be easy,
or cost-free.

"The work ahead is demanding," said Bush. With the onset of historic elections
in Afghanistan and Iraq, "we can expect terrorist attacks to escalate."

As, indeed, they have.

Monday, an al Qaeda-linked group in Iraq took responsibility for beheading an
American, Eugene Armstrong; yesterday it claimed to have slain another.

It won't end there.

But Bush vowed the very resolve Turtle Bay so badly lacks: "These difficulties
will not shake our conviction that the future of Afghanistan and Iraq is a
future of liberty. The proper response is not to retreat, it is to prevail."

Spreading freedom carries a cost, Bush said. But, he argued, it also "is the
path to both a safer and better world."

Yet Kerry instantly jumped into Annan's boat, arguing that Bush "has no
credibility with foreign leaders."

He couldn't have gotten it more backward: Many foreign leaders - in, say, France
or Germany - have no standing when it comes to global security.

They - and John Kerry - can learn much from George W. Bush.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 3, 2004 Sunday

FIELD OF DREAMS - GIANTS LOOKING FORWARD TO LEGEND OF LAMBEAU

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 825 words


GREEN BAY - Jim Finn's memory is vivid and vibrant. His first glimpse of Lambeau
Field was filled with awe and respect, and he left with his first career
touchdown.

"You walk out there for the first time and warm up by yourself, you kind of take
a step back and take it in for a second," Finn said. "I'm happy to get to play
there again. One time wasn't enough."

The Giants fullback was with the Colts in 2000 when, of course, it was a snowy
November day on the NFL's most famous battleground. He returns today to a place
where the Giants rarely tread. Few would have anticipated that game No. 4 of the
season would be about the Giants (2-1) attempting to legitimize their success
and the Packers (1-2) looking to reclaim theirs.

"It's still early in the season, but what separates great teams from everyone
else is obviously winning at home but [being] able to go on the road in a tough
environment and win," Finn said. "That's what tough teams and excellent teams
do. If we show we're capable of doing that, it will be even more of a confidence
builder."

To escape Lambeau with a win, the Giants, who haven't visited here in nine years
(only defensive end Michael Strahan remains from that team) and haven't won here
since 1971, won't have to chase away any ghosts or confront the specter of Vince
Lombardi. Surely, the Pack isn't invulnerable in its football cathedral, losing
here two weeks ago to the Bears. This will be a formidable test, though, with
Brett Favre aching to end a two-game losing skid, taking aim at a Giants defense
that feasted the past two games against less-threatening attacks.

Many of the Giants viewed this trip with great anticipation. Veterans who've
played at Lambeau understand the special quality of this nostalgic, throwback
scene.

"It's basically the only show in town, and there's so much admiration coming
from me to see how their fans support them," said defensive end Keith
Washington, who last played here in 1996 with the Lions. "It's just like a back
yard, grass; a lot of places now have the new sports turf. It's Lambeau Field,
it's grass; grass is what we started playing football on back when we can
remember. I look forward to the moment."

Another former Lion, linebacker Barrett Green, is 0-4 at Lambeau and as a
defensive player wants nothing to do with the trademark "Lambeau Leap" made by
Packers players who soar into the stands after scoring a touchdown. "It can get
to be annoying, but it's our job to stop it," Green said.

Green once watched in amazement as a visiting player, Lions receiver Germane
Crowell, tried the Lambeau Leap into hostile territory. "He did it and they
pushed him back," Green said. Asked what he would do if he scored on a return,
Green said, "I'll probably just throw the ball at 'em."

The Giants would like to believe they can continue to wave their magic defensive
wand and the opponent will give the ball away (10 forced turnovers the past two
games) and that their own offense can continue to be a low-mistake operation.

"We had two games at home and we were fairly successful doing some of the things
coach [Tom] Coughlin's been trying to express to us that is a need for victory,
now we have to take the show on the road," Finn said. "Hopefully we've
progressed and learned a little bit and have some confidence going and build
some more chemistry, because winning kind of breeds that development and
chemistry."

This would be a major step forward for the Giants but they're likely to stumble.
Can't imagine Brett Favre and/or Ahman Green being contained, and that 1-2 punch
can be lethal. Could be tough getting down the bratwurst after this one.

PACKERS 31

GIANTS 20

INJURY REPORT

Giants: OUT: S Shaun Williams (knee). QUESTIONABLE: RB Ron Dayne (calf); WR
Jamaar Taylor (hamstring); CB Frank Walker (foot); DE Keith Washington
(concussion).

Packers: OUT: C Mike Flanagan (knee); DT Grady Jackson (knee); DT James Lee
(knee). DOUBTFUL: CB Mike McKenzie (hamstring). QUESTIONABLE: CB Ahmad Carroll
(groin); RB Najeh Davenport (hamstring). PROBABLE: QB Brett Favre (hamstring);
TE Bubba Franks (knee); CB Al Harris (toe); G Marco Rivera (groin); LB Nick
Rogers (ankle); WR Javon Walker (knee).

KEY MATCHUP

DE Michael Strahan vs. RT Mark Tauscher. Strahan is coming off a monster game
(two sacks, two fumble recoveries vs. Browns); Tauscher is starting for the
fifth consecutive year as part of perhaps the best offensive line in the NFL.

NUMBERS TO KNOW

Kurt Warner has not thrown an interception in 119 passes dating back to last
season, the second-longest streak of his career (133 is his best streak).

GIANT CONCERN

Global warming. The presidential campaign. Missing the foliage season. And, oh
yes, Mr. Brett Favre. He's light-years ahead of what they've seen recently (Mark
Brunell, Jeff Garcia) and it's impossible to simulate his special talents in
practice.

FOE FACT

Since 2000, the Packers have the NFL's best home record (26-7).

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - Stadium. (Getty Images) KURT WARNER - Stadium. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 21, 2004 Thursday

STOCKS, BONDS SLIDE AS OIL, GAS PRICES HIT HIGHS

BYLINE: PAUL THARP

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 420 words


After falling for two days, oil prices soared yesterday as economists sounded
the alarm that energy costs are slowing the U.S. economy.

Soaring heating costs for both oil and natural gas marched to more new highs
yesterday and, bonds behaved as though investors expected energy prices to keep
dragging down the economy and taking even more cash from consumers' pockets.

Crude oil prices charged back up to $55 a barrel yesterday after government data
said there'll be a shortage of home heating oil this winter to warm homes.

With higher transportation costs, prices of food and other goods could raise the
red flag of inflation.

Light crude hit a high here of $55.20 a barrel, before settling at $54.92 a
barrel, up $1.63.

Home heating oil is 44 percent higher than last winter, and hit the highest
retail level in 14 years, at $1.1988 a gallon.

Even before yesterday's two new records in home heating oil and natural gas,
economists at major banks were rushing out revised forecasts predicting sharper
slowdowns in economic growth.

Citigroup has cut its growth rate outlook for the economy to just 3 percent in
the fourth quarter from an earlier 4 percent, while J.P Morgan cut its growth
forecasts for the U.S. and entire global economy for the rest of the year and
into the first quarter of next year.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 10.69 to 9,886.93. The Standard & Poor's
500 Index was basically flat, up just 0.43 to 1,103.66, and the Nasdaq added
10.07 to 1,932.97.

Inventories of heating oil, diesel fuels and other distillates have fallen for
five straight weeks, and are 13 percent below last year's levels.

New York heating oil wholesale futures hit a record high at $1.565 a gallon,
while the average retail prices hit $1.988 a gallon. Economists estimate that
the heating costs are sucking as much as $500 from a typical family's spending
this winter.

The price of natural gas also hit record highs in New York, rising to $7.75 per
million British thermal units, the highest level since March 2003.

Hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico slammed production operations there, knocking
out about 25 percent of crude oil production and about 13 percent of natural gas
output.

Heating oil supplies are also running low in other countries, such as Germany
and Japan, the world's third-biggest oil consumer.

Meanwhile, the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose, pushing its yield
below 4 percent as a result of soaring oil. Bad news pushes bond prices higher.

---

Bubbling up

Close: 54.92 (+1.63)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 2, 2004 Tuesday

OIL DROP BOOSTS ECONOMY

BYLINE: PAUL THARP

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 298 words


The historic oil-price climb is finally easing - giving the U.S. economy some
more wind in its sails.

Crude-oil prices dropped sharply yesterday and are expected to slide lower as
speculators abruptly switched gears on their bets about global supply.

A warm start to winter also is helping hold down prices of home-heating oil,
while gasoline inventories remain stronger than expected.

Analysts believe crude-oil prices will drop for the rest of the year as a
bearish mentality takes over energy traders.

"As far as we can tell, this market seems to have made a top, and we expect to
see lower prices this week," energy analyst Peter Beutel of Cameron Hanover said
in his report on the collapse of crude's historic bull market.

In the first six months alone, surging prices for crude has siphoned more than
$140 billion in U.S. consumer spending from nonoil products.

For each penny increase in a gallon of gas, $1 billion is drawn from motorists'
pockets to fill their tanks.

Economists say expected cooling of China's overheated factories, combined with a
drop in U.S. manufacturing, are slowing demand for oil in the two countries -
the top users of crude oil.

Wholesale gasoline prices also dropped to a six-week low on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, setting the stage for a break at the gas pumps.

December crude futures fell by $1.63 a barrel to settle at $50.13 - the lowest
price in a month.

December heating oil fell 5.65 cents to $1.4076 a gallon, while gasoline fell
3.77 cents to $1.2908 a gallon.

Natural gas for December delivery dropped 0.5 cent to $8.720 per 1,000 cubic
feet. Also boosting supplies are the return of several oil and gas production
facilities that were shut down in the Gulf of Mexico by Hurricane Ivan in
September.

---

Slip'n slide

Close: $50.13 (-1.63)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 4, 2004 Thursday

CHEER UP, NEW YORK! A DOZEN GREAT WAYS TO GET OVER THE POST-ELECTION BLUES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 1504 words


Well, Dems, it's finally over.

All those months you spent in the throes of political fervor have paid off in a
massive, citywide hangover of heartbreak and anger.

"Who died?" seems the natural thing to say as you step onto a subway train
packed with grim commuters. Buck up: There's a lot to look forward, at least in
the apolitical arena.

The start of sample-sale season, the return of "The O.C.," Mr. Sarah Jessica
Parker's return to the stage - this month, there's something to lift every
broken liberal heart.

U2's Bono even took time off from global networking to stop in the studio and
release a new CD.

Finally, remember: In this city, you're in the majority. Since when did the rest
of the country matter, anyway?

Broderick on stage

Maybe you missed him in "The Producers" - or maybe you just miss him, period. No
matter: Now you can see Matthew Broderick at his best - up close - in the
revival of "The Foreigner," opening Sunday at the cozy Laura Pels Theater.

Broderick plays a buttoned-up Brit on holiday at a fishing lodge in redneck
Georgia. So socially inept is he that he pretends not to understand a word of
English in the hope the locals will leave him alone. They don't. Complications
(extremely funny ones) ensue.

Frances Sternhagen, Byron Jennings and other pros round out the terrific
ensemble cast. So get your tickets now: "The Foreigner" packs up Jan. 16.

MoMA comes home-a

You don't have to schlep to Queens anymore for your Van Gogh fix. On Nov. 20,
the Museum of Modern Art returns - bigger and brighter than ever - to 53rd
Street. Go for the art, the atrium, the sculpture-garden views and (more
delectable still) Danny Meyer's newest venture, the Modern.

Details are still fuzzy, but we do know Atelier's Gabriel Kreuther is manning
the kitchen of this chic, street-level restaurant, which won't officially open
till next year. But you can get a taste of things to come as early as MoMA's
opening day, when the eatery will serve a limited menu.

FYI: There'll be free museum admission for all Nov. 20; after, it's $20 a pop
(but you can get in free Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.)

Eminem and U2

Guess who's back - with a vengeance? His Eminem-inance himself: On the eve of
the Nov. 16 release of his album, "Encore," the Detroit emcee brewed a bit of
controversy to get his peeps pumped.

First came that "Just Lose It" video dissing Michael Jackson (along with other
'80s icons such as Madonna and Pee-Wee Herman). Then, in "Mosh," there's his
attack on President Bush and that "oil for money" policy.

That Eminem: He's always starting something.

So is U2, for that matter. As the Irish rockers did with their Y2K disc, "All
That You Can't Leave Behind," they've returned to their rock 'n' roll roots for
"How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb," out Nov. 23.

Fans were able to get a sneak preview of the first guitar-driven single,
"Vertigo," in an iPod ad. Besides a blast to the past, it's just a blast - all
new, but with that unmistakable U2 sound.

Stay tuned, too, for the band's signature, black-and-red U2 iPod - it has the
band members' signatures on the back. That's due midmonth, too.

Michael Chabon's latest

For Michael Chabon fans, there was only one problem with his 2001 Pulitzer
Prize-winning novel, "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay" - the words,
"the end." Since then, we've made do with a children's book and a few short
stories while waiting for the word-magician's next novel, "The Yiddish
Policeman's Union," due next fall.

But there's a tasty hors d'oeuvre hitting stores Tuesday: "The Final Solution,"
a 128-page novella in which Chabon invents a final case for Sherlock Holmes. It
involves a mute child who has apparently escaped from Nazi Germany with a pet
parrot who spouts mysterious German numbers. An SS secret code, perhaps? We
can't wait to find out.

Oscar-worthy flicks

Can't afford a ticket to Europe? Live out your escapist fantasies at the local
multiplex, where - thank the Lord! - Oscar season has officially begun.

That means a flood of quality flicks boasting marquee stars and exotic locales -
enough to lift the staunchest blue-stater out of the doldrums.

Next Friday brings "Finding Neverland," a gold-standard charmer featuring an
Oscar-worthy performance by Johnny Depp as whimsical "Peter Pan" creator J.M.
Barrie.

On Dec. 17, Martin Scorsese's much-anticipated Howard Hughes biopic, "The
Aviator," flies in to save the day.

A slick-haired Leonardo DiCaprio plays the eccentric tycoon, and Cate Blanchett,
Kate Beckinsale and No Doubt singer Gwen Stefani glam up as '30s movie stars
Katherine Hepburn, Ava Gardner and Jean Harlow, respectively.

And, for some lighthearted larceny on Dec. 10, George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Julia
Roberts, Matt Damon and the rest of the gang are back with "Ocean's Twelve," the
globe-trotting sequel to 2001's ring-a-ding-ding caper remake, "Ocean's Eleven."

"O.C." on TV

Our long national nightmare is over - "The O.C." finally returns!

Tonight's second-season premiere answers such nagging questions as: How can a
teen like Seth set sail for points unknown without so much as a compass and some
bottled water? Will his ex-girlfriend Summer ever forgive him? And which
Interpol song will she listen to while trying to figure it out? Is the brooding,
penniless Ryan really a dad, and if so, how will he pay for child support?

Finally: Is there any chance Mischa Barton's boozy Marissa will be speaking in
anything other than a grating monotone this season?

'Halo 2'

Warm up that trigger finger and get ready to lay the smack down on marauding
alien invaders - "Halo 2" is coming your way Tuesday.

It's 2552 and the fate of the Earth is in your hands - as Master Chief, a
genetically enhanced super soldier, you and a handful of troopers are the only
things standing between the alien Covenant armada and the destruction of
humankind.

The sequel to 2001's $225-million grossing "Halo: Combat Evolved" features
enhanced graphics, better artificial intelligence and an alt-metal soundtrack
with an exclusive four-movement suite ("The Odyssey") by Incubus and new tracks
from Hoobastank and Breaking Benjamin.

The coolest new feature? You (and up to 15 others per team) can play against
people around the world through Xbox's online gaming platform, Xbox Live.

Seinfeld on DVD

Relive those golden Clinton years with the upcoming release of the first three
seasons of "Seinfeld" on Nov. 23.

Jerry, Elaine, George and Kramer alienate friends and create enemies in 40
hilarious half-hour episodes about nothing in this eight-disc set, which also
includes another 24 hours of bonus features including documentaries, interviews,
commentaries, gag reels, deleted scenes, trivia and loads more.

Cant wait till then? Next Tuesday sees the release of two five-disc sets of DVDs
devoted to classics with the anarchistic Marx Brothers and W.C. Fields. Boy, can
we use them now.

Sample Sales

Charge away those election blues as sample sale season hits Manhattan.

At the Denise Williamson Showroom sale (Nov. 11-13 at 119 Mercer St.),
high-fashion labels (sass & bide, FrostFrench) meet end-of-season price tags.
Expect to get up to 75 percent off retail.

Aficionados of luxe European fashion shouldn't miss the Valentino and Missoni
sale (Nov. 7-11 at 560 Seventh Ave.) or AEFFE's showroom sale (Nov. 10-12 at 30
W. 56th St.), where prices on Alberta Ferretti, Moschino, Pollini and Jean-Paul
Gaultier start at $25.

Check out the Post's Sunday sales listings for details on where else you can
score designer duds at a discount - like downtown boutique Steven Alan's
clearance, Andrew Marc's leather and outerwear discounts, and Cynthia Rowley's
cute-as-a-button shoe sale.

Laugh fest

The first annual New York Comedy Festival couldn't be better timed: Edgy
stand-up is booming here, and we could all use a little (OK, four years' worth
of) cheering up.

From Nov. 9 to 13, some of the industry's biggest names will appear at venues
around the city: the long-lost Roseanne, Denis "Rescue Me" Leary, master of
deadpan Steven Wright, Drew Carey - and many more. A benefit the night before
the fest will be hosted by Bob Saget, who reportedly works blue when not
introducing wacky video clips involving babies and animals. Go to
nycomedyfestival.com for information and tickets.

The Jets and Jints

Football isn't an obvious choice to cheer up bummed-out Democrats. After all,
this is a game usually associated with Texas, Florida and everyone's new
favorite, Ohio.

But in the NFL, at least, this has been a year for blue-state teams, from the
Minnesota Vikings to the Philadelphia Eagles and John Kerry's own New England
Patriots. New York teams are leading in the polls as well. The Giants are 5-2 in
what was supposed to be a rebuilding year, and the Jets are off to their best
start ever - 6-1, tied with the Patriots for first place in their division.

So go, blues!

- Barbara Hoffman, Megan Lehmann, Lou Lumenick, Russell Scott Smith, Mary Huhn,
Danica Lo, Maxine Shen, Sara Stewart

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - New York Jet. (Anthony J. Causi)  New York Giant. (Getty Images) -
Museum of Modern Art. (Timothy Hursley) - Tee shirt from a sample sale. (Liz
Sullivan) - U2. (Tim Mosenfelder/Getty Images) - Eminem. (Frank Micelotta/Getty
Images) - Laugh your way through "The Foreigner," a hilarious farce starring
Matthew Broderick, opening Sunday. Buy now, buy often: Tickets will go fast.
(Joan Marcus) - New York Jet. (Anthony J. Causi)  New York Giant. (Getty Images)
- Museum of Modern Art. (Timothy Hursley) - Tee shirt from a sample sale. (Liz
Sullivan) - U2. (Tim Mosenfelder/Getty Images) - Eminem. (Frank Micelotta/Getty
Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
