
                               1 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

Warming? Cool it, Al

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 761 words


It's time to chill on global warming.

Has the polar vortex got you down? Are you feeling sympathy for friends in
Atlanta who've endured temperatures frigid enough to drive southerners into the
warm embrace of Johnnie Walker Scotch - if only they can chop themselves out of
snow and ice in time for happy hour? This seems a good time to stop the
deafening chatter of teeth and develop a coherent thought: I envy Al Gore.

I'm jealous of all deluded salesmen of the junk science known by the politically
correct term "climate change'' who see a near future in which our entire planet
turns into sunny Florida. No, wait - during the polar vortex that hit this
country like a cold slap in the face last month, all 50 United States and
Washington, DC, recorded temperatures below freezing. That includes Florida.
Hawaii, too.

Gore, Bill Clinton's vice president who lost the 2000 presidential election to
George W. Bush, has reinvented himself as the world's leading warming guru, a
career that's turned him into a kind of zaftig version of Hollywood movie star
Brad Pitt.

The Oscar-winning 2006 documentary that shows Gore giving a scary slide show,
"An Inconvenient Truth,'' catapulted him into winning the 2007 Nobel Peace
Prize, which he shared with fellow climate hysterics of the UN Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change.

So, will we soon be wearing bikinis in Bismarck in December? (I wish.) Gore's
vision of a world plagued by rising seas and rampant tropical diseases, which he
preaches can be averted only if Americans drive hybrid cars and replace
energy-guzzling dryers with outdoor clothes lines, is as false as the notion
that the ice sheet is melting in the North Pole, threatening to drown frisky
polar bears.

The "entire North Polar ice cap will be gone in five years,'' Gore, now 65, told
a German TV audience in 2008. Wrong.

In fact, receding Arctic ice rebounded between 2012 and 2013, growing by 29
percent into an unbroken patch more than half the size of Europe and within 5
percent of what it was 30 years ago, according to the National Snow and Ice Data
Center.

Last month near the South Pole, a Russian ship carrying scientists and tourists
traveled to the bottom of the Earth so passengers might document global warming
and shrinking ice caps. But the ship got stuck on ice that was thicker than at
any time since records started being kept in 1978. The warming fans were
airlifted to safety by helicopter, leaving behind confused penguins.

And - whoops! - climate scientists conceded last year that the Earth's surface
temperature stopped rising in 1997. (Or did temps take a temporary "pause,'' as
warmists say?) Too bad for makers of jet-skis and tank tops: We might see global
cooling into the 2030s.

Warmists blamed Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and Superstorm Sandy in 2012 on
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. But the hurricane season that ended on Nov.
30, 2013, was among the quietest since 1960, according to an opinion piece by
journalist and attorney Michael Fumento published in The Post.

Just two relatively meek Category 1 hurricanes ('canes go up to Category 5)
formed in the Atlantic Ocean last year. Neither made landfall in the United
States.

Doubt is growing. (Warming disciples dismiss this trend as "global-warming
denial.'') By last November, 23 percent of Americans said they don't believe
global warming is happening - up from just 12 percent in September 2012,
according to a survey by Yale and George Mason universities. Less than half of
Americans, 47 percent, believe global warming is caused by humans, a 7
percentage-point drop from 2012.

But don't express your disenchantment with the cult of warming to the Los
Angeles Times. An editor announced in October that the newspaper does not
publish Letters to the Editor that say global warming isn't real.

President Obama is down with warmists. His administration has proposed
regulations to reduce carbon emissions from power plants. And in his proposed
budget next month, he will ask Congress to set up a $1 billion "Climate Change
Resilience Fund,'' a waste of cash that would be used for research, helping
communities prepare for climate change (by building more swimming pools?) and
funding "breakthrough technologies and resilient infrastructure,'' a White House
spokesman told Politico.com.

But can Obama persuade Congress to go for this at a time when more Americans
than ever are asking why it's so cold?

This frosty winter, be daring and curl up under a blanket made of nonrecycled
fiber. You're bound to have company.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Al Gore. [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

400K turn up the heat Historicclimate protest hits city

BYLINE: Michael Gartland , Amber Sutherland and Leonard Greene

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words


As many as 400,000 drum-beating, poster-waving demonstrators invaded Manhattan
on Sunday, sounding the global-warming alarm in what was billed as the largest
climate-change protest ever.

The People's Climate March - whose participants included celebrities ranging
from Leonardo DiCaprio to Sting - stretched from the Upper West Side to Midtown
ahead of Tuesday's UN summit on reducing carbon emissions.

"Our mission is to make this a decisive moment," Mayor de Blasio told the
throng. "We in New York City are trying to fuel that moment, that opportunity
for profound change."

He predicted the rally and his rollout of a plan to reduce city emissions by 80
percent by 2050 would be "a turning point."

The massive march coincided with climate demonstrations across the globe, from
Britain to India to Australia.

Organizers of the Manhattan event said more than 500 buses had carried
out-of-towners in for the rally, where marchers included former Vice President
Al Gore and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.

Police blocked off traffic on Central Park West from 59th Street to 86th Street
to accommodate the army of students, workers, parents, scientists, beekeepers
and more who joined the march.

Other marching celebs included actors Mark Ruffalo, Edward Norton and Evangeline
Lilly.

Ruffalo said he was there for his kids.

"I want to do my best to give them the best world that they deserve to have,"
the "Avengers" star said.

The crowd sounded the "Climate Alarm" with drums, horns and more than 20
marching bands.

Churches across the city rang bells, as Jewish temples blew shofars.

"Hey, Obama, we don't want no climate drama," one group of students chanted.

Robin Guenther, 59, of Soho, marveled at the demonstration's inclusiveness.

"This is great," the architect said. "What particularly impresses me is the
range of diversity. It's clearly economically diverse. There are laborers,
professionals and young people. This is everyone's issue. It's to send our own
leaders a message that climate change matters."

Stephanie Grant, 30, a data analyst from Kingston, Jamaica, said she was
marching because "people also think it's later, but it's already starting to
happen."

"This is amazing. It's a really good thing. It's epic," she said of the march.

Organizers said there were nearly 400,000 marchers in New York City. The NYPD
does not give crowd numbers.

Several drones flew above the crowd capturing footage. Their operators were told
by the NYPD to ground their toys.

The FAA has set a no-fly zone for planes over the metro area for more than 48
hours beginning Tuesday to protect dignitaries at the UN General Assembly.

Meanwhile, in London, organizers said 40,000 people took part in a climate
march. Among them was actress Emma Thompson and musician Peter Gabriel.

"This is important for every single person on the planet, which is why it has to
be the greatest grass-roots movement of all time," Thompson said. "This is the
battle of our lives."

And a march in Melbourne, Australia, reportedly drew 10,000 people.

Additional reporting by Aaron Short and David K. Li

mgartland@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An ocean rises: Celebrity environmentalists (above from left) Dennis
Kucinich, Mark Ruffalo, Leonard DiCaprio and Edward Norton join the throng
Sunday during the massive People's Climate March, which flooded Sixth Avenue.
[AP; EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Critics cool to marchers

BYLINE: Sophia Rosenbaum and Joe Tacopino

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 321 words


Manhattan's flood of green protesters and eco-friendly celebrities had some
climate-change skeptics getting hot under the collar Sunday.

"The problem with the climate debate is that the alarmists exaggerate the rate
of warming," said Myron Ebell, of the Competitive Enterprise Institute.

"The warming crisis has been avoided and they are becoming even more hysterical
and making wilder and wilder claims."

Ebell said that although the climate-change models have predicted warmer
weather, the numbers show that temperatures have not risen.

"The facts are that in 17 years there hasn't been any warming according to the
data," Ebell said.

David Kreutzer, an economist and research fellow at the conservative think tank
Heritage Foundation, slammed the celebrity A-listers who joined Sunday's march
as hypocrites.

"The ones that fly in on private jets are the most hypocritical," Kreutzer, 61,
told The Post.

"The hypocrisy varies from person to person."

Hollywood stars such as Leo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo, an outspoken opponent of
fracking, paraded through Midtown with people from around the country.

Kreutzer and other critics of the People's Climate March blasted the protesters
for wasting paper and burning fossil fuel while getting to the big event.

"Their love for the Earth is so real, they couldn't even use a trash can,"
tweeted a disgusted @chelsea_elisa, along with a photo of an overflowing trash
can in Manhattan.

The resulting traffic snarls irritated taxi drivers no end, as marchers strolled
from Columbus Circle to 11th Avenue and 34th Street.

"It's a mess," said hard-working hack Gamal Abovelwafa, 60.

Kreutzer argued that it is unlikely that climate change will be the biggest
problem of the 21st century.

"It is phenomenally arrogant to think that 14 years into this century that we
already know the greatest crisis we will face," he said.

sophiarosenbaum@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Father nature: An anti-warming demonstrator indicates his peaceful
intentions at Sunday's march. [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday

THE PLOT AGAINST THE MIDDLE CLASS How tech companies, government bureaucrats and
the media are conspiring against you Elites conspire to crush the middle

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1725 words


Ever get the sense that the middle class is downwardly mobile, being pressed to
the floor and squeezed to the limit? It's not happening by accident. Someone is
doing the squeezing: a new class of entertainment and tech plutocrats, cheered
on and abetted by a priesthood of media, government and academic elites.

Joel Kotkin's "The New Class Conflict" (Telos Press Publishing) paints a dire
picture of the undeclared war on the middle class. What he calls the Oligarchy
(Silicon Valley and Hollywood) and the Clerisy (the media, bureaucrats,
universities and nonprofits) enrich themselves and gratify their own strange
obsessions at the expense of the middle class.

This New Class, for instance, venerates the city and despises suburbia. They
think you should feel the same way - and in innumerable magazine and newspaper
pieces, they twist facts to make it sound as if America loves living in
apartments and taking trains to work.

Though New York and a few other cities have seen population growth over the last
20 years, the real surges are out there, where the space is.

In 2012, nine of the 10 fastest growing metropolitan regions were in the Sun
Belt, mainly in the Southwest. In 2013, lightly regulated Houston saw more
housing starts than the entire state of California, writes Kotkin.

So, suburbanites are punished. In California, where the New Class reigns
supreme, the middle class is being garroted by environmental and anti-sprawl
strictures. Those who wish to live in houses are pushed farther and farther from
their jobs, spending more and more on commuting and energy costs. Proposals
being debated now would, for instance, allow only 3% more housing by 2035 in the
exurban part of the Bay Area.

That will, of course, drive up the cost of housing within the approved
development belt. Which is fine for the plutocracy that already owns property
there.

WAR ON THE SUBURBS

Other California cities are pushing through policies that would radically
restrict the construction of detached single-family homes, requiring a density
of 20 homes per acre in many cases.

In the past 40 years, median home prices have more than doubled relative to
household income in California. In Orange County, a biomedical engineer earning
well over $100,000 may not be able to afford a house, writes Kotkin.

It isn't surprising that the state grows ever more top- and bottom-heavy. With
12% of the nation's population, California is home to about a third of its
welfare recipients, while its 111 billionaires hold a collective $485 billion in
wealth. The middle class is now an actual minority in the state.

Simple revulsion at ordinary American values and aspirations drove the initial
elite snobbery toward the suburbs, which dates at least as far back as 1921.
That's when sociologist Lewis Mumford derided the "dissolute landscape" of "a
no-man's land that was neither town nor country."

Anti-suburban snobbery is now dressed up in a green cloak. "What is causing
global warming is the lifestyle of the American middle class," declared
developer Andrés Duany. Moving people back to urban cores would be a "climate
change antibiotic," said influential architect Peter Calthorpe.

The New Class hasn't noticed that America, even as we "sprawl," has steadily
reduced greenhouse-gas emissions, which have come down nearly every year since
2005 and now stand at 1994 levels.

CARBON TAX ATTACKS

The disaster fantasies of the Oligarchs and the Clerisy continue to obsess them.
That would be fine if they weren't trying to stick the middle class us with the
bill.

Last week, Hollywood oligarch Leonardo DiCaprio headlined a march for climate
change, which in turn was cheered on by the media, the federal government and
nonprofits.

As if to illustrate Kotkin's points about the close coordination of the elite
groups he describes, take a pathetically low-rated Showtime show dedicated to
climate alarmism, called "Years of Living Dangerously." It was produced in part
by tech billionaires such as Paul Allen and Eric Schmidt's wife, Wendy, and
hosted by celebrity "correspondents" such as Harrison Ford and Jessica Alba, was
promoted with an appearance by President Obama, who sat down with New York Times
columnist Thomas Friedman to call for a carbon tax.

Got all that? Government, media, Hollywood and tech: Check, check, check, check.
They're marshalling all of their powers to scare you into compliance.

The opinions of middle-class Americans are irrelevant to the workings of climate
-alarmist machine: By and large, we don't care about climate change. In a March
Gallup poll, climate change came second to last in a list of Americans' chief
worries, well behind issues that the elites shrug off (drug use, the deficit,
crime and illegal immigration).

Yet it's the middle class tax whose taxes subsidize the greeniacs, and it's they
who suffer in the event of any new anticarbon legislation. Such strictures are
designed to drive up the price of energy. Filling your gas tank and heating your
home eats up a high percentage of your income, but these costs mean nothing to
the oligarchy.

A recent carbon-tax law in Australia, exactly the kind of thing Obama was
calling for, was billed as "urgent action to stop climate change."

It came to be understood, more accurately, as a tax on everything. And it would
have virtually zero influence on global warming. Australians, when they figured
out how the Clerisy had tricked them, booted the government responsible and
repealed the tax.

CON JOBS

Higher education is increasingly unaffordable, and many of the same forces are
at work.

The government, with the media Clerisy cheering its efforts, offers cheap loans
to "help the middle class." Those subsidies are in effect a tax that everyone
pays in order to aid the next generation of elites. The extra money siphoned out
of your wallet gets filtered through the government and into the pockets of the
government-promoting universities, whose costs are shooting up because they keep
fattening their payrolls.

Over the last 40 years, university bureaucracy has more than tripled in
population - to some 750,000 administrators, who now outnumber professors on
campus. All told, the universities employ 1.7 million people, most of them
licking their lips at the prospect of indoctrinating 20 million students.

President Obama let the mask slip when he offered to cap payments on, and
ultimately forgive, student loans when the graduate becomes a paid-up, fully
vested member of the Clerisy - spending 10 years in a government or nonprofit
job.

Yep, the regulators will happily pass along the costs of your tuition to the
taxpaying suckers - as long as you join their cult and keep the cycle going.
It's as if the Vatican spared no expense to educate the next generation of
cardinals, then simply decreed that the general public pick up the tab.

Kotkin wonders whether there is a link between the business model of today's
oligarchs and their obvious disdain for the middle class. Previous business
titans - the Fords, Carnegies and Rockefellers - not only employed lots of
middle-class workers but they needed the overall economy to grow to produce more
and more consumers for their products.

Google, on the other hand, which is worth more than seven times as much as GM,
employs one-fifth as many people, and few of those workers can be described as
middle class. Google doesn't add to a thriving middle class, nor does it much
care if one is out there: Like most tech companies, it mainly sells eyeballs. It
has no cause to worry about growing the base of people who can afford major
items like new cars.

Where the old industrial-age titans had a pious glint in their eyes as they
talked up the holy pursuit of American growth, today's oligarchs murmur about
"sustainability." As in sustaining their elite status.

ELITISTS KNOW BEST

Just last week, an archbishop of the Clerisy urged middle-class America to get
over their fears and submit to their natural rulers. New York Times columnist
David Brooks noted that Congress hasn't passed much legislation lately. The
assumption he didn't even need to state is that regulatory growth is, to the
Clerisy, an axiomatically good thing, like economic growth was once held to be.

Brooks thinks we need to solve this alleged "leadership crisis" and get back to
churning out more laws with lots of input from people like him - Brooks is among
those clerics who has secret off-the-record chats with President Obama. You may
think the relationship between a journalist and a politician should be like the
one between a dog and a lamppost, but Brooks' understanding is that the
relationship should be more like the one between one dog and another dog's butt.

Wrote Brooks, "We need to get over the childish notion that we don't need a
responsible leadership class, that power can be wielded directly by the people.
America was governed best when it was governed by a porous, self-conscious and
responsible elite."

Don't bother calling Brooks an elitist. He just called himself one.

The crisis is exactly the opposite of the one the Clerisy detects: The middle
are feeling left out of the decisions. Home Depot shoppers and Subaru wagon
drivers don't have revolutions, but that doesn't mean they're not angry.

"Almost every institution of power," notes Kotkin, "from government and large
corporations to banks and Wall Street, suffers the lowest public esteem ever
recorded."

Many tech moguls, Hollywood and government figures (Al Gore is all three) profit
handsomely (as Gore does) by reeling in public subsidies for the green firms in
which they invest. But some members of the Clerisy aren't wealthy. Their primary
interest, wrote historian Karl Polanyi, is in safeguarding their social assets
and their status. This means steering American life in the direction they
choose.

When Samuel Coleridge first used the term in 1830, he said the clerisy were the
bearers of the highest ideals of society. Their mission was to transmit them to
the less enlightened orders.

What if the rest of us don't necessarily agree with all those ideals? What if we
don't want to be enlightened? What if what we really care about is our jobs and
our paychecks?

Reply the Clerisy and the Oligarchy: Shut up and listen to your betters.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Squeezing the middle class. (Post photo illustration)Google doesn't
care if its business undercuts middleclass jobs, nor does Al Gore care how much
his carbon tax costs them. As Times columnist David Brooks says, "Trust us,
we're smarter than you." (AP; Getty Images; AFP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            September 7, 2014 Sunday

Overheated Subways EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 376 words


Back in 2007, Al Gore was awarded the Nobel Prize for his work on climate
change. In his acceptance speech, the former vice president warned the polar ice
cap was "falling off a cliff." He cited a study showing that "it could happen in
as little as seven years."

Well, 2014 has now arrived. But studies show that not only has the ice cap not
disappeared the way Gore had suggested it would, it has increased in size by
43%.

We mention this only because the Metropolitan Tranportation Authority has just
completed a study about what global warming will mean for our city's subways.

It says the system will be more vulnerable to flooding and malfunctions if
global warming raises temperatures. The findings by the agency's Transportation
Reinvention Commission will help "inform the MTA's 2015-2019 Capital Plan," says
its Web site.

After the city's experience with Sandy, we doubt there are many New Yorkers who
aren't happy to see the MTA take steps to help insulate the subway system from
the wrath of Mother Nature. Joe Lhota, who was running the MTA when Sandy
struck, in fact did a yeoman's job of protecting the system and getting it up
and running again when the storm was over.

We just believe that there are many more immediate issues facing the MTA. Not
because there aren't threats from nature. But because many of the dire
predictions about climate change - like Gore's about the polar ice - have proved
unreliable.

After all, it's not as if there isn't plenty the MTA could be doing to improve
the system. That includes measures as small as countdown clocks in all stations.
Not to mention dealing with bedbug outbreaks and finally finishing the Second
Avenue subway. And if the MTA wants to worry about something, it could start
with its perpetually squeezed capital program.

In July, state Comptroller Tom DiNapoli warned the program may be as much as $12
billion short. Even if the commission is right about the climate threat, it's
not going to matter if the MTA doesn't have the money to pay for the needed
upgrades and infrastructure.

So while we're glad to see the MTA looking for ways to meet future challenges,
we'd say riders would be better served by a little more attention to the
fundamentals of the here and now.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 16, 2014 Sunday

You're fired! O to working Americans

BYLINE: MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 679 words


The late Israeli statesman Abba Eban once said Palestinian leaders "never miss
an opportunity to miss an opportunity." He could have been talking about Barack
Obama.

Given another chance to do what he claims he wants to do - "get stuff done" to
help the "folks" - the president instead is giving most Americans the back of
his hand. His post-election agenda is the same agenda he had before the public
told him No, Hell No.

His plans are worse than wrong. They are destructive to the people he says he
wants to help.

His top three items are immigration, climate change and the minimum wage. Each
will penalize people who work for a living.

On immigration, his plan to legalize up to 5 million aliens with the stroke of a
pen is certain to invite more illegals to come to America and put a drag on
working-class wages.

The Swiss-cheese border will see another surge if he rewards those who came here
illegally. Worse, giving millions of immigrants the legal right to work puts
them in direct competition with Americans working at factories, farms and low-
and semi-skilled jobs everywhere.

With most incomes stagnant or falling for more than a decade, suddenly adding
millions of legal new workers to the labor pool will put more pressure on more
pay checks. Americans already having trouble making ends meet will be worse off
thanks to the president.

Their kids will take a hit, too, and already there are reports of classroom
squeezes to make room for thousands of young refugees, including on Long Island.
State officials say some schools might cancel sports teams to pay for the high
cost of these new students, few of whom speak English.

Obama's climate change deal with China will unleash a slew of punitive
regulations he held back until after the election, meaning two impacts are
certain: Jobs will be lost in coal and oil production, and the cost of energy
will increase across the country.

The double whammy of pain will yield no climate gain because the deal lets China
add even more carbon pollution until 2030, at which point it promises to do . .
. nothing. Meanwhile, America would begin to throttle back immediately.

As for a big national hike in the minimum wage, it would help less than 5
percent of workers, most of them teenagers, while a federal study estimated the
move would lead to the loss of 500,000 jobs. Already the unemployment rate for
people under age 24 is double the full national rate, and it's about 20 percent
for young black Americans.

So once again, the president's plan would tighten the job market just as he
expands the labor supply. That could mean less income for many people stuck in
low-wage jobs.

Surely the president has been warned about the impact his agenda items will have
on working- and middle-class Americans. That he still embraces them reveals
again that he is a callous ideologue who listens only to the sound of his own
voice.

He is also tuning out the growing global disorder. At about the same time his
Chinese hosts were lecturing America, Russia sent more tanks and troops into
Ukraine.

If anyone doubted his intent, Vladimir Putin also vowed to send long-range
bombers to the Gulf of Mexico. The announcement gave no clear purpose, but none
was needed. It is another way for Putin to taunt Obama, knowing there will be no
consequences.

Not to be left out of the anti-American hate-fest, Islamic State and al Qaeda
announced they are joining forces. Islamic State also released an audio tape it
said was from its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who apparently survived an
airstrike. He called on terrorists to "erupt volcanoes of jihad everywhere."

Meanwhile, the Obama plan to train moderate Syrian rebels to fight those groups
remains on hold. Rear Adm. John Kirby said on TV, "The vetting hasn't started.
Once it does start, that will be about a three- to five-month process and then
it's about eight to nine months of training after that. So we still got a ways
to go."

Really, what's the hurry? Obama has two more years to further screw up America
and the world.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama as Donald Trump. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

Illegal protest all wet 100 busted as throngs 'Flood Wall Street'

BYLINE: Ben Feuerherd , Amanda Lozada and Sophia Rosenbaum

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 293 words


Police wearing riot gear clashed with protesters and arrested at least 100
activists during an illegal march Monday as hundreds tried to "Flood Wall
Street."

The march against capitalism and "the climate crisis" started as a sit-in
protest, with a sea of activists taking over Broadway near the iconic Charging
Bull sculpture , where they held aloft a large, inflatable beach ball painted
gray and black with the words, "The Carbon Bubble."

A cop used a knife to deflate the prop.

Police crushed another ball some 30 minutes later.

Two hours in, protesters became angry when cops pepper-sprayed and arrested
those who tried to break through barricades to make it to the New York Stock
Exchange.

The Flood Wall Street march, an extension of Sunday's People's Climate March -
which brought 400,000 people out to spur action on global warming - snarled
traffic and clogged sidewalks on lower Broadway all day.

"I don't think they know what they want," said Casey Fleming, who couldn't get
to Duane Reade because of the barricades.

Marchers headed toward Wall Street at around 4 p.m., only to be met by police
armed with pepper spray and plastic handcuffs.

Among those arrested were arrested were 25-year-old Elliot Hughes, who climbed a
phone booth and was trying to yell out to the crowd .

Organizers said they did not obtain a permit, but cops resisted making mass
arrests because "the NYPD recognizes the people's rights to free speech and
public protest," according to a statement.

Local politicians, including City Councilmen Ydanis Rodriguez and Jumaane
Williams, marched alongside the protesters.

"People should be able to make money, but not at the expense of hurting people,"
Williams said.

Additional reporting by Matt McNulty

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Busted: Officers bring a protester to the ground and arrest him Monday
during the Flood Wall Street march intended to spur action on climate change and
capitalism. [NYPost: Chad Rachman]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 26, 2014 Friday

Zealots in a haze of hypocrisy

BYLINE: ANDREA PEYSER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 154 words


Some of the more than 300,000 deep thinkers who marched in Sunday's People's
Climate March, from actors Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo to Mayor de
Blasio, environmentalist Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and former Vice President Al
Gore, left behind mounds of trash. Meanwhile, the march caused traffic chaos in
Manhattan as idling cars spewed exhaust into the atmosphere. That's on top of
the greenhouse gases emitted by airplanes bringing scenesters to New York City.

The dirt continued to build on Monday as protesters at a Flood Wall Street march
against capitalism and climate change staged a sit-in at the Financial District.
More than 100 were arrested on disorderly-conduct charges by cops wielding
pepper spray. This was before the traffic-snarling Climate Summit 2014 at the
United Nations on Tuesday.

You can doubt whether global warming exists and still object to the increased
pollution created by planet-huggers.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday

Media City Heavenly bodies

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 789 words


With Memorial Day weekend in the rearview mirror, bikini season is just around
the corner. There's still time to find the right exercises, sunscreen, bathing
suit, sundresses and salad recipes to get you prepared for the upcoming
sweltering heat.

Long before there were selfies, there was Self magazine, the paean to narcissism
that turned into a movement that has taken over many of the bookstore and
magazine shelves. While much of the magazine offers the standard fare of
workouts and sporty-looking bathing suits, we were impressed by the spread on
salads - really. The photos were fresh and the recipes inventive. Who knew there
was a steak and peach salad? If we get one new idea we think we're golden, but
here's another: replace croutons with roasted chickpeas. We also liked the
Western wear spread and a nice promotion of chunky white sandals you can
actually walk in. And you'll have to walk, because you won't be able to afford
taxi fare after forking over about $1,200 for a pair of Christian Louboutins.

Women's Health offers more of the same - with more emphasis on health than on
working out. The design isn't quite as mod as Self's, but we've always been a
fan of yellow highlighting, even if the phrase being highlighted is as inane as,
"You have to kiss a lot of frogs - more than a dozen before you find a prince."
Probably the biggest health tip is an article called "Exposed: Sun Mistakes
You're Probably Making." It's a good idea for a refresher course in case the sun
ever comes out this summer. But our favorite is a really tragic story about
country star Miranda Lambert, who thought she was chunky at a size 8 and lost 20
pounds to avoid tabloid shame.

When a magazine is called "Shape," perhaps it's not surprising that it has 22
boring pages of women with toned abs wearing crop tops and yoga pants in various
exercise poses. Then there's "The View" co-host Jenny McCarthy, who just wears
her bikini panties and ties up a T-shirt under her breasts to make the same
point before donning exercise gear to do a "star workout." We did like the
series of swimsuit layouts in various designs, from flowers to candy, primarily
because having one model surrounded by several bikini options reminded us of
dressing paper dolls. But seriously, how many bathing suits does a magazine need
to offer? The June issue of Shape, in case you're wondering, has dozens.

Fitness is the least interesting of the bunch, we're sorry to report, but at
least it had only nine pages of exercise poses. We did find its sunburn warnings
helpful, and we also were impressed by a feature on kickboxing, which took the
exercise tips to a new level. Another article, on new ways to use the grill -
like peach and rhubarb crumble - was unusual enough to merit a read.

The timing should be right for a behind-the-scenes look at Hillary Clinton and
how the assumed Democratic presidential candidate responds to Karl Rove's
suggestion, later softened, that she might have brain damage. New Yorker's
renowned media critic Ken Auletta offers a cover story that's just a tease with
few real details. Auletta provides more insight on the conservative media
attacking Hillary than Hillary herself. This feels like he missed the story.
Clinton is close to publishing a memoir, "Hard Choices," giving her side of how
as secretary of state she handled the Benghazi, Libya, attack that killed an
American ambassador. Auletta gives no details as to what the former secretary of
state plans to say in her defense, even though her explanation of the alleged
cover-up may be the key to her election prospects. Elsewhere there's an
interview with Richard Williams, father of tennis greats Venus and Serena. He
reveals how he wore a Ku Klux Klan hood to launch a sneak attack against a white
man when growing up in Shreveport, La.

Time Inc. is preparing to spin off from Time Warner June 6, becoming essentially
a new company. And to raise more revenue the new Time has a barely visible
advertisement on its cover under the bar code. The good news is the new issue
tackles some interesting and under-covered topics. A cover story on "Saving
Preemies" details advances in just the last two years. We also like a feature on
hedge-fund billionaire Tom Steyer and his campaign to fund candidates who aim to
do something about climate change. He plans to spend $50 million on 2014
campaigns. There is an ironic twist in that; while severe drought is gripping
much of the country, climate change is not polling as a big political issue. So
Steyer, to a degree, is having a hard time getting politicos to champion his
cause.

---

ON THE NEWSSTAND

Self: 2 stars

Women's Health: 2

Shape: 1 1/2

The New Yorker: 2

Time: 2 1/2

Fitness: 1

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

NY 'warm'mongering

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 73 words


By the year 2050, New York will likely be as hot in summer as Birmingham, Ala.,
and melting glaciers will raise sea levels by a foot and a half, making some
neighborhoods unlivable, according to scary predictions by the New York City
Panel on Climate Change. But global warming has "paused'' since the 1990s and we
just experienced one of the city's coolest summers in at least a decade.

Why ruin government alarmists' fun with facts?

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

Frack, Baby, Frack! Get off your gas, Andy! Fed-up critics fume

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 317 words


It's about frackin' time Gov. Cuomo rules on whether to allow controversial
drilling for natural gas, supporters and opponents said Thursday.

Cuomo declined to pick a side, but reiterated Thursday that a health study he
commissioned on the impact of hydraulic fracturing will be released by year's
end to inform his decision.

Cuomo was asked whether the analysis conducted by scientists with the state
Department of Health will take into account whether fracking contributes to
climate change.

"I would assume that they would, but you know, as I've said, I'm not a
scientist, so in life I believe, know what you don't know," the governor said on
the Albany radio show "The Capital Pressroom."

"This is not what I do. I'm a lawyer, and it is what they do, so I'm leaving it
to them," added the governor, referring to health experts.

Cuomo's failure to make a decision has infuriated both supporters and opponents.

"We urge Gov. Cuomo to join the governors of 34 states that are ­enjoying
booming economies as they safely move forward with this American energy
revolution," said Dan Fitzsimmons, president of the pro-fracking Joint
Landowners Coalition of New York.

Cuomo agrees that fracking would create jobs and boost the economy. But he has
been paralyzed over the health claims and opposition from environmentalists, who
wield clout within the Democratic Party.

Fractivists - including prominent celebrities Yoko Ono and Mark Ruffalo - show
up at virtually all of Cuomo's public events, including when he voted on
Tuesday.

Fracking is a "health and environmental disaster," said Alex Beauchamp of Food &
Water Watch and spokesman for New Yorkers Against Fracking.

"The low Democratic turnout in New York state [in Tuesday's election] . . .
reflects that many voters were not inspired by Cuomo's failure to take action
against fracking," Beauchamp said.

ccampanile@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

Get off your gas, gov! Fed-up critics fume FRACK, BABY, FRACK!

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 487 words


It's about frackin' time Gov. Cuomo rules on whether to allow controversial
drilling for natural gas, supporters and opponents said Thursday.

Cuomo declined to pick a side, but reiterated Thursday that a health study he
commissioned on the impact of hydraulic fracturing will be released by year's
end to inform his decision.

Cuomo was asked whether the analysis conducted by the Health Department will
take into account whether fracking contributes to climate change.

"I would assume that they would, but you know, as I've said, I'm not a
scientist, so in life I believe, know what you don't know," the governor said on
the Albany radio show "the Capital Pressroom."

"This is not what I do. I'm a lawyer, and it is what they do, so I'm leaving it
to them," added the governor, referring to health experts.

Fracking is a drilling technique that mixes chemicals and water to smashes deep
into bedrock and capture pockets of natural gas.

Thanks to a moratorium, New York is the only one of the 35 states with gas
reserves that is not fracking. New York's Southern Tier is part of the Marcellus
shale region that borders Pennsylvania.

Unlike New York, the Keystone State allows fracking on its side.

Cuomo's failure to make a decision and settle the divisive issue has only
infuriated both supporters and opponents.

"We urge Gov. Cuomo to join the governors of 34 states that are enjoying booming
economies as they safely move forward with this American energy revolution,"
said Dan Fitzsimmons, president of the pro-fracking Joint Landowners Coalition
of New York.

Fitzsimmons pointed out that "pro-gas" legislators in the Southern Tier defeated
fracking opponents in Tuesday's election.

"We see first-hand the experience from our neighbors in Pennsylvania, and we are
tired of paid activists from outside our region spreading misinformation and
fear," Fitzsimmons said.

Cuomo agrees that fracking would create jobs and boost the economy. But he has
been paralyzed over the health claims and opposition from environmental
leftists, who wield clout within the Democratic Party.

Fractivists - including prominent celebrities Yoko Ono and Mark Garafalo, as
well as Cuomo's ex-brother-in-law Robert Kennedy Jr. - show up at virtually all
of Cuomo's public events, including when he voted on Tuesday.

And public polling shows that a majority of voters oppose fracking.

Fracking would be a "health and environmental disaster," said Alex Beauchamp of
Food & Water Watch and spokesman for New Yorkers Against Fracking.

"The low Democratic turnout in New York State [in Tuesday's election] . . .
reflects that many voters were not inspired by Cuomo's failure to take action
against fracking," Beauchamp said.

QUOTE

"I'm not a scientist, so in life I believe, know what you don't know." -Gov.
Cuomo, on why he's waiting for an impact study to take a position on fracking

ccampanile@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 14, 2014 Friday

China check out Waldorf deal scrutiny

BYLINE: Josh Kosman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 402 words


A long-awaited thaw in frozen US-China relations can't come soon enough for
Steve Schwarzman.

Blackstone Group is eager to close the $1.95 billion sale of New York's Waldorf
Astoria hotel to a Chinese buyer this year, while US officials dither over
whether to launch a review to assess the potential security risks.

To speed things up, the Schwarzman-led buyout behemoth is mulling asking the
government to go ahead with an investigation. The firm can file its own request
for a review rather than wait for officials to act, sources said.

"They are very confident" the deal will not be stopped, a source close to the
private-equity firm said.

Blackstone-owned Hilton Worldwide Holdings announced Oct. 6 that it was selling
the Waldorf to Beijing-based Anbang Insurance Group for $1.95 billion, the most
expensive deal ever for a single hotel. The deal gelled after China relaxed its
rules and allowed insurance companies to invest 15 percent of their capital
outside the country.

The Waldorf deal is slated to close Dec. 31, although the companies can agree to
a March 31 extension, "subject to certain additional limited adjournments,"
Hilton said in a regulatory filing.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States is split over whether
the pending sale of the luxury hotel, which happens to be home to the US
ambassador to the United Nations, poses any potential spying threat, according
to sources.

CFIUS comprises officials from Treasury, which leads the group, along with the
Department of Defense and Homeland Security.

President Obama and UN dignitaries often stay at the 83-year-old Art Deco hotel
- one of only two in the city the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic
Security has deemed safe enough for top-level officials. The other is the
InterContinental New York Barclay.

Despite a breakthrough climate change pact and other signs of softening between
the US and China, there's still plenty of paranoia and distrust on both sides.

When it comes to the Waldorf, the underlying concern is that the Chinese will
spy on a hotel where world leaders are known to hold top-secret discussions and
much of the UN's business gets done.

Blackstone argues that the President stays in foreign hotels when he travels and
his security detail sweeps rooms for "bugs" regardless of the hotel owner.

A Blackstone spokesman declined to comment.

jkosman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE: Natalie O'Neill

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 270 words


Three mimes were laid off from SeaWorld - leaving the performers, well,
speechless.

The rare species of actors had appeared in the Clyde & Seamore show, where they
hammed it up alongside a sea lion and an otter.

More than 300 other workers were also fired due to cutbacks at the Orlando
aquatic park.

No, um, word on whether newer, cheaper mimes would replace them.

They're treating these squirrels like scapegoats!

Scientists now say arctic squirrels play a greater role in climate change than
previously thought.

The furry critters release carbon by digging into the frozen ground, a group of
researchers recently told the American Geophysical Union.

Nothing's more fun than . . . war?

A G.I. Joe "amusement park" is set to open in Florida - complete with sandbagged
"foxholes," a 1971 Army transport truck and water slides.

The theme park's sign boasts that it will be "a rival to Disney World."

It will rise next to Big ­Kahuna's Amusement and Water Park in Destin, planners
said.

Wheely dumb!

A Nebraska man was busted for drunken driving after cops spotted him motoring on
four flat tires with an inflated air bag.

Richard Curzon, 57, allegedly tried to make a break for it - with no air in his
tires - after cops pulled him over in Omaha, police sources said.

He was charged with his fourth DUI.

Man bit dog.

A man chomped a Staffordshire bull terrier after getting into a fight with the
pooch's 45-year-old owner in Massachusetts, police sources said.

But the man's bark apparently was worse than his bite. After the struggle, he
ran off wearing no shoes, the sources said.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Don't Bet on It in '14 A year of won't-be-happening

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 731 words


With the New Year upon us, predictions of what will happen in 2014 are coming in
strong. Here's my annual list of things you can be sure you won't see next year:

l Hillary Clinton will kick off her 2016 presidential campaign with the slogan,
"Really, now: What difference, at this point, does it make?"

l No newspaper, magazine, Web site or TV station - anywhere - will mention a
single word about Kim Kardashian.

l After leaving City Hall for good, Mike Bloomberg will vanish completely from
the political stage.

l He'll then start an international conglomerate that specializes in the
manufacture of guns, cigarettes and large sugary beverages.

l US professors will launch a boycott against Palestinians for waging terror
attacks against Israelis.

l New York will acquire a branch of the Republican Party.

l ObamaCare will extend health insurance to more Americans.

l ObamaCare will make it easier for Americans to see the doctors they like.

l ObamaCare will bend the nation's health-cost curve downward.

l ObamaCare will improve medical care for Americans.

l If you like your current health plan, well, you know . . .

l Someone will fill the shoes of Yankee closer Mariano Rivera.

l Gov. Cuomo will put the state's future above his own and end the 5-year-old
"temporary" ban on fracking in New York.

l With US troops gone, Afghanistan will become a shining model of liberal
democracy, an economic powerhouse and a formidable ally in the War on Terror.

l Assembly Speaker Shelly Silver will be given the nation's highest award for
Most Ethical Political Leader.

l Republicans in Congress will shut down government - just for fun.

l Despite operating under the yoke of crippling union contracts, New York's
traditional public schools will outperform union-free charter schools.

l Secretary of State John Kerry will convince Iran to truly abandon its
nuclear-weapons program and surrender its stock of enriched uranium.

l Following his success in Iran, Kerry will persuade Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad to step down. Key to his success will be his threats of US military
reprisals.

l US Attorney Preet Bharara will be unable to find a single New York politician
to indict.

l A&E will sever ties with all progressives. MSNBC will follow suit.

l New Yorkers will draft Ted Cruz to run against Andrew Cuomo as governor. Both
will lose to . . . Donald Trump.

l Barack Obama will draw a red line - and stick to it.

l Serial sex-harasser and ex-Assemblyman Vito Lopez will be hired to run the
Girl Scouts of America.

l Miley Cyrus will be caught in a flagrant act of modesty.

l Newly installed Mayor de Blasio will cut taxes on the rich, blast the unions
as selfish and tell them there's no money for back raises - because there isn't.

l  The IRS will target liberal groups for special tax treatment.

l Alec Baldwin will win the Emily Post Etiquette Award.

l The Tax Foundation's State Business Tax Climate will rank New York as the best
state in the nation in which to do business.

l The Tax Foundation's State Business Tax Climate will rank New York in the top
40 states to do business.

l Ex-NBA star Dennis Rodman will end his friendship with North Korean ruler Kim
Jong Un, stating that he no longer wishes to be best buds with a nuclear-armed
lunatic who executes people close to him.

l Eliot Spitzer will apologize for his crudeness, dishonesty and selfishness,
vow to stay out the public eye - and really mean it.

l Anthony Weiner will apologize for his crudeness, dishonesty and selfishness,
vow to stay out of the public eye - and really mean it.

l President Obama will go mano-a-mano with Russia's Vladimir Putin in a
diplomatic showdown - and win.

l De Blasio will end the NYPD's stop-and-frisk program, and the record-low
number of murders in New York will plunge even further.

l A clandestine US operation will result in the capture and arrest of Edward
Snowden for betraying his country and leaking sensitive counterterrorism
information.

l More kids than not will graduate New York's public schools ready for college
or a career.

l Sen. Chuck Schumer will cancel one of his regular Sunday press conferences.

l The office of New York City public advocate will play an important role in . .
. something.

l Pundits will finally stop making predictions.

Happy new year!

abrodsky@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peace talks by Secretary of State John Kerry have resulted in the
release of Palestinian prisoners, but don't expect much change in the Mideast in
2014. [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday

BILL OF HEALTH NYC development surge will continue under the new mayor

BYLINE: and STEVE CUOZZO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1019 words


Developers can relax - Mayor Bill de Blasio won't turn New York City into a
communistic realm where no one can build a candy store without including
"affordable" apartments.

City Hall's minions will not shut down construction at the World Trade Center,
nor halt moves by Coach Inc. and L'Oréal - and possibly Time Warner - to Hudson
Yards.

Oligarchs won't be hauled out of their 15 Central Park West abodes so the
apartments can be turned into homeless shelters.

Jeff Sutton's game-changing retail project at 100 W. 125th St., which will bring
Whole Foods to central Harlem in 2015, faces no risk of being padlocked.

Rose Associates won't stop its $550 million conversion of 70 Pine St., the
former AIG tower, to luxury rental apartments because the new mayor wants to
build 100,000 more affordable units citywide. Nor is it likely the new
administration will tinker with plans the city previously green-lighted for
ambitious projects yet to break ground - such as the humanely scaled, mixed-use
Essex Crossing, between Delancey and Broome Streets.

It doesn't mean the city's new leadership doesn't spell a change in the
development climate - of course it does. But contrary to fears, it may be more
incremental than revolutionary.

Less jittery dealmakers can take comfort in the fact that as a city council
member and as public advocate, de Blasio was no knee-jerk anti-development
advocate, but more of a pragmatist. He voted for Forest City Ratner's Atlantic
Yards proposal and for several major up-zonings. His decision to keep
Bloomberg's Economic Development Corp. president Kyle Kimball is a welcome sign
of continuity. There are enough fully entitled, publicly approved mega-projects
underway to keep the tower cranes busy for four more years - no matter what
policies City Hall adopts - and to advance the Bloomberg-era vision far into the
future. Among them: the World Trade Center, Hudson Yards, Atlantic Yards, the
Cornell-Technion biotech campus on Roosevelt Island and the Empire Outlets on
Staten Island.

The plan for the $850 million, mixed-use Flushing Commons complex in Queens was
approved by the city nearly four years ago. It, too, is untouchable now that the
developers closed in December on the site purchase. Large projects such as
Silverstein Properties' 82-story, 30 Park Place hotel/condo tower and Durst
Fetner's "pyramid" on West 57th Street similarly can continue to go up on
schedule.

Brookfield's $4.5 billion Manhattan West office/residential/retail plan atop the
Amtrak rail yards between Ninth and 10th Avenues has yet to sign up tenants but
also has necessary approvals in place, and construction of a deck over the yard
is well underway.

But it could be another story for jumbo enterprises, which have only begun to
pass through the city's Uniform Land Use Review Procedure - notably Two Trees
Management's $1.5 billion mixed-use complex planned at the former Domino Sugar
plant site in Brooklyn. And although tax breaks have been approved for the first
phase of the $3 billion Willets Point project in Queens, its developers will
still need help from City Hall to see it through.

The days are likely past, however, for the kind of big-ticket, Bloomberg-era
initiatives - such as city funding for the No. 7 subway extension to Hudson
Yards.

But de Blasio says he recognizes the need to rezone East Midtown to allow larger
new office towers, albeit on different terms than those proposed under Bloomberg
- whose failure to push the measure through before he left office left some
ambitious plans in limbo.

Developers might also have to work harder with the city to negotiate variances
from as-of-right regulations at specific sites. While de Blasio has pledged to
"demand" that developers create low-cost housing, he has no way to require them
to do so in projects requiring no zoning changes, tax incentives or other
municipal favors. But he could require more affordable units at sites where
developers receive tax-exempt bond financing than those needed under the current
80-20 program. Developers might have to crunch the numbers to see if, say, 75-25
works for them.

The prospect of even incremental new rules can be daunting given the number of
things that can go wrong - such as last week's court ruling to block for now a
major part of NYU's expansion. Yet, the overwhelming majority of new projects
are built as-of-right. Real Estate Board of New York president Steven Spinola
said, "We believe fewer than 10 percent have to go through ULURP."

Major AOR projects in recent years include 730 Lexington Ave. - home to
Bloomberg LP, luxury condos, stores and restaurants - and Boston Properties' new
office tower at 250 W. 55th St. They include, as well, most of the super-luxury
condo towers deplored by Bloomberg's critics - including CIM/Harry Macklowe's
fast-rising 432 Park Ave. and Extell's planned 1,424-foot-tall 217 W. 57th St.

Some fear that even without statutory changes, "progressive" rhetoric from a
mayor more passionate about income inequality than about the city's
world-capital status will have a discouraging effect - and that de Blasio's
words alone could stifle development momentum more than 9/11 and the crash of
2009 temporarily did. But the city's underlying strengths remain. New York's
enduring magnetism continues to attract global wealth and commerce.

Massey Knakal chairman Robert Knakal predicted in the Commercial Observer that
2014 will be a banner year for investment-sale volume and prices, topping the
record $62 billion worth of properties sold in 2007. Manhattan office
availability dipped to a major market low of 10.8 percent, according to Cassidy
Turley's report on a "monumental" fourth quarter. That was despite the
completion of 4.1 million square feet of new inventory. The firm also reported
Midtown Class-A asking rents topped $80 per square foot for the first time in
five years.

Numbers like those speak louder than rhetoric. But if de Blasio is as much of a
realist as his prior record suggests, developers can look forward to a highly
profitable future, even if they sweat a bit for it.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : WEST CHELSEA: WEST IS BEST: Brookfield Properties is investing
$4.5billion in the massive Manhattan West above the Amtrak railyards; it will be
a mixed-used project combining office space, residential and retail. BROOKLYN:
BGOOD: The pragmatist in Bill de Blasio voted for Forest City Ratner's Atlantic
Yards- which includes B2, the modular housing project. FIDI: OPEN SEASON:
Silverstein Properties is developing 30 Park Place,which will consist of a
189-room Four Seasons hotel and 157 luxury condos. ROOSEVELT ISLAND:  TECHS ME
LATER: Cornell Technion is building a campus with open spaces and residential
and academic buildings on Roosevelt Island. FIDI: ONE PINE DAY: The former AIG
building will be luxury rentals and long-term suites, as well as retail (Brian
Zak/NY Post). STATEN ISLAND: THE STATE OF THE EMPIRE: Empire Outlets is a $580
million project consisting of 350,000 square feet of retail space; it is slated
to open on Staten Island near the St. George waterfront in 2016. WEST SIDE:
HUDSON ERUPTION: Construction is underway at Hudson Yards,which will be the home
of L'Oréal and Coach and maybe Time Warner (Christian Johnston).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Clive's photo finish Davis' Grammy pic goes to THR from People

BYLINE: KEITH J. KELLY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 824 words


The famous Clive Davis Grammy party photo at the Beverly Hilton has resurfaced
in The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard this year - two years after last running
in People.

The photos are in THR's issue that hits Wednesday.

The photo had been a staple at People for nearly a decade, from 2004 to 2011,
but it looks like People was not pushing too hard to bring it back this year.

The streak was interrupted by the untimely overdose death of Whitney Houston at
the Beverly Hilton two years ago, only a day before she was to have attended the
annual bash of the recording industry mogul who had shaped her early meteoric
career.

The party that year went on anyway, but Davis turned it into a Whitney tribute.

Last year, Davis released his autobiography at the event, generating coverage
about his bisexuality and stars he managed, ranging from Houston to Kelly
Clarkson.

Two weeks ago, the deck shuffled at People, with top editor Larry Hackett
getting the old heave-ho, replaced as editor by Jess Cagle from Entertainment
Weekly - but the photo streak appeared likely to end even before the shake-up.

"We were delighted to feature exclusive photos from Clive's Grammy party from
2004 to 2011," a People spokeswoman said. "However, after eight years we decided
it was time for a change. We wish him and the Recording Academy all the best
with this event."

At one point, Davis's party was the only pre-Grammy party that mattered, but in
recent years, other competing soirees have cropped up on the same day, including
one tossed by People itself and others thrown by 50 Cent, Primary Wave Music and
others.

"Five years ago that never would have happened," said one music industry source.

Still this year's Clive photo did pull in stars from Jennifer Hudson to Miley
Cyrus, the Foo Fighters and Imagine Dragons.

"It all just fell into place," said Janice Min, co-president of Guggenheim
Media, which owns THR, who had breakfast with Davis last Thursday where they
hatched the deal.

Min said THR paid no money for the photos.

"I think he appreciates THR," Min noted. "If you want to talk to Hollywood, THR
is the place to be. It's the high-end high school newspaper of Hollywood."

News leak

The imminent layoffs at Time Inc. are expected to cut close to 500 people, or
about 6 percent of the work force, reliable sources tell Media Ink.

One source said the target date for an announcement is now Feb. 4 - although it
could be sped up now that news of the cuts is beginning to leak.

The company had pink-slipped about 500 from its 8,000-person work force about a
year ago.

The exact employment numbers at the nation's largest magazine publisher could
not be determined at presstime - but after the 2013 cuts, the total number has
slowly inched up again, especially after it acquired the American Express
Publishing Company.

Time Inc. has also added people in the mobile and digital side of editorial
operations at its Time, Sports Illustrated and Fortune titles.

The prospect of imminent layoffs in both the business and editorial side was
confirmed some weeks ago by Time Inc. Chief Content Officer Norm Pearlstine at
the company's quarterly management meeting.

CEO Joe Ripp is trying to re-engineer Time Inc. in preparation for its pending
spinoff into an independent company.

Time Warner is still hoping the initial public offering gets done in the second
quarter.

Time Inc. and Time Warner declined to comment on the layoff speculation.

Mash up

In the first big moves at Mashable since it took on $13.3 million in venture
financing earlier this month, Chief Content Officer Jim Roberts is shaking up
the ranks.

The job of editor-in-chief, held by Lance Ulanoff, has been eliminated. Ulanoff
will now be chief correspondent and editor-at-large.

Roberts told Media Ink that nobody will be filling the editor-in-chief job, but
he said he does not regard the new job as a demotion.

"Lance reported to me as he still does," said Roberts, a veteran of the New York
Times who had a short stint at Reuters last year before resigning in the wake of
editorial shake-ups there.

Roberts joined Mashable in November.

"Lance is one of the smartest voices in technology coverage out there. I want
his byline on the site and want more video. He's also going to develop a plan
for more opinion content."

Another former editor-in-chief of the site, Adam Ostrow, remains chief strategy
officer.

Roberts said some of the funding is being used to open offices in London and Los
Angeles.

"Opening offices in London and LA are a very big part of his mission," said
Roberts.

Elsewhere, Mashable hired Andrew Freedman to cover climate and extreme weather,
a new position. Freedman had been a senior editor at Climate Central.

The funding by Updata Partners in January was the first outside vendor financing
since the company was founded eight years ago.

kkelly@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Battle of the brands: Hollywood Reporter scored a major coup, snagging
the rights from People magazine to run the glam photo (above) from this year's
pre-Grammy gala thrown by Clive Davis.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 15, 2014 Saturday

Bloomy 'Blas't Mike tweaks Bill on parade snub

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 449 words


Ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg tried hard not to criticize his successor during a
34-minute interview with Katie Couric - but he just couldn't help it.

Without calling out Mayor de Blasio by name, Bloomberg said it was a mistake to
boycott the St. Patrick's Day Parade for not allowing gays to march openly,
saying that isn't an effective way to change people's minds.

De Blasio and other prominent elected officials have said that they are not
marching in Monday's Midtown display of Irish pride.

"I think by boycotting, it doesn't get it done. If anything, it hardens the
views," he told Couric at her new Yahoo News post. "It makes it harder for
anybody to change if you force them into a corner. That's just not the way I
would do it."

When Couric pressed Bloomberg on whether that meant he disagrees with de
Blasio's decision not to march, he wouldn't criticize the current mayor
directly.

"Bill de Blasio's got to make his decision, and I respect his decision - he's
the mayor," said Bloomberg.

But he added, "Generally speaking, I think when you force people in corners, it
isn't as useful."

Despite insisting he's supportive of de Blasio, Bloomberg also challenged his
plans to tax the wealthy and to oppose charter schools.

"Trying to tax people and having them move or companies do their business
elsewhere - it sounds good, it's great populist rhetoric, but it's a disaster,"
Bloomberg said.

He said charter schools generally provide students - mostly low-income and
minority kids - with a great education, and suggested the battle over
space-sharing arrangements between traditional public and charter schools was
misguided.

De Blasio recently caused a furor by reversing space-sharing deals approved
under Bloomberg for three Manhattan charter schools.

"The thing with charter schools is they're public schools . . . and they act as
a role model for other public schools," said the former mayor.

"Every school takes away space that somebody else could use. By definition, what
we're supposed to do in school buildings is put in schools," he said of the
current battles over classroom space. "I mean, it's a nonsensical thing if you
think about it."

Despite touting the role of mayor as the "best job in government," Bloomberg
claimed he doesn't miss his old gig.

"I literally don't think about it," he said.

Now serving as the UN's special envoy for cities and climate change, Bloomberg
vowed to continue his lobbying on gun control, obesity and limiting the size of
sugary drinks.

Asked at the end of the interview what he wanted his tombstone to read,
Bloomberg answered: "I guess maybe something cute like: 'Made a difference.' "

ygonen@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Green for a day: Then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg marches in the 2010 St.
Pat­rick's Day Parade along Fifth Avenue. [William Farrington]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Bring the heat Team USA not worried about hot Brazil weather

BYLINE: Post wire services and

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 477 words


WORLD CUP NOTES

SAN PAULO - While some World Cup teams whine about withering weather and
troublesome travel, American players say: Bring it on!

European teams worry they will wilt. The United States considers cauldron-like
climates a regular finishing touch, as if the Americans were a Baked Alaska
flambe.

And if FIFA added a Road Warrior prize to the Golden Ball, Golden Boot and
Golden Glove, the U.S. would be assured of taking home an award.

"When you talk about playing in the heat, the travel, it doesn't bother us,"
U.S. midfielder Michael Bradley said Tuesday in preparation for the opening
match on Monday against Ghana. "And not only does it not bother us, it excites
us to see that now the other teams are so worried about it."

The Americans have the lengthiest first-round trek among the 32 teams at 8,800
air miles, chartering round-trip flights from Sao Paulo to Natal (1,420 each
way), Manaus (1,680) and Recife (1,300).

That's quite a contrast to four years ago, where the U.S. had the shortest
group-stage travel in South Africa. To reach their games, the Americans took bus
rides from Irene to Rustenburg (62 miles each way), Johannesburg (24) and
Pretoria (11) for a total of 194 miles. They needed to pack a weekender only
once during the first round, burrowing at their base hotel for the second and
third matches.

This year they will change cities and climates repeatedly. Tuesday's training
session at Sao Paulo Futebol Club started in a 62-degree temperature with a
cooling drizzle, but the Americans' games up north figure to be played in the
mid-80s or higher. And extreme humidity could make each stadium feel like a
sauna.

The 48-year-old nephew of Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari has been killed in a
car accident just two days before the team's World Cup opener, police said.

Highway police in the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul said businessman
Tarcisio Joao Schneider, the son of one of Scolari's sisters, died in a crash
Tuesday morning.

Officer Carlos Borges told the Associated Press in a phone interview the car
Schneider was driving collided head-on with a truck on the opposite lane.

In a stinging rebuke for Sepp Blatter, European football leaders told the
veteran FIFA president that he should leave the scandal-hit governing body next
year.

Blatter has sought support in Sao Paulo for a re-election bid in 2015 and faced
a hostile UEFA membership, which bucked the trend of overwhelming backing from
FIFA's other five continents.

Mario Balotelli took care of some personal business before the World Cup starts,
proposing to his Belgian girlfriend Fanny Neguesha early Tuesday morning.

"She said yes," the Italy striker posted on Instagram. "The most important yes
in my life."

Columbia's goalkeeper David Ospina criticized the World Cup 'Brazuca' ball made
by Adidas as being too light.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO WORRIES: Midfielder Michael Bradley (front), working out in
preparation for Monday's opening match against Ghana, said Team USA is looking
forward to playing in the heat in Brazil. Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Bring the heat Team USA not worried about hot Brazil weather

BYLINE: Post wire services and

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 521 words


WORLD CUP NOTES

SAN PAULO - While some World Cup teams whine about withering weather and
troublesome travel, American players say: Bring it on!

European teams worry they will wilt. The United States considers cauldron-like
climates a regular finishing touch, as if the Americans were a Baked Alaska
flambe.

And if FIFA added a Road Warrior prize to the Golden Ball, Golden Boot and
Golden Glove, the U.S. would be assured of taking home an award.

"When you talk about playing in the heat, the travel, it doesn't bother us,"
U.S. midfielder Michael Bradley said Tuesday in preparation for the opening
match on Monday against Ghana. "And not only does it not bother us, it excites
us to see that now the other teams are so worried about it."

The Americans have the lengthiest first-round trek among the 32 teams at 8,800
air miles, chartering round-trip flights from Sao Paulo to Natal (1,420 each
way), Manaus (1,680) and Recife (1,300).

That's quite a contrast to four years ago, where the U.S. had the shortest
group-stage travel in South Africa. To reach their games, the Americans took bus
rides from Irene to Rustenburg (62 miles each way), Johannesburg (24) and
Pretoria (11) for a total of 194 miles. They needed to pack a weekender only
once during the first round, burrowing at their base hotel for the second and
third matches.

This year they will change cities and climates repeatedly. Tuesday's training
session at Sao Paulo Futebol Club started in a 62-degree temperature with a
cooling drizzle, but the Americans' games up north figure to be played in the
mid-80s or higher. And extreme humidity could make each stadium feel like a
sauna.

Hugo Almeida scored the goals. Cristiano Ronaldo was the star.

Almeida's two first-half goals paced Portugal to a 5-1 victory over Ireland, the
team's final friendly before heading to Brazil for the World Cup. But it was
Ronaldo the overwhelmingly partisan Portuguese crowd of 46,063 at MetLife
Stadium came to see.

With many in the crowd wearing Portuguese jerseys, most of them emblazoned with
Ronaldo's customary No. 7, they cheered his every touch, the first of which came
less than a minute after the opening kickoff. He sprinted from midfield before
hitting a low shot that Irish keeper David Forde easily handled.

The 48-year-old nephew of Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari has been killed in a
car accident just two days before the team's World Cup opener, police said.

Highway police in the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul said businessman
Tarcisio Joao Schneider, the son of one of Scolari's sisters, died in a crash
Tuesday morning.

Officer Carlos Borges told the Associated Press in a phone interview the car
Schneider was driving collided head-on with a truck on the opposite lane.

In a stinging rebuke for Sepp Blatter, European football leaders told the
veteran FIFA president that he should leave the scandal-hit governing body next
year.

Blatter has sought support in Sao Paulo for a re-election bid in 2015 and faced
a hostile UEFA membership, which bucked the trend of overwhelming backing from
FIFA's other five continents.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO WORRIES: Midfielder Michael Bradley (front), working out in
preparation for Monday's opening match against Ghana, said Team USA is looking
forward to playing in the heat in Brazil. Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

SHARKS TAKE MANHATTAN - 'SHARKNADO 2' is blowing into town - but has it jumped
the you-know-what? BEATING A DEAD SHARK? 'Sharknado' tries to outdo itself with
a killer sequel. Now social media just has to take the bait

BYLINE: and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1281 words


Back on a bitter cold morning in February, the Citi Field set of "Sharknado 2:
The Second One" was abuzz about the current, um, situation. The day's scene - in
which the Sharknado attacks the stadium and sends the masses stampeding outside
- is set in the heat of summer. The problem? In reality, not only was snow
falling, it was beginning to stick.

The budget dictated that filming had to happen that day. Whispers traveled about
what the crew could do: Perhaps the storyline would have to change to give
Sharknados the power to screw up the seasons?

"The crew are changing things on a dime, putting out fires and solving massive
problems that go with a budgeted movie that's on a TV network," says cast member
Mark McGrath. "Things have to get done. It's snowing all over, and it's supposed
to be summer? Tough s - - t."

Luckily, this isn't exactly Oscar bait.

Last July, "Sharknado" became the summer's most head-scratching success. One of
countless B-movies to premiere on Syfy, the so-bad-it's-good film struck a chord
with audiences, igniting a phenomenon.

The premise was simple, if insane - what would happen if a tornado filled with
sharks hit the West Coast?

Throw in some stars well beyond their hits - Ian Ziering from "90210," Tara Reid
of "American Pie" - and the whole shebang was one giant ironic pleasure. The
initial broadcast garnered 1.7 million viewers and a whopping 5,000 tweets per
minute from engaged viewers. Fans can now buy everything from a "Sharknado"
video game to "Sharknado" pajamas.

A second movie was only a matter of time.

"We joked a lot about, 'Ohhhh, if there's a sequel  ' " says director Anthony C.
Ferrante. "Like, there's never going to be a sequel   none of my movies" - his
distinguished résumé includes looooooow-budget horror flicks "Boo" and "Headless
Horseman" - "have warranted a sequel. [But] this thing was huge."

The night of the premiere, Twitter snark was on full blast.

"#Sharknado shows what kinds of special effects you can make with an
Etch-a-Sketch, a Pez dispenser and a lawn sprinkler," said Twitter user Len
Feldman.

Even Mia Farrow got in on the fun. "Omg omg OMG #sharknado."

"Based on the Twitter attention it got, SHARKNADO is our Arab Spring." tweeted
comedian Patton Oswalt."

"It was in the zeitgeist, and it was a very special thing to know that people
were actually watching the movie, whether they hate it or like it or just want
to make fun of it - it entertained people," Ferrante says.

But a year and a million jokes later, has "Sharknado" jumped the shark?

"I don't know if that matters," says executive producer David Rimawi. "Look at
all the marketing, look at all the licensing, look at all the press and
publicity, look at all the people talking about it   There's a lot of success,
even though it may not translate to the ratings."

Rimawi is feeling confident the new film will match, if not exceed, the hype of
the original.

"As far as the lightning in the bottle with the social media and all that stuff,
that's gonna be where Syfy and [parent company] NBCU really focus their efforts
to make sure that if there's a chance it could do what [the first] did, they're
going to exploit that in any way and every way possible," he says. "If it
doesn't change the landscape of the world, then we've done something wrong."

For the sequel, which airs July 30 at 9 p.m., the filmmakers had a reported $2
million to try and top themselves. (Though SyFy will not confirm figures, this
seems to be on the high end for the network's original movies.)

The director jokes that one idea was to have a Sharknado so strong it goes back
in time, picks up dinosaurs and becomes a Sharknadosaurus.

Ultimately, the big change was moving the setting to the Big Apple. This time
around, Fin (Ziering) and the gang have to save the city from everyone's
favorite natural disaster.

Ziering admits he almost didn't say yes to the first movie.

"It was with a lot of trepidation that I agreed to do [it], but it was at the
behest of my wife, who said, 'Look, we're going to have another baby, you better
make sure you have your health insurance covered,' " he says. "[But] I was
pretty excited to hear that they wanted to do a sequel, being that the first one
was so well-received."

The filmmakers also brought in a motley crew of new actors, including McGrath
(the Sugar Ray frontman and former "Extra" host), Judah Friedlander of "30 Rock"
fame, Vivica A. Fox - and cameos better left as surprises.

"I love the first movie so much," says McGrath, noting he tweeted about it upon
its premiere. "I got the call, and I called [my] friends, and it was like I got
a Scorsese movie."

The actors say that despite the film's content, they have to take it seriously.

"[I perform] with all the professionalism and dedication I bring to any role,"
says Ziering. "We did that in the first movie, and if anyone winked at the
camera like, 'Come on, people, we both know I'm better than this,' then it would
have let all of the air out of the balloon. You have to keep the stakes raised
because once you let them down, the audience deflates, too."

Suspension of disbelief is a must for the actors when the antagonist is entirely
made of CGI.

"Yesterday, I sliced up a whole bunch of sharks. They weren't there, but I
sliced they asses up," says Fox. "And [Ferrante] helps us to know what's going
on, when they're coming - 'Overhead! Guts flying! Duck down!' "

New addition Kari Wuhrer, who has also appeared in such animal-horror
masterpieces as "Anaconda" and "Eight Legged Freaks," says she grounded her
performance in reality.

No, really.

"I've been through thunderstorms and hurricanes and all of that. And there's a
real fear of losing somebody that you love or being out of control. So you just
go to that place," the actress says. She pauses. "I can't believe you're asking
me about the preparation for this."

Filming in New York, the production was plagued with difficulties. The
aforementioned snow was a pain, and bitter cold temperatures made filming atop
soaring skyscrapers physically grueling, but McGrath found himself struggling
much closer to the ground.

"I got a concussion the first day, jumping off a stupid cab," he says. "I had a
40-pound sword on my back, so I'm jumping off the thing, and you know, I get
into my method acting, and I slam my head into the sword  sIt's not even my
sword! I'm carrying it for Ian!"

New York's paparazzi - both professional and amateur fans - also came out in
droves.

"It's insane. Literally, we have to, like, push them out of the scenes," says
Reid.

Despite the setbacks, a third film is already in the works.

"I'm lobbying for a tropical climate," says McGrath as the snow continues to
fall outside. "You know, Key West, Hawaii, Tahiti. I'm open for any one of those
if I make it."

- Additional reporting by Andrea Morabito

Survival Tip*

"Chainsaws are great all-purpose tools for unnatural disasters... When a great
white is flying straight for you... there's only on thing to do. Let 'er rip."

Survival Tip*

"Get as far away from the coast as you can. If a cop tries to pull you over,
wave goodbye and opress the nitrous button."

Survival Tip*

"Keep an eye out for trees, house sideing, trash and the occasional runaway
Ferris wheel."

*Survial tips from the book "How to Survive a Sharknado and Other Unnatural
Disasters," in stores now

Photo: Syfy

Ian Ziering fends off sharks - in the subway - in "Sharknado 2: The Second One,"
which airs July 30 on Syfy.

Photo: Syfy

In the sequel to the cult hit "Sharknado," a swarm of deadly sharks drop in for
a visit to the Empire State Building.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 22, 2014 Friday

Time Inc. heat over 'ad-friendly' evaluation

BYLINE: KEITH J. KELLY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 837 words


Time Inc. continues to try to put out a firestorm of controversy tied to new,
"advertiser-friendly" criteria used to evaluate some of its editorial employees.

One phrase in particular seemed to spark the controversy: how "beneficial to
advertiser relationship" an editor/writer's work was.

While the phrase was only applied to a small number of editorial employees at
SI.com, the controversy grew to the point where Chief Content Officer Norm
Pearlstine was forced to try and stamp it out - insisting it was being blown out
of proportion and not a widespread policy instituted from on high.

Pearlstine also suggested it might be part of a tactic by the Newspaper Guild to
stir up controversy as it negotiates a new contract for several hundred members.

But for an editorial workforce still jittery over CEO Joe Ripp's move to
eliminate the editor-in-chief job and have all editors report in to
business-side executives for the first time, it is perhaps not surprising that
news of the odd advertiser-friendly criteria set off alarms inside and outside
the company.

One former top editor laid the blame at Pearlstine's feet. The 71-year-old
onetime editor-in-chief returned last year to be the new COO under Ripp.

"Pearlstine is crumbling Time Inc.'s bedrock editorial integrity in a desperate
attempt to attract advertisers. And it won't work," said the former top editor.

"Scurrying to the bottom like this damages the Time Inc. brand and drives away
readers and soon advertisers, too," the person said.

On Thursday, Pearlstine insisted it was not a new company policy and said he
only learned about its implementation at Sports Illustrated after reading about
it on Gawker.com on Monday.

Pearlstine, speaking of the controversial phrase, told New York mag, "If I had
seen it in advance, I might have said, "what the f--- is this ?"

"The SI.com evaluation focused on journalistic expertise and excellence," he
told Media Ink. "It included metrics for traffic and development of content for
video and social. It also reflected an assessment of what content is of greatest
interest to both readers and advertisers - something every magazine, Web site,
newspaper and media business does. Continuing to do so is in no way at odds with
our enduring commitment to editorial independence, and to suggest otherwise is
simply untrue."

Pearlstine also said, "It's unfortunate that the Guild seems to be more
concerned with manufacturing a controversy than dealing with the issues of
today's business climate."

Late Thursday, the Guild struck back.

"It is not surprising that Time Inc. would try to spin its "advertiser
relationship criterion as somehow not being about writers getting cozy with
advertisers," said Guild president William O'Meara.

While the union boss admitted it is possible that Pearlstine did not know about
the evaluation in advance, he also said the criteria that included the
controversial phrase eventually resulted in two of seven writers on SI.com
getting laid off.

Time Inc. was laying off 500 people earlier this year as it prepped to be spun
off from parent Time Warner.

The Guild contract covering several hundred Time Inc. writers and editors
expired April 30, but both sides agreed to voluntarily extend it until after the
June spin-off of Time Inc. from Time Warner.

Talks are obviously getting tense.

Condé move

Condé Nast continued to shake up its management ranks on Thursday by naming
longtime Vanity Fair publisher Ed Menicheschi as chief marketing officer and
president of the Condé Nast Media Group.

Menicheschi will replace Lou Cona, who is getting the boot. Some were
speculating that Gina Sanders, the president of Condé's Fairchild division,
might land the vacant Vanity Fair job now that her group is being sold out from
under her to Penske Media Corp.

Well-placed sources were dismissing that speculation as "dead wrong" on
Thursday. Condé Nast has officially said that Sanders - who is married to Steve
Newhouse, part of the family that owns Condé and its parent company, Advance
Publications - will stay with Condé Nast in a yet-to-be revealed capacity.

No replacement has been tapped yet at VF.

And Condé watchers say it will be interesting to see how much input Vanity Fair
Editor-in-Chief Graydon Carter has in picking his business-side partner, since
he played a major role in the selection of Menicheschi for the job back in 2006.

The moves are the latest in a series of high-level changes under Condé President
Bob Sauerberg, who now has his hands into virtually all the revenue-generating
pieces of the company.

Manicheschi's new group brings in the majority of the company's print ad
revenue, but he clearly is aiming for more digital dollars.

"This is an unprecedented opportunity to transform the Condé Nast Media Group to
more effectively reach premium audiences, cultivate data services and innovate
new ad products, native and client solutions and cross-platform deals," he said.

kkelly@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 21, 2014 Sunday

Blas eyes 'green' for bldgs.

BYLINE: Laura italiano

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 177 words


Mayor de Blasio plans to commit at least $1 billion over the next decade to
"greening" city-owned buildings - and will pressure private landlords to make
similar energy-efficiency improvements, according to a report.

The mayor will announce the pricey initiative, which aims to significantly cut
greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, before the start of the UN Climate Summit on
Tuesday, the New York Times reports.

The goal is an 80 percent drop in building emissions from 2005 levels,
consistent with targets set for developed countries by the United Nations, the
paper said.

Buildings are responsible for 75 percent of the city's greenhouse emissions,
according to Crain's New York Business.

Precisely what the mayor's new initiative will require of city landlords has yet
to be detailed. But property owners are already being urged to use reflective
paint on roofs and to comply with Bloomberg-era requirements phasing out dirty
heating oil, Crain's reports.

The $1 billion tax burden is a significant sum: the city's fiscal 2015 budget is
$75 billion.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday

Java-jolt dolt O's NY coffee-cup salute

BYLINE: Joe Tacopino

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 272 words


President Obama was caught Tuesday acting like a java jarhead.

The commander-in-chief was accused of disrespecting the US Marine Corps Tuesday
when he gave an awkward salute to a pair of Marines in Manhattan while still
holding his coffee cup in his hand.

A short video of the incident was posted on the official White House Instagram
account. It showed the president stepping off the Marine One helicopter and
making the almost dismissive gesture, while on his way to deliver a speech about
climate change at the UN General Assembly.

"President Obama just landed in New York," the Instagram post said. "Watch him
speak at 12:50pm ET on his plan to #ActOnClimate."

The chief executive's faux pas came just one day after he ordered US troops into
harm's way with a massive air attack against ISIS targets in Syria.

In the video, Obama buttons his coat with his left hand and casually salutes
with his well-caffeinated right hand as he saunters down the stairs.

The lazy gesture had some observers furious at the president's oblivious lack of
decorum.

"Saluting with a coffeee cup on his hand: what a disgrace," one user commented
on Instagram.

Another user said, "Put the damn coffee down and salute correctly."

It wasn't the first time Obama made a saluting misstep that involved Marine One.

In May 2013, the president was entering the helicopter in Annapolis, Md., when
he walked right past a Marine stationed at the bottom of the stairs.

A befuddled Obama quickly realized his mistake, however, and bounded down the
stairs to shake the Marine's hand before reboarding the aircraft.

jtacopino@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Time to change hands: President Obama salutes Marines while holding a
coffee cup Tuesday. [Photos: Instagram]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday

MAD DEMS! GQ said it couldn't find enough nutty liberal politicians for its
year-end list. Oh really?

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1167 words


In a survey of the "Craziest Politicians of 2014," GQ had difficulty locating
any Democrats. Seventeen out of 20 on the list were Republicans, with the only
liberals being Texas Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, Georgia Rep. Hank Johnson and
America's reigning nabob of nuttiness, Joe Biden.

In a note appended to the story, GQ defensively said it wasn't guilty of
"standard liberal-media bias," it just couldn't find any loony Democrats to
speak of.

Let's give GQ a little help, shall we? Here are 16 more Democrats to the list of
the most cray-cray political figures.

Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democratic National Committee Chair (Fla.):
Compared Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to a wife-beater: "Scott Walker has given
women the back of his hand. I know that is stark. That is direct. But that is
reality. What Republican Tea Party extremists like Scott Walker are doing is
they are grabbing us by the hair and pulling us back. It is not going to happen
on our watch." Wait, I'm confused, this abuse already happened, is happening but
"it's not going to happen"?

Rep. Barbara Lee (Calif.): Called for a $26 minimum wage so that "people . . .
could afford to live in areas now where they cannot afford to live" and "you
would increase diversity in certain communities where you don't have diversity
anymore. You would have economic parity." Nah, $26 an hour isn't going to
diversify Park Avenue. Try $260 an hour, that'll work!

Sean Eldridge and Chris Hughes, rich and clueless: Eldridge tried to buy a New
York congressional seat, purchasing a $5 million in one district, then, when
that didn't work, grabbing a $2 million home in another. He outspent his
opponent 3-to-1 but still lost (dashing his hopes, the Daily Beast reports, of
being "the first openly gay president"). Meanwhile, Eldridge's husband, Facebook
co-founder Hughes, decided to take out his frustration on the magazine he
bought, The New Republic. He fired the editor and said the tweed-jacket brigade
would become a "vertically integrated digital-media company." The liberal
writers who lost their minds over this is a crazy list all its own.

Gubernatorial nominee Wendy Davis (Texas): Approved a disparaging ad that
featured images of a wheelchair like the one her opponent Greg Abbott has had to
use for years since a freak accident. The ad was credited with adding five
points to Abbott's huge margin of victory.

Outgoing Sen. Kay Hagan (NC): Allowed an empty chair to represent her at an
October debate with challenger Thom Tillis. Tillis, who spent an hour explaining
his positions and slamming Hagan, won the debate and went on to victory in the
election.

Senate Veteran Affairs Committee Chairman Bernie Sanders (a Democrat who
identifies as a Socialist, in a reversal of the usual custom): Said that the VA
provides "very high quality health care, period." and that the shocking scandals
surrounding it were traceable to "a concerted effort to undermine the VA" led by
"Koch brothers and others who want to radically change the nature of society."
So that's why the Kochs are funding all those hospitals! It's really a
roundabout way of making the VA look bad.

MIT economist Jonathan Gruber, paid architect/spokesman for ObamaCare: Tapes
emerged of him saying that only the stupidity of American voters allowed
ObamaCare to pass. Then, in congressional testimony, suffered an unfortunate
public episode of schizophrenia as he called himself a liar for all the times
he'd previously said he helped write ObamaCare.

Outgoing Sen. Mary Landrieu (La.): Locked in a fight for her political life, in
the final days of her campaign she called her own constituents racists and
sexists. About President Obama, she said he was unpopular in her state because,
"The South has not always been the friendliest place for African-Americans. It's
been a difficult time for the president to present himself in a very positive
light as a leader." About herself she said, "It's not always been a good place
for women to present ourselves. It's more of a conservative place." Maybe
Landrieu should have run some place like Massachusetts, where the party of Obama
is popular and Martha Coakley easily won the governor's . . . whoops, wait. No,
she didn't.

UN Ambassador Samantha Power: Tweeted that "Daniel Pearl's story is reminder
that individual accountability & reconciliation are required to break cycles of
violence." Either that or it's a reminder that murderous anti-Semitic Islamist
fanatics should be broken into as many pieces as possible. But the quote is
perfectly sane if Power is hoping her next job will be al Qaeda Ambassador to
the UN.

Outgoing Democratic Congressional Committee Chairman and Congressman Steve
Israel (NY): Sent out a string of increasingly deranged fundraising emails that
sounded they were coming from a guy who was strapped to the wall in the Marquis
de Sade's torture dungeon and maybe even enjoying it, featuring subject lines
such as "CRIPPLING blow." "DEVASTATING defeat," "EVISCERATED," "HORRIFYING,"
"HUMILIATING" and "WHOA." Israel put his gift for hyperbole by writing his first
novel, "The Global War on Morris." He said he was inspired to pursue fiction by
things he heard while sitting in on national security briefings. Good to know
that those are useful for something.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi: After Republican Rep. Tom Marino gave a
speech mentioning that Pelosi had done nothing on immigration reform when she
ruled the House, an enraged Pelosi chased him down two aisles gesturing wildly
and hurling imprecations until a group of fellow lawmakers intervened.
Said"Democrats are not fear mongers but "civilization as we know it would be in
jeopardy if Republicans win the Senate." Right. Because if, say, the minimum
wage or gun laws stay the way they are right now, the Book of Revelation kicks
into effect.

Outgoing Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid: Once muttered the words "Koch
brothers" 27 times in a speech. Said the Koch brothers are "one of the main
causes of [climate change]. Not a cause, one of the main causes." Koch
Industries is responsible for one-third of 1 percent of the carbon emissions in
one country. It's like saying Scranton is one of the main cities in the country.

Outgoing Sen. Mark Udall (Colo.): Approved an attack ad that said opponent Cory
Gardner was secretly waging an "eight year crusade that would ban birth
control." If so, calling for selling the Pill over the counter (as Gardner did)
was a funny way to go about it.

First Lady Michelle Obama: "There's too much money in politics . . . Here is
something you can do right now today to make a difference, and that is to write
a big, fat check."

President in Waiting Hillary Clinton: Defined "smart power" as "Showing respect,
even for one's enemies, trying to understand and insofar as psychologically
possible, empathize with their perspective and point of view." Hey, Muhammad, I
feel your pain. Tell me, does your wrist ache from slitting that guy's throat?

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

CHIP SHOT Kelly, Eagles answer doubters

BYLINE: and Paul Schwartz

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1004 words


PHILADELPHIA - Remember after the Eagles won their season opener, scoring 33
points against the Redskins and everyone was hailing Chip Kelly and the
high-octane college offense he brought with him from Oregon as the Next Big
Thing?

Remember after the Eagles then lost their next three games and the guffaws and
"I told you so'' chorus kicked in, ridiculing the notion Kelly's attack was so
innovative and unstoppable?

Well, look who's getting, if not the last laugh, certainly a post-New Year's
chuckle. Kelly took over a team that won just four games in 2012 and has the
Eagles flying high as NFC East champions, ready to put the climate-controlled
Saints into the deep freeze for Saturday night's NFC wild-card playoff game at
Lincoln Financial Field.

This is all new to the Eagles (10-6), who have not won a game in the postseason
in four years, and it's certainly foreign terrain for Kelly, who at this time a
year ago was coming off a Fiesta Bowl victory over Kansas State. It's certainly
uncharted territory for Nick Foles, the second-year quarterback who replaced a
hobbled Michael Vick and put up historic passing numbers. The Saints (11-5),
with Sean Payton as head coach and Drew Brees at quarterback, have Super Bowl
pedigrees.

"Depends on who wins, right?'' Kelly said. "If we lose, we were inexperienced.
If we win, then there will be another story.''

Here's a look inside the game:

MARQUEE MATCHUP: Saints LT Terron Armstead vs. Eagles OLB Trent Cole. Armstead,
a rookie, was thrust into the lineup late in the season to replace struggling
veteran Charles Brown. This will be Armstead's third career start. He has to go
against the savvy Cole, who has eight sacks and said Armstead is "very athletic
but he's got some weak spots.'' The Saints no doubt will give Armstead plenty of
help with extra blockers. "They'd better,'' Cole warned.

ROAD WORRIERS: Until you've done it, you haven't done it, and the Saints have
never done it. They are 0-3 on the road in the playoffs in the Sean Payton/Drew
Brees era and 0-5 on the road in the postseason in franchise history. Nothing
indicates they are ready for a breakthrough, considering the Saints went 3-5 on
the road this season - losing five of their last six. Their high-velocity
offense is less than dominant on the road, averaging only 17.8 points this
season (compared to 34 points a game in their cozy home dome).

"We're certainly not sitting here overacting,'' Brees said. "We understand the
last three outings on the road have not been our best performance. At times you
do have to kind of just change things up so that psychologically you say, 'Hey,
it's going to be different this time around.' I think our past history speaks
for itself in regards to the road. But we know we're about to break the seal.''

Warning to the indoor-loving Saints: It is expected to be 24 degrees at kickoff
and a wind-chill of 17, but no chance of snow.

NICK OF TIME: If you say you foresaw this, it's a canard. Nick Foles is set to
make his first career postseason start and the statuesque pocket passer has been
nothing short of brilliant as the NFL's greatest revelation. He led the league
in passer rating (119.2) with an outrageous 27-to-2 touchdown-interception
ratio, which is the best in league history.

SPREAD THE WEALTH: The term "matchup problem'' wasn't created for Jimmy Graham,
but it might as well have been. The Saints tight end is coming off another
prolific season (82 receptions, 1,215 yards, 16 TDs) and, with the body and
athletic ability of an NBA power forward, he's too swift for linebackers and too
big for safeties. "He's the No. 1 target they have and he's been their most
consistent target,'' Eagles defensive coordinator Billy Davis said. "He's a big,
athletic tight end, catches everything thrown near him. They move him all over
the place so it's tough to practice and get a beat on how to help guys on him.''

The problem with keying on Graham is the Saints are so darn deep. They are the
first team in NFL history with four players with at least 70 receptions, as
Brees not only has focused on Graham, but also running back Pierre Thomas (77
receptions) Marques Colston (75) and running back Darren Sproles (71). Thomas,
though, won't play because of a chest injury, a big loss to the New Orleans
running and passing attack.

NO FAULT INSURANCE: Sure, the Saints are a different team on the road, but the
blame can't be put on Brees for the postseason failures. He's 5-4 in nine
playoff starts, but has completed 69 percent of his passes along with 22
touchdowns and only four interceptions. In playoff losses with the Saints in
2010 (at Seattle) and 2011 (at San Francisco) Brees threw for 866 yards with six
TDs and two INTs and the Saints scored 32 and 36 points. His 103.9 quarterback
rating in the postseason is the second-best mark in NFL history, behind only
Bart Starr (104.8). Brees' 67.0 completion percentage in the postseason is the
highest mark ever.

NUMBERS TO KNOW

16 - Games each member of the Eagles offensive line has started, as their line
has been injury-free and intact the entire season.

0 - The number of times before this season in NFL history one team had a
quarterback with a 100-plus passer rating (Nick Foles, 119.2), a 1,600-yard
rusher (LeSean McCoy, 1,607) and a 1,300-yard receiver (DeSean Jackson, 1,332).

2 - Pass defense ranking of the Saints, as coordinator Rob Ryan's scheme helped
in the pass rush (Cameron Jordan has 12 ¹/  sacks and Junior Galette has 12) to
allow only 194.1 passing yards per game.

PAUL'S PICK: It might not be the scoring festival the track records indicate and
the difference could be Eagles' ability to grind out the tough yards on the
ground. The Saints can rush the passer, but can they stop the pass from being
completed over their heads? These Birds get to fly south next week.

EAGLES 27, SAINTS 24.

---

SATURDAY

NFC WILD CARD

Saints at Eagles

8:10 p.m.-NBC; WFAN (660 AM)

Eagles -2 ¹/ ; O/U: 54

WEATHER

Clear, 26 degrees

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chip Kelly, LeSean McCoy, Drew Brees. [AP; Getty Images; UPI]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 9, 2014 Thursday

Andrew Agonistes No chance to go truly big

BYLINE: MARK CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 617 words


Amid all the other reactions to Gov. Cuomo's latest State of the State speech,
can we take a moment to pity the guy? He so plainly wants to do great things,
but circumstances conspire against him.

Yes, the governor talked a grand game Tuesday, citing a host of accomplishments
and setting out a supposedly bold agenda for the coming year. But it all adds up
to changes too small or too cosmetic to truly shift New York's course - or his
own.

On the economy, if Cuomo gets everything he just asked for, New York will remain
one the most overtaxed states, with one of the worst business climates - at best
trading places at the bottom with New Jersey, where Chris Christie, for all his
bluster, has also failed to pass any game-changers.

Florida is still passing us to become the nation's third-largest state, with no
end in sight to New York's decline.

As for Upstate, even a zero corporate-income tax will only slow the region's
already-tragic decline. Cuomo's casinos can at best create some low-paying
service jobs; the governor's shown an iron determination to "study" to death the
easiest real game-changer, fracking.

And on property taxes, the strong cap Cuomo won in his first term merely limits
future harm. To force local taxes down, he'd need to tackle all the state
mandates that have forced local spending so high - and that would mean taking on
the public-employee unions and the Legislature, which they pretty much control.

So all he's offering is consolidation of local governments - reforms that will
save some real money, but in the end amount to no more than shuffling the deck
chairs on the Titanic.

Don't get me wrong: New York is better off under Andrew Cuomo. He is, after all,
our first governor since George Pataki's second year to be simultaneously
engaged, sane and competent. But when you're reduced to bragging about how taxes
aren't quite as high as they used to be, and how budgets are now getting passed
on time . . . well, George W. Bush's observation about "the soft bigotry of low
expectations" is one of the kindest lines that comes to mind.

None of this is likely to endanger the governor's re-election this fall, not in
an overwhelmingly Democratic state. But so what? The forces that keep him from
doing more won't grow any weaker in a second term, or a third.

And he's got nowhere to go. He can't run for president unless Hillary Clinton
drops out. Fair or not, she's got first call not only on the New York
establishment, but on the "sensible Democrat" niche in the primaries. His best
hope is that some Republican beats her, so he can run in 2020.

A Cabinet job? He's already been Housing secretary (though it's not something
much to brag about, given how his policies there helped foster the whole
subprime crisis and the 2008 financial collapse). The only obvious role for him
is as attorney general - and Democratic presidents these days feel the need to
fill that post with a die-hard loyalist, not a guy with his own White House
ambitions.

Cuomo, in short, is stuck: For the foreseeable future, the best he can hope to
do is keep on keeping on, praying for some opportunity to develop - a
mega-scandal that truly upends the Legislature (you go, Preet Bharara), or a
national crisis that somehow demands his talents in Washington.

In the meantime, he's stuck negotiating with Shelly Silver and the Senate's
leaders to manage New York's decline, and jousting with Mayor de Blasio about
who's the real big Democratic dog in New York.

A natural politician like Cuomo may enjoy those fights, but you can bet his gut
burns at being forced to play on so small a stage, no matter how happy a face he
puts on it.

cunningham@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stuck with the dwarves: Gov. Cuomo (c) during Wednesday's State of the
State ceremonies, with Senate leader Dean Skelos (l.) and Assembly Speaker
Sheldon Silver. [Shannon DeCelle]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 22, 2014 Wednesday

Shameless and partisan hijacking of the Dream

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 657 words


Not so long ago, savvy politicians were fond of describing election campaigns as
"the silly season." They saw it as a scripted ritual where every promise made,
every charge leveled, came with a sly wink that meant nothing was to be taken at
face value.

Even the worst understood that governing was hard and that, once the votes were
counted, the winners would have to get off their high horses and do actual work.
They tempered expectations because they knew reality would be their check and
balance.

Ah, the good old days. Now every day is "the silly season" as the permanent
campaign swallows governing and good sense. There is no respite from the
hyperventilating baloney of promise politics.

Take the holiday to honor Martin Luther King Jr. It has deteriorated into just
another day of partisan jousts, his storied legacy reduced to a stamp of
approval to be usurped for any and all causes of the moment. The pilferers
pretend to pay their respects, but in truth aim to puff themselves up by
declaring that he would support whatever they do.

Theirs is the audacity of audacity.

"I have no doubt . . . he would believe that these are the things our society
requires," Mayor de Blasio told a Brooklyn audience. "Now is the time to reform
a broken stop-and-frisk policy. Now is the time to make sure that every child
gets full-day pre-K."

What a coincidence - those are the same things de Blasio campaigned on, though
he didn't mention whether King would also go for the tax hike the mayor wants.

A later speaker, former Black Panther Angela Davis, got a standing ovation for
ranting about "Israeli apartheid" and demanding justice for Palestinians.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman used the holiday to take aim at big
banks and home foreclosures, while City Comptroller Scott Stringer invoked the
homeless. Rep. Charles Rangel demanded an extension of unemployment benefits.

A union boss was honored in Washington for advocating on behalf of federal
workers during the government shutdown, as if this wasn't his job. His
connection to King's commitment to fair wages is a stretch, since his union
workers got paid for not working during the shutdown.

Not to be outdone, the zealous secretary of the Environmental Protection
Administration coined a phrase when she vowed to deliver "climate justice."
Perhaps she plans to direct all blizzards and tornados to Republican states? She
also announced a partnership with the "hip-hop caucus," leaving unsaid whether
she believes King would embrace the thug culture many rappers champion.

Vice President Joe Biden, after talking about how many black friends he had,
promised changes on immigration and pay equity, and denounced the Supreme Court
ruling that eliminated parts of the Voting Rights Act. He should have used the
teleprompter so he could meander with coherence.

Much of Monday's promises were made as professions of commitment to Al Sharpton,
or "Rev," as Biden kept calling him in that down-home Delaware way.

Somewhere, somehow, Sharpton has become the living surrogate for King. As the
day's top ringmaster, he attracted supplicants and granted absolutions in two
cities.

His National Action Network breakfast in Washington drew Biden and many of the
others cited, then he accepted the tribute of city officials at his Harlem
headquarters in the afternoon.

That's where de Blasio announced that a Sharpton associate would be
chief-of-staff to his wife, Chirlane McCray. A City Hall release put it a little
differently, with de Blasio and McCray jointly announcing that Rachel
Noerdlinger would be joining the team.

"Rachel shares my commitment to bringing social justice to the forefront in this
city," McCray was quoted as saying.

She didn't mention it, but Noerdlinger's salary will be a whopping $170,000.

Nobody claimed King would approve of that bonanza, but of course he would.
That's the whole point of his holiday.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayor Bill de Blasio with wife Chirlane McCray at a Martin Luther King
Jr. tribute. [WireImage]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Obama: I'm doing it alone * Defiant State of the Union * Ignoring will of
Congress * Moving on policy agenda

BYLINE: Geoff Earle and S.A. Miller

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 663 words


'Wherever and whenever I can take steps without legislation to expand
opportunity for more American families, that's what I'm going to do.' -
President Obama ,in his   State of the Union speech

WASHINGTON - Limping into his sixth year in office, President Obama used his
State of the Union Address Tuesday to announce executive actions that will let
him pursue a policy agenda without the hassle of going through Congress.

Among his first unilateral moves is increasing the minimum wage by nearly 50
percent for future federal-contract workers.

"America does not stand still - and neither will I. So wherever and whenever I
can take steps without legislation to expand opportunity for more American
families, that's what I'm going to do," Obama declared in the prime-time speech.

The president spoke in stark terms about persistent "inequality" in the country
during his tenure, despite a stock-market boom.

"Today, after four years of economic growth, corporate profits and stock prices
have rarely been higher, and those at the top have never done better," he said.

"But average wages have barely budged. Inequality has deepened. Upward mobility
has stalled."

It was an assessment ripped right of Mayor de Blasio's "Tale of Two Cities"
playbook - although in Obama's case, his comments come ­after five years in
office.

The president also made a pitch to make "high-quality pre-K available to every
4-year-old," again echoing de Blasio.

Appealing to his liberal base, Obama promised to rein in drone strikes and
National Security Agency spying programs.

He pleaded with Senate Democrats not to break with the administration and impose
new sanctions on Iran that could derail nuclear talks. "For the sake of our
national security, we must give diplomacy a chance to succeed," he said.

Obama laced the speech with slaps at Republicans, at one point prodding
lawmakers to extend the unemployment benefits "you just let expire."

He also tried to strike a conciliatory tone, calling for an end to the
"rancorous argument" that has gridlocked Washington.

"Let's make this a year of action," he told the packed House chamber. "That's
what most Americans want - for all of us in this chamber to ­focus on their
lives, their hopes, their aspirations."

Even before Obama addressed Congress, the White House announced he would issue
an executive order hiking the minimum wage to $10.10 for future federal-contract
workers.

It was his boldest action yet on an issue sweeping across New York and other
states - after Obama failed to get anything out of Congress last year, when he
called for a minimum-wage hike to $9 from the current $7.25 for all American
workers.

He also came out for legislation that would raise the national minimum wage to
the same $10.10 over a three-year period, indexed to inflation.

But only 250,000 federal-contract employees would initially be ­affected, the
White House said.

Obama also used his speech to roll out 20 relatively limited proposals, none of
which matched the scope of his first-term efforts like ObamaCare or the failed
effort to enact climate-change legislation.

The proposals include:

n Asking Congress to close the detention base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba - although
Obama just signed a defense bill that included a congressionally mandated
provision ruling out closure.

n Extending unemployment insurance for the long-term unemployed, although House
Republicans have previously rebuffed that extension and allowed the benefit to
expire at the start of the year.

n Connecting more schools to the Internet and making college more ­affordable.

Defending the wage hike for contractors, Obama said, "If you cook our troops'
meals or wash their dishes, you shouldn't have to live in poverty."

Among those in the audience listening to Obama was Washington Heights honors
student Estiven Rodriguez, the son of a Dominican immigrant, who was invited by
First Lady Michelle Obama.

geoff.earle@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

Kerry is o so high strung

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 246 words


There's a growing call for Secretary of State John Kerry to be fired. For two
reasons, it's a bad idea.

First, why spoil the fun? Watching Kerry hop around the globe, wag his finger
and give stern lectures about what other countries should do creates a guessing
game.

Where will Long John pop up tomorrow with his traveling scold school? What moral
failing will he spotlight - to no avail?

Recent days set a new speed record for futility. He blamed Syrian butcher Bashar
al-Assad for keeping the civil war going by refusing to resign. Duh!

Then he demanded Indonesia do something, though he didn't say what, about
climate change. "It's not an exaggeration to say to you that your entire way of
life that you live and love is at risk," he warned. His hosts thanked him and
went about their business.

Then it was back to the Syrian situation, lecturing Russians to stop arming
Assad and accusing them of "doubling down" on their commitment.

That's odd, because Russia has been propping up Assad for four years, so Kerry
earns another Duh!

Which brings us to Reason No. 2 why he shouldn't be fired. It would be like
blaming the puppet for the sins of the puppeteer.

Kerry works for Barack Obama and these are Obama's policies. They don't work
abroad any better than his domestic policies work at home.

So give Kerry a break. Besides, as long as he is out there making a fool of
himself, we have a constant reminder of the man who sent him on a fool's errand.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Barack Obama with John Kerry as a puppet. [Post photo
illustration]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Netflix: Easy, ISPs CFO nixes pricey high-speed deals

BYLINE: Kaja Whitehouse

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 314 words


Netflix CEO Reed Hastings refuses to be a victim of highway robbery - even the
online sort.

Little more than a week after the maker of the hit political drama "House of
Cards" agreed to pay Comcast for direct access to its high-speed pipes, the
company's chief financial officer said Netflix would not pay through the nose in
its dealings with Internet service providers.

"I would say that we still philosophically believe that the consumer is still
best served in an environment where a content provider like ourself doesn't pay
an ISP," Netflix CFO David Wells told attendees this week at the Morgan
Stanley's media and tech conference in San Francisco.

Given the current climate - in which ISPs increasingly want providers of
heavy-data flow, like Netflix, to pay up or risk having their stream get bogged
down in traffic - Wells said that Netflix is willing to fork over cash for
service, but that ISPs shouldn't look at it as a piggy bank.

"We're not going to be interested in doing something that's going to
meaningfully change the economics for us," Wells said. "But we are interested in
doing things that, for the right set of economics, improve that subscriber
experience long-term."

Netflix cut a multiyear deal with Comcast last month amid concerns that the
cable giants' customers were getting spotty Netflix service.

Previously, Netflix had been accessing Comcast's pipes through content-delivery
middlemen, rather than directly.

Wells called the deal with Comcast "incremental" and said it wouldn't impact the
company's costs over sales.

Verizon is also reportedly asking Netflix to pay up for direct access to its
roadways amid concerns of similarly spotty streaming to Verizon's customers. In
January, Netflix ranked Verizon the slowest out of 17 ISPs.

Netflix shares rose 2.1 percent on Tuesday to close at $454.98.

kwhitehouse@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hands off our dough: Netflix has issued this pretty direct warning to
cash-hungry Internet service providers. [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

DOLAN'S WATCH Jim happy to become a fan - for now

BYLINE: and GEORGE WILLIS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 839 words


PHIL JACKSON and Knicks general manager Steve Mills were sitting around a table
in a room inside the Garden where only important people are allowed.

A press conference announcing Jackson as the president of the Knicks had
concluded about an hour earlier Tuesday, giving the two leaders of the Knicks
basketball operations a chance to exchange ideas.

Garden chairman and Knicks owner James Dolan watched the conversation from a
distance and began to smile.

"I see this as being liberating," he told The Post later. "I'm happy to be out
of it." The man who owns the team wants to become just a fan again.

During Tuesday's much-anticipated press conference that launched the Knicks into
a new era, Dolan said he "willingly and gratefully" gives Jackson full control
of basketball decisions. It was one of the few things he didn't read from a
prepared statement.

No more perceived meddling, he promises. No more second guessing; and no more
stepping in to instigate trades. Sure, he'll still check the money and sign the
checks, but Dolan is trying hard to distance himself from making any basketball
decisions.

"I've got these two guys doing this," Dolan said, referring to Jackson and
Mills. "I'll still be involved from the chairman side.

If they're going to spend $150 million, I'm going to know about it.

But they can do the job." We can only take Dolan at his word - though history
says things might change. Donnie Walsh thought he had full control until Dolan
stepped in to push the trade for Carmelo Anthony, and Mills thought he'd have a
voice before being hushed by the secrecy of the Jackson negotiations.

The pessimist might suggest things may never be as amicable in the Knicks
hierarchy as they were on Tuesday. We've witnessed the scene before. A press
conference is called and a new coach or general manager is announced. Everybody
holds a basketball and smiles for the cameras. A few years later another press
conference is held and more promises are made.

But maybe Dolan has learned something over the near two decades of highs and
mostly lows.

Maybe more than anything, he respects Jackson and his 13 championship rings.

They first began their courtship during a holiday party in California held by
music manager Irving Azoff. Dolan and Jackson chatted about basketball and the
Knicks in a back room for the entire party.

"That's where I really started to get an understanding of how smart his
understanding of basketball is," Dolan said. "I never heard anyone talk about
basketball like he did."

They met "four or five times" following that party to discuss Jackson's
potential interest in joining the Knicks. One meeting took place in Dallas; the
others were in Los Angeles.

Jackson coming to New York for a sit-down was not an option.

"I couldn't have him here," Dolan said. "There's no way Phil Jackson is going to
walk into this city and not have the city know about it." A coaching role was
ruled out largely because of Jackson's health issues. But he made known his
interest in a front-office job about three weeks ago. A verbal agreement was
reached 10 days ago and a five-year contract worth an estimated $60 million was
signed on Friday.

Azoff worked with a Los Angeles based attorney to broker the deal on behalf of
the Knicks, who worked hard to keep the discussions secret.

"I felt the negotiations if they were conducted between New York and L.A., I was
worried they would blow up," Dolan said.

Jackson spoke ues day about changing the culture of the Knicks and promised to
be accessible. That would be in contrast to the current climate, where Mills
wasn't allowed to speak to the media for much of this season. For now, Jackson
won't be muzzled.

"The only thing I'll say is try to be fair and honest with him,"Dolan said.

From Eddy Curry to Larry Brown to Amar'e Stoudemire, the Knicks have thrown big
money at big names before without much success.

Dolan makes no apologies for that, but says of Jackson, "It's not a public
relations play, I'll tell you that. It's a sincere effort - as it's been all
along the way-to try and win."

Dolan sounds sincere about staying out of the way. The owner just wants to be a
fan. At least for now.

DOLAN DISHES ...

On Jackson coaching:

"If Phil ever wanted to coach, he can coach. He's in charge of all basketball
decisions. If one of them is, 'I want to coach.'That's fine with me. I think he
would love to coach. But Ithink he feels he just can't do the grind."

On Jackson and GM

Steve Mills working together: "If you ask Steve, he'd say he doesn't have the
chops Phil does. I don't even think it's close. ... But Steve's going to

make a lot of things happen for Phil that Phil wants to have happen. He's Phil's
guiding hand."

On Mike Woodson:

"Everyone is going to be supportive of Mike and get us through the

season. Then those guys [Jackson and Mills] will evaluate and then they're going
to tell me what they want to do. I'll just sit and wait for them to come tell me
what they want to do."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : BOSOM BUDDIES: Knicks owner James Dolan, who said he "willingly and
gratefully" handed full power to Phil Jackson, jokes around with his new team
president. Paul J. Bereswill

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 6, 2014 Sunday

In My Library Scott Z. Burns

BYLINE: Barbara Hoffman and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 365 words


Scott Z. Burns has been writing screenplays for a while now, some of which have
become Matt Damon films. And yes, he has a favorite story: "When we were
shooting 'Contagion,' Matt kept telling Steven [Soderbergh] and me that the
movie would make a lot more money if we put zombies in it. One day we hired this
giant guy and dressed him as a zombie. Matt came around the corner and made a
three-foot leap. He yelled 'Zombies!' and ran with it." There are no zombies in
Burns' new play "The Library," now in previews at the Public Theater, but there
are plenty of ghosts: It's about the aftermath of a school shooting and was
inspired by the story of a student wounded at Columbine. Soderbergh directs.
Here are four books in Burns' own library.

The Sixth Extinction by Elizabeth Kolbert

This is a new book from Kolbert, who wrote "Field Notes From a Catastrophe,"
about climate change. This one's about how we're losing species at a level that
rivals any other time in history. It's alarming that geologists are renaming
this period the Anthropocene while politicians are doing nothing about it.

The Burglary by Betty Medsger

This is an amazing story about a bunch of antiwar protesters - students and
professors - who broke into an FBI office in Pennsylvania the night of the
Ali-Frazier fight in 1971 and walked off with documents they sent to newspapers,
including Medger, at The Washington Post. Way before WikiLeaks, they revealed
how the FBI was spying on Americans.

Dark Lies the Island by Kevin Barry

This one was recommended by Craig Finn, the lead singer for a Brooklyn band
called Hold Steady. Barry is an Irish short-story writer and he has an amazing
voice. Imagine "The Dubliners" moved up a century and made darker, twisted and
funnier.

The Diaries of Adam and Eve by Mark Twain

This may be something Steven Soderbergh gave me - it's amazingly funny and
current and insightful into the problems men and women face. It's a great
subversion of the Adam and Eve story - achingly poignant and funny and folkloric
in its wisdom. It makes you feel better about your own relationship struggles
when you realize these struggles have been going on for a long time.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : SCOTT Z. BURNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 24, 2014 Thursday

Morgans grinder Burkle bud out in cold in hotel fight: source

BYLINE: Josh Kosman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 336 words


Morgans Hotel Chairman Jason Taubman Kalisman will likely beat billionaire Ron
Burkle and his supporters for a second time, The Post has learned.

Kalisman last year won a proxy battle with Burkle over control of the chic hotel
group, which owns the Hudson, Delano and Mondrian brands. Now it looks as though
he will hold off a Burkle supporter at the May 14 annual meeting.

Sahm Adrangi's Kerrisdale Capital has nominated a full slate of directors to
replace the current board and pursue a sale of the business. Kerrisdale also
supported Burkle during his board battle.

Adrangi, a 32-year-old Iran-born Canadian, is facing "an uphill climb" to win,
said a person close to the situation, adding that none of his nominees for the
board have relevant experience.

"Our understanding is that some investors do not believe the Kerrisdale slate is
strong enough," MKM Senior Analyst Chris Agnew told The Post. "If that
perception does not change, I would think the current board will likely keep
their seats."

Agnew said he believes the lodging business cycle is on an upswing, making him
wary of a fire sale approach.

Kalisman, the 34-year-old grandson of real estate developer Alfred Taubman, has
suggested he's open to selling the chain but only after it reduces its debt
load.

Morgans released a presentation on Wednesday aimed at persuading investors to
re-elect the current board.

In response, Adrangi told TheStreet.com that a potential buyer would be willing
to pay $10.10 a share for Morgans, which closed down 1.5 percent, or 11 cents,
at $7.33.

Last week, Kerrisdale hired Andrew Zobler, chief executive of the Sydell Group,
as an adviser. Sydell also has two joint ventures with Burkle's Yucaipa Cos.,
including one to acquire and develop urban lifestyle-oriented hotel properties.

Besides losing the proxy battle last year, Burkle also made a proposal to
purchase Morgans for $8 a share that never fully materialized.

Kerrisdale and Burkle did not return calls.

jkosman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The party's over? Ron Burkle (seen here with Demi Moore) could end his
battle for the Morgans Hotel Group if his hedge-fund supporter loses a proxy
fight for the company. [Startracks]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

'Times' a changin': Admits economy sucks

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 864 words


Congratulations to the New York Times!

After more than six years of writing inane and naive stuff about the US economy,
the paper finally had a eureka moment. Last Thursday it wrote about, "A Scarred
U.S. Economy. Complete Recovery Looks Distant as Growth Lingers at Only 2 Per
Cent."

I've been calling it a broken economy.

But "scarred" is good, too, when you are just starting out down the road to
honesty and enlightenment.

The Times really didn't have much of a choice. The Congressional Budget Office
came out the day before and downgraded the growth prospect of the US economy to
just 2 percent a year.

And Treasury Secretary Jack Lew also bemoaned our slow growth.

After the Times piece ran, the International Monetary Fund cut its view of US
economic growth - and took growth prospects for the rest of the world down as
well because of America's dismal recovery.

On Wednesday even the Federal Reserve joined the crowd and lowered its economic
forecasts.

The IMF even speculated that the Federal Reserve wouldn't be able to stop its
addiction to Quantitative Easing bond buying. (More on that in a moment.)

So the Times jumped on board, although it did so in the business pages and not
the front of the paper, where most of its optimistic misses have occurred.

Still, it's good to admit your errors and confess in public. (The Times needn't
worry. With enough lobbying, the usual cajoling and a few massive and
incomprehensible articles, it can probably win a Pulitzer for its economic
coverage anyway. )

Of course, I'm not rooting for a bad economy. I - and more important, my kids -
have to live in this weak business cycle. But I have to admit that seeing the
Times munch on crow - and to do it after six years of careful preparation - is a
bit rewarding.

Now that I got that out of my system, back to the issue at hand - the fact that
the US economy can only grow at an abnormally slow 2 percent annual rate.

The problem with all those predicting 2 percent growth is this: They have been
assuming that's the floor from which the US economy will eventually climb.

What if 2 percent is as good as the economy gets because of excessive US debt,
foolish money printing, corrosive politics and the fact that low interest rates
have robbed savers of their ability to spend and maintain their lifestyle?

The Federal Reserve, of course, thinks it has things under control. On
Wednesday, Fed chief Janet Yellen scaled back QE bond purchases by another $10
billion and said the Central Bank would continue to do so if economic conditions
allowed.

Clearly Yellen thinks she will be able to continue these QE reductions. But I
think (as the IMF does) that the Fed will need to stick with QE for longer than
it hopes to, especially when the employment statistics lose the benefits later
this summer of P.E.E. - Performance Enhancing Estimates.

If that's the case, and the economy slows from even its tepid expansion, the
country is going to need another plan. Luckily I happen to have one in my back
pocket. It's a little crumpled because people have been ignoring it for years
even as the economy continued to disappoint; but I think I can still read it.

Here it is: Change the rules on retirement plans so that people can invest and
spend some of the trillions they have saved. Let them, at least, buy real estate
with the money.

The stock market bubble is something that's pretty to look at - until it bursts.

But there's little trickle down benefit to the economy if all the gains are tied
up in retirement accounts and do not help provide the economy with liquidity.

We need stimulus that neither Washington nor the Fed has been able to provide,
and I think this'll do it.

Wall Street will hate this plan because it will cause withdrawals from accounts
financial firms are managing.

Well, screw Wall Street. It's about time we started looking out for everyone
else.

n

GM needs to get honest about the problems with the Camaro's ignition.

I own a 2013 Camaro, and I like it a lot. I even like GM.

But I have a problem with the auto maker pretending that only awkward people who
push the driver's seat too far forward are likely to accidently move a Camaro's
key with their knee into the off position.

That turns off the entire car, which then has to be glided to a stop without
power steering or power brakes or air bags.

As you can imagine, this is dangerous. And no other car I know of lets the
driver move the key to the "off" position when the vehicle is in gear.

Yes, I tested this defect on an isolated road last Sunday and that's exactly
what happens when you move the key - you get a helpless car in the middle of the
road.

But it's not just a small segment of drivers who could be affected by this
oversight.

The Camaro's ignition is right next to the lever for the wipers and the paddle
shifter for the alternative manual transmission.

Although I haven't done it accidentally yet, it looks pretty easy to
inadvertently swipe at the wipers or paddle shifter and hit the ignition key
instead.

I think GM needs to fix this problem fast. I don't want to die!

john.crudele@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

A NYC Restaurant Crisis? Baloney

BYLINE: and

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 585 words


In a city of more than 8 million people and ever-evolving neighborhoods and
demographics, restaurants come and restaurants go.

How alarming is this?

To those ignorant of the city's ceaseless cycles of change, it might be a crisis
of global-warming magnitude. An outpouring of angst over supposedly lethal rent
increases was prompted by this week's New York Times story that famous East 16th
Street eatery Union Square Cafe will close at the end of 2015 because it can't
afford the hike in its rent.

It's certainly sad news that Danny Meyer's trail-blazing, widely beloved
restaurant is to close after 30 years, even though USC lost its culinary buzz
years ago.

But does it epitomize a crisis that threatens the future of all New York City
restaurants?

After all, more new places than ever before have opened and thrived in recent
years - The Dutch, Carbone, ABC Cocina, Betony, Arlington Club, Sushi Nakazawa
and The Cecil, to name a few.

Yet, the USC case prompted celebrity chef Bobby Flay to tell the Times' Julia
Moskin, "Eventually, they're going to drive away all the people and places that
make New York City interesting."

Flay didn't mention that the frightfully inhospitable climate didn't dissuade
him from recently opening Gato, a new, giant, Spanish-inspired restaurant that's
enchanted critics and customers.

Popular TV chef Andrew Zimmern, who boasts 711,000 Twitter followers, tweeted
that USC's closing was "scary news" and "one of the most important stories about
the future of restaurants you will ever read."

Tyler Colman's witty food and wine blog, "Dr. Vino," termed USC's impending
shutdown symptomatic of Manhattan's "Rentmageddon." Online publication Business
Insider cited "the same problem plaguing establishments all over Manhattan: the
rent is too damn high."

Yet, thanks to an awkward, gaping hole in the Times story, we don't even know
what kind of rent increase Meyer is talking about.

We're told only that USC's 1985 rent was $48,000 a year, and the landlord now
wants $650,000 when the current lease is up.

But what's the rent now? Assuming the lease has been renewed since 1985, it
could be closer to $650,000 than to $48,000 - which would make the prospective
hike less scary.

The omission makes it impossible to evaluate Meyer's professed anguish over an
"unaffordable" increase. His office didn't get back to us.

Building owner Ari Ellis wouldn't tell us the current rent, either. But the
restaurant-loving landlord - whose other eatery tenants include USC's neighbor
Bluewater Grill - did say, "I thought Union Square Cafe was gone even before
negotiation started. I couldn't even get them to give me a number at which
they'd renew," Ellis said.

In other words, USC's exit might not be about rent at all.

For sure, rent increases may on occasion price pioneering eateries out of
neighborhoods they helped put on the map. But those few losses must be weighed
against the larger picture.

The real-estate industry is the best thing that ever happened to the restaurant
industry.

Improvements to once obscure neighborhoods have brought more good places to eat
than ever, from the Battery to Inwood.

Many of our greatest restaurants were birthed by collaborations between
visionary property owners and restaurateurs.

Among them: Le Bernardin, Jean-Georges, Per Se, Masa, The Four Seasons, Eataly,
Aureole, Oceana and Meyer's own Maialino.

It's reason for "Rentmageddon" propaganda to make you laugh - or gag.

scuozzo@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 21, 2014 Monday

A Team of Enablers Behind Obama's Failures

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 313 words


The Issue: Whether members of President Obama's administration have allowed him
to make bad decisions.

Fred Hiatt blames the problems the Obama administration is dealing with on the
president's team, saying they're loyalists incapable of disagreeing or offering
another approach ("Why Team Obama Needs a Shakeup," PostOpinion, July 15).

When President Obama came on the scene, all we had was a sketchy record about
him having attended three universities, his stint as an Illinois legislator and
his short period in the US Senate. The media failed or did not want to examine
his background. Nothing in his background qualified him to be president. He has
never managed anything, never prepared a budget, never negotiated a contract and
never run a business.

We know that he does not take criticism lightly and that he is quick to blame
Republicans, Fox News, global warming, George W. Bush and corporations for his
failures. And sadly, we know that he is a gifted liar. When the heat is finally
turned up by a reluctant media, Obama cleverly shifts to a different subject,
such as climate change.

The problem is not Obama's staff. It is Obama himself: incompetent and
incapable.

William C. Gamble

Bridgeville, DE

Perhaps Jimmy Carter was an ineffective president, but what can be said about
Carter cannot be said about Obama: Jimmy Carter did not view the United States
with contempt.

James Monroe

Long Beach

The fact that Obama has many people who think he is doing a good job is
troubling.

Imagine if we had a media that functioned honestly. If we had honest media that
weren't so biased to the left, Obama would probably have been impeached by now.

Two things are keeping Obama in office: dishonest media and Vice President Joe
Biden. If America thinks so poorly of Obama, Biden must be thought of even
worse. Charlie Honadel

Staten Island

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 27, 2014 Sunday

Jay & Bey: Hitsville to 'splitsville' Global conquest, frosty love & the truth
behind THAT elevator ride

BYLINE: Maureen Callahan and Stacy Brown

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1434 words


They are one of the most famous couples on earth, yet intensely private - rarely
allowing a glimpse of anything but the picture of a marriage and partnership
that is constantly, blissfully happy.

But a source who has been close to Beyonce and Jay Z for years tells The Post
that all is not well - and hasn't been for quite some time. This is the first
peek behind the firewall that is Beyoncé and Jay Z Inc. - what drew them
together, why they're headed for a split and why love was never the thing that
held them together.

"There's still something there, even though it's not going to last," says the
source. "Business is always part of the equation. They know they're the king and
queen of hip-hop - and really, all of music. Neither wants to lose that."

Their current "On the Run" tour is predicted to gross $100 million, according to
Forbes - which also ranked Beyoncé the world's most powerful celebrity of 2014,
with Jay Z ranked sixth. Billboard ranked the couple No. 1 on their February
2014 Power 100 list. Their combined net worth, according the International
Business Times, is nearly $1 billion.

But in the weeks since Beyoncé's sister Solange was caught attacking Jay Z in a
hotel elevator after the Met Gala, the couple's tightly controlled image has
been crumbling. And while they've been pushing back, kissing on stage and
playing happy family on Instagram, the source says Jay and Bey are permanently
broken, and that both are at fault.

"Knowing them as I do, obviously there's a little something to certain rumors,"
the source says. "When your man or your woman isn't getting it done for you, and
I'm talking emotionally, not necessarily sexually . . . they keep things quiet."

Not for much longer.

'THEY'RE THE ONLY SHARKS'

When Jay Z and Beyoncé first got together in 1999, she was a star but a
sheltered one. At 19, she still lived with her parents in Houston - dad Matthew,
who quit his job at Xerox to manager her career with Destiny's Child, and mom
Tina, who became the group's stylist. She hinted at being a virgin, and it's
reported that she left school at 14.

Jay Z, then 30, had emerged from the Brooklyn projects as a hip-hop powerhouse.
Having released his critically acclaimed debut "Reasonable Doubt" in 1996, he
had a breakthrough commercial smash with 1998's "Vol. 2 . . . Hard Knock Life."
A year later, Jay Z was arrested for allegedly stabbing producer Lance "Un"
Rivera in a dispute over bootlegging; Jay pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and
walked away with three years' probation.

Jay Z and Beyoncé have always been circumspect about the beginnings of their
romance, even as they stoked intrigue with their collaborations. After breaking
with Destiny's Child, Beyoncé's next project was a duet with Jay on his " '03
Bonnie and Clyde," and in the video, they played a hip-hop version of the outlaw
couple.

When Beyoncé released her first solo album, 2003's "Dangerously in Love," Jay
appeared on two tracks - including the first single and video for "Crazy in
Love." It was a master stroke of marketing: She gave him class, he gave her
cred.

Jay Z was infatuated with Beyoncé, says the source, but the bottom line was
business; he knew he could do big things for her, and together they could be a
juggernaut. For Beyoncé, however, it was a slower burn. According to an
interview with the Web site Celebuzz, her uncle Larry Beyince said that
initially his niece had no interest.

"He was after her and she wasn't," Beyince said. "She told me she wasn't too
fond of him . . . I guess she wasn't attracted to him."

The source says Beyoncé was most interested in Jay's mind. "Jay's a kingmaker;
she recognized that. This was a come-up for her, no question. She had to learn
the ropes as presented by Jay - but really, this was mostly about business." As
for dating others, he says, "they each had guilty pleasures."

The source believes that, along the way, she did really fall for Jay Z, and her
parents, who had groomed Beyoncé to be a star from a very young age, were fine
with it - for a time.

But Matthew Knowles - who was described by former Destiny's Child member LaTavia
Roberson as "a drill sergeant" who made the girls work hours a day, seven days a
week - slowly found himself edged out of his daughter's life and career by Jay
Z. Beyoncé had gone from one man to another, never truly being on her own.

"There's no bigger controller than Jay," the source says. "She's great, but
she'd be a little lower on the totem pole if it weren't for hooking up with
him."

In terms of ambition, talent, business acumen and work ethic, Beyoncé and Jay Z
were perfectly matched. "They are solid, solid business people who know what
they're doing," says the source, with Jay the mastermind. Their image, joint and
separate, is based on exclusivity and unavailability; everything from the drop
date of an album (2013's "Beyoncé," with its surprise one-day onslaught of 14
tracks and 17 videos) to a baby (Blue Ivy, born on a cleared-out hospital floor
in NYC) is shrouded in mystery.

Instead of interviews, they post to Instagram or drop clues in their lyrics.
Beyoncé herself has spent every single day since 2005 being trailed by her own
personal camera crew, which documents each waking moment of her life. In 2013,
Beyoncé told GQ magazine that she stores the footage in a climate-controlled
warehouse based on the NBC library.

"I now know that yes, I am powerful," she told GQ. "I'm more powerful than my
mind can even digest and understand."

"They don't subscribe to that 'teach-a-person-to-fish' thing," says the source.
"They'll give you a fish once in a while, but they let everyone know that
they're the only sharks in the water. Jay hangs with some of the crew from [his
company] Roc Nation, but he's doing bigger things than even they can keep up
with. And Beyoncé only really gives her sister Solange and [ex-Destiny's Child
members] Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams any real love. But even they can't
swing by without first getting clearance."

And it can be hard to stay in touch - Beyoncé and Jay Z both change their
cellphone numbers every two weeks.

Even other celebrities aren't immune to quality control. It's not who they hang
out with, says the source - "it's who hangs out with them." According to the
source, they shunned Kanye West and Kim Kardashian's wedding because it was too
low-rent for the Jay Z/Beyoncé brand. "They are guarding like hell their
status," the source says. "Beyoncé wasn't going to allow a Kardashian to
socially climb her. And Jay didn't want Kanye with Kim - he thinks it's bad for
business. I think Jay lost a little respect for Kanye there."

'BUSINESS FIRST'

Over the past few months, says the source, Beyoncé has been losing respect for
Jay Z and, ever on-brand, she's been dropping hints. While performing
"Resentment" during the couple's June 28 show in Cincinnati, Beyoncé changed the
lyrics from "Been ridin' with you for six years" to "Been ridin' with you for 12
years." That would reference the year they became a couple.

And after the lyric "I gotta look at her in her eyes and see she's had half of
me," Beyoncé tacked on the lines, "She ain't even half of me/That bitch will
never be." Recent photos show that the "IV" tattooed on her ring finger - for
her birthday, Jay's birthday, and their wedding date - has been erased.

The source says the elevator fight after the Met Ball was really over Jay's
protégé Rihanna, who he allegedly planned to meet later that night at his 40/40
club.

"Solange was like, 'Enough is enough - you must be [screwing] Rihanna,' " says
the source. "To many people who know them, they know it's not out of the realm
of possibility."

Today, the source says, it's not whether they'll split, but how they'll split -
adding that the only time Jay and Beyoncé are really together is on stage.
They're allegedly traveling with marriage counselors, but Jay - as he's always
done - spends much of his time on the phone, tending to business.

"His phone's constantly ringing," says the source, "Jay trying to make deal
after deal."

Calls to representatives for the couple by The Post were not returned.

The question now is whether to stay married while essentially living separate
lives - becoming the Bill and Hillary of hip-hop - or publicly divorce.
Ultimately, it will be about the brand.

"There's face-saving involved - they don't want to be looked at like other
celebrities out there," says the source. "They are business people first,
entertainers second. Husband and wife comes somewhere down the line."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Just duet: Power couple Jay Z and Beyoncé perform together last month
on their "On the Run" tour, even as insiders say their romance is cooling fast.
(Invision for Parkwood Entertainment)Beyonce sis Solange. (GC Images)Rihanna.
(PacificCoast News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 10, 2014 Sunday

NUTS JOB Liberals are trying to write off all conservatives as crazy - but
Americans aren't buying it

BYLINE: KYLE SMITH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 830 words


One of these words is not like the others (or maybe they're all pretty much the
same - you make the call): Loon, nutjob, crank, wingnut, whackjob, cuckoo,
crackpot, dingbat, wacko, conservative.

Can't spot the outlier? You might be a liberal. Because even among the Very
Serious and Highly Respected voices on the left, "conservative" and "crazy" are
synonyms.

A recent example: A highly acclaimed book that examines the conservative
movement in the 1970s, Rick Perlstein's "The Invisible Bridge: The Fall of Nixon
and the Rise of Reagan." The book is the kind of thing that liberals praise as
an evenhanded portrait of the Right. You know, kinda like how "Super Size Me"
was totally fair about McDonald's.

One liberal dissenter, Sam Tanenhaus, writing in The Atlantic, describes the
book as implying "contempt not just for Nixon but for the public that eventually
elected him president twice, the second time in one of the biggest landslides in
history. For Perlstein, the mere fact of a President Nixon is explicable only as
pathology. . . . Perlstein describes the centrist Nixon as the sole author of
'the fracturing of America,' who feasted on middle-American fears . . . even as
he turned the federal government into a private militia."

The book, continues Tanenhaus, is "a manic chronicle of what Philip Roth, in a
different context, once called 'Pure American Dada,' and what Perlstein himself
has labeled the 'wingnuttism' of the 'whackadoodle far-right.' Perlstein's gift
for energetic caricature and his taste for bizarre incidents have overpowered
his impulse to sift through the ideas and beliefs that animate his subjects, and
to grapple seriously with a politics rooted in authentic if not always coherent
dissent."

If you have any doubts about Perlstein's mindset, his 2012 Rolling Stone column,
written as Republicans were in the process of nominating known crazypants Mitt
Romney to be their party's standard-bearer, is a little more frank.
"Conservatism has gotten crazier than ever," he wrote. "Are right-wingers
scarier now than in the past? They certainly seem stranger and fiercer. I'd
argue, however, that they've been this crazy for a long time . . . Loony
conservatives are now the Republican mainstream, the dominant force in the GOP."

Yet Perlstein is a liberal's idea of "balanced" and someone who "doesn't
condescend" (Frank Rich, in his New York Times Book Review rave).

What about the liberal writers who make no pretense whatsoever of understanding
their ideological opposites? Here's a partial list of the hundreds of
conservatives who have been labeled "wingnut" by Salon.com alone: Chief Justice
of the United States John Roberts, Justice Antonin Scalia, columnist Jonah
Goldberg, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (and his predecessor Eric
Cantor), the Heritage Foundation, the American Enterprise Institute, Sen. Marco
Rubio and Gov. Chris Christie.

If these people and institutions are cuckoo, then conservatism itself is crazy.
And that is exactly what liberals think. (Sometimes this tendency takes
eccentric form, as when liberals argue that it's "crazy" not to panic about
climate change.)

Liberals hope to tag completely mainstream conservative thought as outside the
boundaries of polite discourse, but the electorate keeps refusing to comply by,
for instance, electing a Congress designed to serve as a stalwart check on
progressivism for 16 of last 20 years. This is baffling to liberals. How can
that many Americans be batspit insane?

Remember that liberals are the ones who are always claiming to have superior
powers of empathy and tolerance - and a more sophisticated sense of science,
which has shown us that conservatives are actually the ones who are better at
seeing things from the other guy's point of view. An experiment by psychologist
Jonathan Haidt (sometimes called "an ideological Turing test") asked liberals
and conservatives to put themselves in the other guy's socks for the duration of
a test and ask them: How would your ideological opponent answer?

Conservatives were far better at liberals at this game, though that should have
been easy to guess. When a conservative goes to the movies, picks up nearly any
newspaper or watches TV news on any channel but one, he gets the liberal point
of view. Liberals, especially in a place like New York, can easily seal
themselves off from principled conservative thinking and many choose to do so. A
result is that they haven't a clue how conservatives think.

Liberals also kid themselves that they're better at arguing than conservatives,
but calling your opponent crazy is an appeal to emotion, not reason. It's also a
lazy schoolyard taunt, and it fails an elementary rule of debate, the
prohibition of ad hominem remarks.

As Margaret Thatcher once put it, "I always cheer up immensely if [criticism] is
particularly wounding because I think well, if they attack one personally, it
means they have not a single political argument left."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "The Invisible Bridge," like most liberal histories, tries to write off
conservatives such as Reagan as "wingnuts." Post photo illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

Endquote

BYLINE: RICHARD JOHNSON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 29 words


"They say this was arguably the most high-profile, significant meeting - that
will in no way change anything whatsoever - ever."

- Jimmy Kimmel on the UN Climate Summit

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

Cara knows breast

BYLINE: RICHARD JOHNSON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 98 words


Forget about climate change. The great cause of the moment is the fight for the
right of women to bare their breasts in public.

Cara Delevingne (right) touts the @freethenipplelives Instagram in the new issue
of Allure.

The campaign is pressing to scrap laws in states that allow men to go topless
while women are forced to suffer under restrictive garments.

Delevingne, who reportedly romanced actress Michelle Rodriguez, also has a great
explanation of why she prefers the company of women: "It's harder to become
friends with guys, because guys just want to have sex with you."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : Cara DELEVINGNE. (Lionel Hahn/startraksphoto)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

Well Hello Bear! Grizzlies to replace Gus at Central Pk.

BYLINE: georgett Roberts , and Bob Fredericks

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 308 words


Gus, the beloved "bi-polar" Central Park Zoo attraction who died a year ago, is
finally being replaced - by a pair of frisky grizzlies named Betty and Veronica.

Unlike the morose Gus, who spent countless hours swimming laps in his small pool
and was eventually diagnosed with depression, Betty and Veronica, 22 and 23,
have a rep for hijinks that rivals their comic-book namesakes.

"Our grizzly bears respond to various cues from their keepers - standing for a
belly exam and ­offering their claws for a nail trim. They've also learned how
to raise their paw in a wave!" The Bronx Zoo, where the grizzlies (like this
one) currently reside, boasts on its Web site.

But the duo - named for the leading female characters in "Archie" comics - will
have a tough act to follow in Gus, who was euthanized in August 2013 at age 27
after developing an inoperable tumor.

His death prompted a widespread effort - led by The Post using the hashtag
#HonorGus on Twitter - to persuade the zoo to get another polar bear.

But officials said there just were not any available, as other zoos who have
polar bears use them as the centerpieces of their exhibits on climate change and
were unwilling to give them up.

Visitors on Tuesday were thrilled that bears, believed to be the zoo's first
grizzlies, would be returning to Central Park in November - though opinions
differed on whether the zoo should have held out for another polar bear.

"Gus was a true New Yorker. He gave us 27 years, let's give another polar bear
27 years," said Bella McLaughlin, 55, a school health aide.

Linda Blumenfeld, 57, a dog trainer from Brooklyn, said the Big Apple was too
hot for a bear more accustomed to lounging on an iceberg.

"I would not want another polar bear to go through our insanely hot summers as
Gus did, so I will take the grizzlies," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grizzly bear. (Wildlife Conservation Society

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 8, 2014 Wednesday

NYC's Hell-icopter Menace: Our Noisiest Terror Target

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 384 words


The Issue: Activists' warnings about security risks from helicopters and
complaints about their noise.

As a more-than-20-year resident of Lower Manhattan, I want to thank The Post for
raising the alarm on the plague of sightseeing helicopters hovering over our
national and local landmarks ("Helicopters over NYC are terror weapons 'waiting
to happen': watchdog," Oct. 6).

From my home in Battery Park City, I regularly bear witness to multiple choppers
buzzing the Statue of Liberty and the World Trade Center. These flights have no
TSA screening and little other security.

Has 9/11 taught us nothing?

John Dellaportas

Manhattan

I live on the New Jersey waterfront, and the constant noise is unbearable. Until
recently, I worked at the World Financial Center and witnessed the noise from
these flights in the Battery Park City area.

There are no tourists who come to New York just for the helicopter rides, and I
am sure ending them would not affect tourism. Please keep the pressure on the
mayor to act.

Harry Stromnes

West New York, NJ

The constant drone of rotor blades is especially bad when commercial flights use
the Hudson River as their approach path to area airports. The helicopters fly at
lower altitudes, causing lights to flicker and windows to rattle.

Mayor de Blasio says he is committed to alleviating climate change. How about
starting with the carbon emissions from totally unnecessary helicopter flights?

There are many ways to see the city - buses, boats, bikes, public
transportation, walking, etc. I doubt that tourists would stop coming to the
city if they couldn't take a helicopter ride.

I wish more of the media would focus on this issue of tourist and commuter
helicopters.

Catherine Waterworth

Manhattan

I used to thoroughly enjoy my visits to Governor's Island. But now, over the
last few years, the experience has been completely destroyed by the incessant
sound of helicopters buzzing over the island, one after the other, all day long.

The island was once an oasis of peace and quiet - no traffic, the sound of birds
and surf, beautiful mature trees and fresh air - but now it is a flyover zone
for a few tourists and the bane of New Yorkers trying to decompress on a
once-beautiful island.

Matt Marello

Manhattan

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A view of One WTC from a helicopter. [Getty]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

Spurious George's faded star

BYLINE: ANDREA PEYSER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 729 words


Is George Clooney over?

Is the Oscar-winning actor, producer, director, screenwriter and recent
bridegroom, a Kentucky-bred hottie who doubles as a liberal activist and world
savior, annoyingly whiny, weird and washed up?

The hints that Clooney, 53, had grown as spoiled and culturally irrelevant as a
dented can of Spam were evident even before another delectable man, the
Welsh-born Oscar-winning actor Christian Bale, 40, articulated something that
many admirers of high-end beefcake had already suspected. Clooney, a guy who men
have long wanted to be and women wanted to love - heck, some gals craved to be
him and guys were desperate to love him - is actually a girly man.

What? The next things you'll hear are that global warming isn't real and that
Clooney's Batman was just an average guy in a tight rubber costume! ("Sorry
about the nipples on the suit," Clooney said in October at New York Comic Con,
where he promoted his coming movie "Tomorrowland," thus apologizing, 17 years
too late, about his cringe-worthy star turn in the 1997 flick "Batman & Robin.")

This was the devastating pronouncement about Clooney made by Bale, who played a
far less embarrassing Caped Crusader in subsequent movies:

"Boring," Bale said about him in a cover story in WSJ Magazine's
December/January issue.

Bale was turned off, as many of us have become, by Clooney's incessant
complaining about the paparazzi. He whinges about the persistent shutterbugs the
way one might expect a pampered celebutard to moan about being forced to fly in
business class.

"It doesn't matter that he talks about it. It's like, 'Come on, guys, just shut
up and live your lives and stop whining about it.' I prefer not to whine about
it," said Bale, who plays Moses in the movie "Exodus: Gods and Kings," due out
next week.

Bale, who's kept the spotlight away from his personal life - he's been married
for more than 14 years and has two kids with Sibi Blazic, 44, an American former
model, makeup artist and personal assistant to actress Winona Ryder. It's not
that photographers haven't tempted him to get rough. He described being in Italy
on a film shoot when a man stood outside his hotel hurling obscenities at his
wife. "Am I able to say I'm not gonna give him the satisfaction of angry
Christian Bale coming after this man?" he said. "But equally, he's killing my
humanity and my dignity as a husband if I do not, and he knows this. So you've
got a choice."

Before his September wedding to British-Lebanese human-rights lawyer Amal
Alamuddin (right), 36, Clooney persuaded the mayor of Laglio, Italy - Clooney
owns a villa in Laglio, on Lake Como - to enact anti-paparazzi laws, according
to The Huffington Post. He secured two protection orders forbidding the paps
from getting close to his house, or approaching his mansion by water. The edicts
expired Sept. 30.

But Clooney made a spectacle of himself, getting into a sissy fight and storming
out of at a boozy April dinner in Las Vegas with hotel magnate Steve Wynn, 72.
The men argued over Clooney's pal, President Obama. The actor has met with the
president in the White House, bending his ear over the humanitarian crisis in
Sudan.

Wynn "called the president an a- -hole . . . this is a fact," Clooney told the
Las Vegas Review Journal newspaper in an e-mail message sent by his publicist.
"I said the president was my longtime friend and then he said 'your friend is an
a- -hole' . . . At that point, I told Steve that HE was an a- -hole and I wasn't
going to sit at his table while he was being such a jackass.'' Wynn got in the
last word, however, denying on Bloomberg TV that he insulted the president and
saying that celebs, including Clooney, "live in a very strange bubble of their
own."

"They're mollycoddled, they're highly privileged," he said.

But Clooney reserved his greatest contempt for those of us who harbor doubts
about the reality of global warming.

"Well, it's just a stupid argument," Clooney told reporters last year. "The idea
that we ignore that we are in some way involved in climate change is
ridiculous."

And some people are pushing him to run for president of the United States in
2016!

With his good hair and deadpan line delivery, George Clooney is guilty of the
No. 1 sin of the soon-to-be has-been: He's started to believe his own hype.

Stick a fork in him. He's done.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: :George Clooney and wife Amal. (La Presse/ZUMAPRESS.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday

WAR ON COPS Now it's 'war' PBA tactic: '2 cars on EVERY call'

BYLINE: Jamie Schram , Kirstan Conley and Ben Feuerherd

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 624 words


The first assassination of an NYPD officer since the 1988 ambush of Edward Byrne
has rattled the rank-and-file - and prompted cops to adopt drastic "wartime"
policing tactics not seen since the 1970s.

"At least two units are to respond to EVERY call, no matter the condition or
severity, no matter what type of job is pending, or what the opinion of the
patrol supervisor happens to be," an e-mail widely circulated among cops advised
Saturday night.

Doubling the number of cops responding to even minor 911 calls would effectively
cut in half the NYPD's patrol strength.

The memo also pointed to potential slowdowns in arrest and ticketing activity:
"IN ADDITION: Absolutely NO enforcement action in the form of arrests and or
summonses is to be taken unless absolutely necessary and an individual MUST be
placed under arrest," the statement said.

"These are precautions that were taken in the 1970s when police officers were
ambushed and executed on a regular basis," the statement added.

"We have, for the first time in a number of years, become a 'wartime' Police
Department," the message concluded. "We will act accordingly. FORWARD MESSAGE IN
ITS ENTIRETY TO ANY AND ALL [members of the service.]"

Police brass did not immediately comment on the communication.

"This is just the beginning," one cop told The Post. "There are people out there
who will want to be copycats. The tension out there is the worst I've ever seen
it."

Vernon Geberth, a retired homicide lieutenant considered a legend in the NYPD,
said the assassination Saturday of Officers Rafael Ramon Wenjian Liu "brought me
back to the days of the 1970s when cops were routinely being assassinated.'' He
blamed the rhetoric of Mayor de Blasio for putting cops in danger.

Cops told The Post they are under seige - in the streets and online. One pointed
to a tweet that went out only hours after the tragedy: "Kill em all i'm on the
way to NY now #shootthepolice 2 more going down tomorrow."

Saturday night, Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams announced he would hold a
vigil Sunday night at 6 p.m. for "every New Yorker" at the scene of the
shooting, at Tompkins and Myrtle avenues.

THE INTERNET REACTS

@NYPD-CTTF, who identified himself as a detective. "I am begging the Mayor to
stay away from this incident,'' he posted. "There is no room for politics here.
This climate is a result of politics.''

@agentx420 "When the race war begins, find@ TheRevAl first. After all he's the
one who started it.''

@BuckeyeLainie "I guess the dead cop chanters got what they wished for.''
@teslanicole "Still standing by the notion that the only good cop is a dead
cop.''

@angelacarwile "Hey@ TheRev AL IS THIS WHAT YOU WANTED? Dead cops?

@BarryGadbo "Ask a cop how it feels to know their brothers died today for no
other reason than the color of their uniform.''

@NYKKIOfVelvetRope "The ambush of two police officers in a parked car in
Brooklyn makes me absolutely sick to my stomach."

@OfficialMel "DISGUSTED to hear reports about 2 police officers show execution
style in Brooklyn today. This is NOT the way for change."

@ChuckCJohnson "If you say F--- the police & kill cops you are responsible when
someone goes and does it.''

@ItsShayGorgeous "How does shooting two police officers sitting in their car
eating lunch solve anything? People are f---ing STUPID.''

@captaincwjensen "uh, if, uh i had a friend who was a cop they could look like
these officers #coplivesmatter #silentobama"

@dangainor "Remember this 'What do we want? Dead cops!' chant was only a week
ago in NYC. #ShutitDown #Ferguson''

@FLYYASSCHIP "2 cops killed in Brooklyn. Who can't breathe now ... :D
#NoJusticeNoPeace #PeopleDieEveryday"

- Tom Wilson

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGH ALERT: A heavily armed Emergency Service Unit officer stands watch
over the Bedford-Stuyvesant crime scene Saturday in the aftermath of the
execution-style shooting of two uniformed cops. (John Roca)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday

Bloomy bucks

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 121 words


WASHINGTON - No one ever accused Mike Bloomberg of being a piker, but the former
mayor's $27.7 million in federal political contributions this year placed him
second among top donors - far behind a fellow billionaire from California.

An analysis by Politico found that retired San Francisco hedge-fund executive
Tom Steyer tore through $74.3 million to back liberal candidates who take
climate change as seriously as he does.

Bloomberg donated to liberal and conservative candidates who lined up with him
on issues such as gun control and education reform.

In all, the top 100 donors shelled out $323 million to candidates in 2014,
almost as much as the $356 million in smaller amounts given by nearly 5 million
Americans.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday

Mike spreads his political wealth

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words


WASHINGTON - No one ever accused Mike Bloomberg (left) of being a piker, but the
former mayor's $27.7 million in federal political contributions this year placed
him second among top donors - far behind a fellow billionaire from California.

An analysis by Politico found that retired San Francisco hedge fund executive
Tom Steyer tore through $74.3 million to back liberal candidates who take
climate change as seriously as he does.

Forbes says Steyer is worth $1.6 billion, while Bloomberg's net worth was put at
$35.5 billion.

Bloomberg donated to both liberal and conservative candidates who lined up with
him on issues such as gun control and education reform.

In all, the top 100 donors shelled out $323 million to candidates in 2014,
almost as much as the $356 million in smaller amounts given by nearly 5 million
Americans.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : MICHAEL BLOOMBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 11, 2014 Sunday

Shrinking away from leadership

BYLINE: Michael Goodwin

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 752 words


As Barack Obama enters the twilight of his tenure, the ­debate over his legacy
is ­beginning, but one conclusion already seems certain. It can best be
described as "Honey, I shrunk the presidency."

Not since Jimmy Carter was held hostage by Iran has the Oval Office seemed so
inconsequential against the forces of international darkness. The mismatch is
particularly striking because smallness has been Obama's choice.

Although he is guilty of executive overreach at home, that bully behavior only
sharpens the contrast with a foreign policy that is feeble when it is not
comatose. The president's estrangement from the demands of global leadership is
giving a green light to tyrants and malevolent opportunists everywhere.

His preference for navel gazing over action was on full display last week. As
Russia and China menaced their neighbors and Islamist terrorists set off bombs
in a half-dozen countries, Obama accepted an award from Hollywood pal Steven
Spielberg for fighting genocide. Passing up a chance to give a full-throated
defense of freedom and Western civilization, the president lapsed into what The
New York Times called a "meditation" on the limits of his power.

That's far too kind. It was a white flag of surrender and more proof that Obama
lacks the capacity to shoulder the responsibilities that have belonged to the
Oval Office for 100 years.

The speech sounded like that of a man who is shocked to find that evil still
roams the Earth, and doesn't have a clue what to do about it. A long paragraph
of his meandering remarks, released by the White House, captures his sense of
helplessness.

"I have this remarkable title right now - president of the United States - and
yet every day when I wake up, and I think about young girls in Nigeria or
children caught up in the conflict in Syria - when there are times in which I
want to reach out and save those kids - and having to think through what levers,
what power do we have at any given moment, I think, 'drop by drop by drop,' that
we can erode and wear down these forces that are so destructive, that we can
tell a different story," Obama said.

If there was a course of action buried in that litany of woe, it ­escapes me.
The sequence amounts to a counsel of defeat.

Earlier, he had talked about rising anti-Semitism and the spread of sectarian
and tribal conflicts.

"We cannot eliminate evil from every heart, or hatred from every mind," he said.
"But what we can do, and what we must do, is make sure our children and their
children learn their history so that they might not repeat it. We can teach our
children the hazards of tribalism. We can teach our children to speak out
against the casual slur. We can teach them there is no 'them,' there's only
'us.' "

There you have it. We can teach our children warm and fuzzy things - assuming
they and we are not killed by madmen first. In which case, there's nothing we
can do.

The speech reflects how little Obama has grown in office. He initially viewed
American power as a problem that needed to be checked if the world was to find
lasting peace and harmony.

By and large, he followed that bad prescription by deliberately shrinking
America's global footprint, and the result is the astonishing chaos we see
around us. The vacuum is being filled not with democratic movements but by al
Qaeda, China, Russia and other authoritarian regimes eager to take advantage of
our retreat.

Obama's view of the world was wrong, and his policies are making it more
dangerous and less stable. Yet he is still sounding the call to retreat,
proposing new cuts to the military that would shrink it to pre-World War II
levels.

Having failed to listen or learn, Obama surveys the incomprehensible brutality
and sinks into an intellectualized self-pity. Indeed, there is special poignancy
to the fact that First Lady Michelle Obama joined the Twitter nation over the
Nigerian schoolgirl abductions.

The photo of her holding a sign saying "Bring Back Our Girls" is riveting, but
also odd.

Did she think to push her husband to do something?

And you wonder whom she expects to save the girls. The United Nations? The
terrorists themselves? Nigeria's government?

Maybe all of the above, which is to say no one, because, without the leadership
of the United States, there is no one who can maintain peace and security.

This is the result of the choice Barack Obama made. This is what the world looks
like when a president laments evil ­instead of confronting it.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -"Honey, I shrunk the kids."-President Barack Obama.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

SWINGING ON LENOX AVENUE There's no better boulevard to take in Harlem's hopping
culinary scene MALCOLM X BLVD. MARKS THE SPOT

BYLINE: and Steve Cuozzo; Free Range

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1268 words


Give tourist-trampled downtown a rest this holiday weekend and check out Lenox
Avenue - central Harlem's historic main drag, which is morphing, in fits and
starts, into uptown's most enjoyable boulevard.

Any emerging dining-and-drinking zone is more fun before it's stampeded by
frantic foodies and tourists. Right now, Lenox Avenue (a k a Malcolm X
Boulevard) has settled into the short-lived "sweet spot" between neighborhood
embrace and global discovery.

It isn't a "restaurant row" like Frederick Douglass Boulevard two blocks west.
Lenox's many churches make it hard to find locations for liquor licenses.

Yet, the stretch between West 118th and 131st streets now boasts 20-odd friendly
bistros and bars. Most offer outdoor seats on Manhattan's deepest sidewalk.
Legendary Sylvia's, early 21st-century pioneers Red Rooster and its downstairs
club Ginny's, Settepani, Chez Lucienne, Il Caffe Latte and Jacob have been
joined by a batch of brave new arrivals.

Just 15 years ago, empty storefronts blighted the avenue. Now, cuisines include
Italian, Southern, soul, Latin-American, Senegalese and French. Prices are lower
than downtown. Attitude is nonexistent.

Customers migrate from place to place - "A very common thing to do is to start
at Barawine at 120th Street and walk uptown, maybe with a stop at Corner
Social," says Alexandra Lerner, who co-owns the Serengeti tea boutique nearby.

Because many of the cafes are widely separated, going from one to the next
entails a pleasant stroll through Lenox's evolving streetscape, replete with
beautifully restored landmark buildings.

Much more's coming: a new Lenox Lounge, Richie Notar's unnamed music club at the
old Lenox Lounge site, and a bakery by "Beasts of the Southern Wild" star Dwight
Henry. Go now, before Hollywood takes over - and tell your friends you knew it
when it was still Harlem.

Barawine

200 Lenox Ave. (at 120th Street)

646-756-4154

Fabrice Warin, a veteran of Le Cercle Rouge and Orsay, launched this long,
stylish wine bar and bistro in August 2013, across the street from his home. Its
114 indoor and outdoor seats are full of preening beauties, cooing couples and
cute babies. The al fresco patio's a joy in warm weather. "You can't beat the
corner. It gets afternoon and evening sun," says regular customer Alexandra
Lerner.

Inside, it's pure modern French bistro, with lots of brass and tile, cozy
banquettes and walls of wine - 200 smartly chosen bottles and 25 choices by the
glass. The menu's strong on garden-fresh salads and bistro classics, such as
hanger steak and a perfectly turned out branzino provençal adorned with black
olives, asparagus and tomatoes.

Pa-paya Seed

171 Lenox Ave. (between 118th and 119th streets)

347-625-6306

A Harlem original opened last summer, this bright and cheerful stop for
self-serve frozen yogurt (made with vanilla almond milk) also offers breakfast
and smoothies.

Chéri

231 Lenox Ave. (between 121st and 122nd streets)

212-662-4374

In two pretty, romantic rooms with just 45 seats in total, Paris-born chef and
owner Alain Eoche offers only a two-course nightly dinner for $32. There's no
choice, you get whichever "table d'hôte" appetizer and entree strike his fancy.

The other night it was a crab-avocado compote to start, followed by boneless
pork loin in ginger-shallot sauce and mashed turnips.

The place is gorgeous, with a salonlike front room anchored by a fireplace and
piano (and a good player) and an airy, glass-roofed greenhouse.

"I want to cook every day with the same attention as if for friends coming to my
home," says Eoche, who lives upstairs.

Each night, he chooses "something that 99 percent of customers like." A salad or
a brie burger can be substituted for the stubborn 1 percent.

"It's not really a restaurant," Eoche chuckles. "It looks like a restaurant, but
I designed it like a house."

La Bodega 47

161 Lenox Ave. (at 118th Street)

212-280-4700

Owner Brian Washington-Palmer turned his former bistro Native into a
rum-focused, speakeasy-style social club that looks like a bodega from the
outside. In addition to 47 rums and killer cocktails, there's a short American
menu with hummus bowls and grilled calamari.

BLVD

239 Lenox Ave. (at 122nd Street)

212-678-6200

Since turning the former Boulevard Bistro into BLVD in March, chef Carlos
Swepson and his sister and business partner Joi have been gradually converting a
previously indistinct menu into a "crafted American soul" lineup relying on
well-sourced ingredients - including meat from well-regarded butcher Harlem
Shambles on Frederick Douglass Boulevard.

Customers enjoy fried turkey meatloaf, seafood gumbo and Mississippi
cornmeal-crusted grouper in 36 indoor seats, many in cozy booths, and 12 al
fresco seats at picnic tables in a sunken sidewalk terrace. I loved killer
shrimp and grits. House-made bread's served with cane sugar-blended butter. The
coffered-looking ceiling is actually wallpaper, but the warmth is the real deal.

Harlem Shake

100 W. 124th St.

212-222-8300

Since it opened last year, this sweet, retro snacks-and-dessert spot has become
more than just a kids' place.

Musa Jackson, a producer and events planner who's also president of the West
120th Street Block Association, says, "It branded Harlem, as well as brought in
the retro feel. It looks like it's been there forever. It's a meeting ground for
everyone. Grandma can bring her grandbabies, and there's a nice cross-section."

Set your dietary scruples aside for old-fashioned burgers, hot dogs and melts,
and for monster shakes made with New York state organic milk and Blue Marble ice
cream.

Astor Row Cafe

404 Lenox Ave. (at 130th Street)

212-491-2566

A funky coffee house opened by Venezuelan couple Manny and Rose Pena in 2012, at
the foot of West 130th Street's block of landmarked, front-porched rowhouses,
Astor Row Café is more than just a spot to share java and sandwiches at communal
tables - "It's a great social networking place," says enthusiastic customer Musa
Jackson.

If killer-strong, Mexican-spiced hot chocolate doesn't make you sweat, paintings
of young women amorously groping - including two nude in a toilet - might do the
trick. There's occasional live music and a monthly paella night. Twitter founder
Jack Dorsey has dropped in.

Lenox Sapphire

341 Lenox Ave. (at 127th Street)

212-866-9700

New partner Frederic Chirol is transforming owner Fall Fara's formerly
all-Senegalese Les Ambassades into a French bistro with a few spicy Senegalese
dishes on the menu. He's also doubling its size by adding a full-scale
pâtisserie that will share the same corner as the bistro's 35-odd sidewalk
seats.

Chirol, a veteran of La Goulue, oddly says they're not open yet. But the bistro
portion certainly was alive the other day when I popped by for lunch along with
other customers (things are still a little mysterious on Lenox) and enjoyed
mussels in a tingling, spiced Senegalese sauce for just $10.

---

WHERE IT'S AT (street map graphic)

1. Tio Luca, 421 Lenox Ave.

2. Astor Row Café 404 Lenox Ave.

3. Jacob, 373 Lenox Ave.

4. Lenox Saphire Bar & Restaurant, 341 Lenox Ave.

5. Cove Lounge, 325 Lenox Ave.

6. Corner Social, 321 Lenox Ave.

7. Red Rooster Harlem, 310 Lenox Ave.

8. Chez Lucienne, 308 Lenox Ave.

9. Harlem Shake, 100 W. 124th St.

10. BLVD, 239 Lenox Ave.

11. Chéri, 231 Lenox Ave.

12. Barawine Harlem, 200 Lenox Ave.

13. Settepani, 196 Lenox Ave.

14. Il Caffe Latte, 189 Lenox Ave.

15. Pa-paya Seed, 171 Lenox Ave.

16. La Bodega 47, 161 Lenox Ave.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Chéri: Your prix fixe meal might include chocolate mousse with orange
sauce. [Gabi Porter (4)]-Barawine: An upscale wine bistro offering quality vino
by the glass-and a DJ, too.-La Bodega 47: At this cocktail lounge, rum
rules.-BLVD: Modern soul food is served up in a cottage setting with ample
outdoor seating.-Chef Christophe Bonnegrace makes sure Barawine diners are
enjoying themselves. [Photos: Gabi Porter (12)]-Local resident Alexandra Lerner,
sipping from Barawine's well-chosen wine collection, is a fan of Lenox Avenue's
outdoor-cafe ambience.-There's no menu at Chéri. Every night there's a set
two-course dinner with luscious mains like this lamb shank.-Don't be fooled by
the exterior of Brian WashingtonPalmer's bar (far left). Inside is a classy spot
serving swell cocktails like the brandy-based Sleepyhead (inset).-Chef Alain
Eoche says he designed Chéri like a house, so these ladies must be dining in his
backyard.-Chef and co-owner Carlos Swepson has transformed the old Boulevard
Bistro into an eatery with more exciting fare like fresh blueberry pancakes
(inset) and seafood gumbo.-Harlem Shake has shaken up the local scene with a
cool retro vibe.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 6, 2014 Friday

I GREW UP WITH MADONNA In the early '80s, Lamont Clarke befriended a kooky girl
with big dreams. Thirty years later, she's Madonna and he's in prison. After a
Post photo conjured up those innocent times, he came forward to tell his story
THEY WERE FRIENDS FROM THE HOOD

BYLINE: and Jane Ridley

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1369 words


Posing on the Lower East Side rooftop with his posse and their kooky pal, a
diminutive Pied Piper figure known as Flaca, tough 14-year-old street kid Lamont
Clarke tried to stare down the camera.

It was the spring of 1983, and Flaca, an up-and-coming actress, dancer and
singer whose nickname was the Spanish word for skinny, had asked the teenage
crew to join in a photo session at her building.

Just a few months after the shoot, she would be known all over the world as
Madonna.

"You guys are my family," she affectionately told the gang. "Did you think I'd
leave you out?"

As far as the streetwise teens were concerned, Flaca was their fun older sister
- a bubbly confidante who played guitar on the sidewalk and grooved to the music
that blared from her beloved boombox.

They knew she had talent, but never imagined she'd become an international
superstar.

Three decades on, the early portraits of the pop diva have resurfaced in
photographer Richard Corman's book "Madonna NYC 83" and were featured in a
recent exhibition.

But it was only after The Post published an article about Corman's work that
Clarke, now serving a prolonged prison term for robbery, saw himself in the
pictures and recalled the shoot.

(Read a letter from Clarke to Madonna.)

"I'm a humble guy and never told no one that I knew Madonna," Clarke, 44, told
The Post in an exclusive jailhouse interview at the Eastern Correctional
Facility upstate in Napanoch, NY.

"But fellas kept coming to me with the paper and asking if one of those kids was
me. I couldn't lie and told them the truth."

He hopes Madonna, whom he called Sis, will get in touch so he can hand her a
personal letter explaining how much she meant to the gang and how much pride
they take in her success.

"I am happy for her because she is a beautiful person," says Clarke. "She didn't
judge or discriminate and helped all the people she could.

"She had a lot of love in her heart, and she'll always be my older sister."

Clarke, an orphan who was raised in poverty by his grandmother, first met
Madonna in the early '80s after she moved to Alphabet City from her native
Michigan. She rented a walk-up at 232 E. Fourth St., a stone's throw from his
tenement building.

They were introduced by a pair of brothers named Danny and Junito, who lived in
Madonna's apartment building. "There was a lot of racism with the whites, blacks
and Puerto Ricans, but Sis didn't care about the color of your skin," says
Clarke. "She was this mad cool girl, and she fitted in."

At the time, Madonna was dating Bronx DJ John "Jellybean" Benitez, a friend of
Danny's, who told the teens to look out for his girl when she came home late
from the recording studio or after performing gigs at nightclubs. "We policed
the block," says Clarke, whose five-strong gang TFK was an acronym for "Those
F-king Kids."

"We'd be out on our skateboards or playing skellies [a street game] and, if any
outsiders came in, we was skeptical and on their case."

The youngsters quickly bonded with Madge, who would hang out with them for hours
at a time on their rooftop and stoop. "Sis kept the radio right there, by her
side," recalls Clarke. "If she didn't have her radio, she had her guitar and she
was singing and dancing.

"On summer nights, Danny's mom would call to us: 'Hey, go get your friend Flaca!
Tell her to come sing for us.' "

Other times, they would sit on the floor in Madonna's sparsely furnished
apartment and eat pizza.

"We were tough dudes, and you didn't want no one to see your weak side, but Sis
listened to me," says Clarke. "I got into a lot of arguments with Danny, and
she'd say, 'C'mon fellas,' and calm it down.

"We were poor. We didn't have the latest fashion or the latest jewelry, but she
liked our style. We didn't have much, but we had a whole lot because we had each
other."

He believes she included them in Corman's photo shoot because she wanted to
share the experience with her "little brothers."

Although Madonna didn't talk much about her burgeoning showbiz career, they knew
she was destined for bigger things.

"We just didn't know how big," recalls Clarke. "She was 100 percent committed to
making it. Sis was successful on the inside, so currency was surely to come."

Madonna left the Lower East Side in the fall of 1983, around the time of the
release of her self-titled debut album.

Clarke has bittersweet memories about her departure because he never got to say
goodbye.

"One day, Junito was sitting on the stoop and the dude looked down," he recalls.
" 'Sis broke out,' he said. 'Sis left.'

"I tried to cushion the shock, saying that maybe she'd be back. Maybe one day
she'd come in a limousine, and the door would open, and she'd say, 'Get in,' and
give us tickets to her show.

"As a kid, you hope for that kind of thing. But none of it ever happened. We
just went on with life."

The gang broke up in the mid-'80s, after three members moved out of Manhattan.
One has since passed away, and Clarke, who started his 20-years-to-life sentence
in 1999 for second-degree robbery of a factory, has lost touch with the others.

"I got into the negative lifestyle, hustling on the streets," admits Clarke,
whose rap sheet included firearms possession. "I'm not dead, but I'm buried
alive here in jail."

The father of one is eligible for parole in 2017 and, if Madonna agrees to a
meeting, hopes to catch up with her and her family for old time's sake.

"I don't want anything from you, Sis, but I hope you get to read this article,"
adds Clarke, directly stating his message to Madonna. "Loyalty over royalty. I
know the love you had for us kids is still true."

-----

A TALE OF TWO FRIENDS: MADONNA'S GLAMOUROUS LIFE VERSUS LAMONT CLARKE'S STRUGGLE
TO GET BY (photo captions)

* Mid-'80s: As Madonna shoots to fame in the '80s with global hits such as "Like
a Virgin," Clarke, posing below with pals (second from right), spends his days
hanging out on the Lower East Side. He drops out of high school after 10th grade
and, as he describes it, starts "hustling on the streets." [Courtesy Everett
Collection]

* 1990: Around the time that Madonna is selling out concert halls across
America, Europe and Asia with her "Blonde Ambition" tour, a carefree,
21-year-old Clarke is working in construction. [Getty Images]

* 1995: Madonna's star continues to soar with an honor at MTV's Video Music
Awards. Clarke poses with his adorable 1-year-old son, Lamont Jr., at a photo
studio on Delancey Street on the Lower East Side. [Getty Images]

* 2002: Madonna and daughter Lourdes at the National Portrait Gallery in London.
Clarke poses for a family shot during a prison visit with his wife, Tanya, and a
7-year-old Lamont Jr. [Dave Benett/Getty Images]

A letter to Madonna from Lamont Clarke

There were a lot of things left unsaid when you left. As a kid, it is sometimes
hard to express your feelings. But what we shared is priceless.

It felt like we had a special bond because of our past issues, even though we
never spoke on it. We were happy together. Nobody judged, we watched each
other's back. I used to sit while eating pizza and think how comfortable and
humble you were sitting with the radio. You were already successful on the
inside, so currency was sure to come. You're not just loved and respected for
your music, but how you deal with life and help others. You're well-grounded,
Sis. Sincere efforts are always rewarded.

I never reached out to you before now. But [the picture in the New York Post]
was a sign from God. If I had reached out to you [before], the people around you
would have hurt my pride. I couldn't deal with that - people not knowing me but
judging me, saying: 'Forget him. That's the past and he wants money.'

I know family members do things like that, but I'm not that type of family
member. Rich or poor, you'll always remain my sister. The time we shared was
real love. No money was involved. I love you for who you are, not because of who
you've become.

If it's possible, I would love to see you after these 30 years. A warm, sincere
hug would do a lot these days. I'm very happy and proud of you. You did it, Big
Sis.

Love, Lamont, your little brother.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Clarke, 44, recognized his 14-year-old self (inset) in a recent Post
article about Madonna's early life in New York-he and his pals saw her as a big
sister. [Shannon DeCelle]-Madonna (in an early publicity shot) lived on the
fifth floor of this tenement building at 232 E. Fourth St., where she hung out
with Clarke before hitting it big. [Brian Zak/NY Post; Getty Images
(inset)]-Lamont Clarke.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
