
                               1 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

THE SHEEP LOOK UP; BIPARTISAN ANTI-ALBANY REVOLT

BYLINE: Fredric U. Dicker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 841 words


ALBANY

TWO stunning events in the past two weeks have provided the first glimmers of
hope that state government's Business as Usual culture may be about to change.

The first event, call it the populist attack from the left, came Nov. 14 at a
remarkable meeting on New York's dysfunctional governing process held by the
reform-minded Citizens Budget Commission. It was there that Nassau County
Executive Thomas Suozzi dropped a political bomb.

Suozzi, a 41-year-old, highly ambitious Democratic up-and-comer, said he was
weighing a plan to defeat two state lawmakers next year - a Senate Republican
and an Assembly Democrat - in order to send an unmistakable message to Albany
that state policies were crippling New York's local government.

And wouldn't it be nice, he suggested, if county executives and others around
the state adopted similar plans.

Suozzi's proposal, of course, went over like the proverbial lead balloon: It
first sparked a denunciation from Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver (D-Manhattan),
part of the triumvirate that now runs the state, then prompted Silver-linked
lobbyist Patricia Lynch to announce - in a move as revelatory about Albany's
insider culture as anything seen in modern times - that she was dropping Suozzi
and Nassau County as her clients.

"My proposal did strike a nerve and, of course, it hasn't received any support
from state legislators," said Suozzi with unmistakable sarcasm. "But," he
continued on a serious note, "it has received widespread support from good
government groups, editorial boards around the state and from others.

"People are mad across this state about their taxes, which are the highest in
America. Until now, people haven't connected their high local taxes with the
people who are causing them: our state legislators and the governor.

"My idea is to connect the dots as to who is creating this problem and then to
hold the people accountable." And that, by Albany standards, is a radical notion
indeed.

The second stunner, a potent awakening from the right, came Nov. 21 from the
Business Council, New York's largest business organization: It announced that a
just-completed survey had found that the overwhelming number of its members
wanted the council to be "sharper, blunter in critiquing government decisions
that worsen business climate."

The statement went on to quote the council's new chairwoman, Heidi Nauleau,
chairman of Aarque Companies in financially hard-hit Chautauqua County, in the
Southern Tier: "New York is reeling under the weight of public-policy mistakes
that have worsened our business climate. . . . Employers are tired of policies
that make New York less competitive and they want the Business Council to be
more vocal in saying so."

This was a breathtakingly public indictment of the laid-back, low-key and, most
importantly, politically non-confrontational policies of the council's longtime
president, former Democratic Assembly Majority Leader Daniel Walsh.

For years New York's business community, as represented by the Business Council
and others, has been quiescent and even downright supine in the face of runaway
state spending, massive expansions of entitlement programs and increasingly
dangerous fiscal practices.

Indeed, Gov. Pataki's political consultants have privately mocked the Business
Council and other such groups as hopelessly ineffectual and politically impotent
- in contrast to Dennis Rivera's hospital workers unionand other traditional
Democratic allies that Pataki has actively courted.

Such earned scorn, Business Council insiders insist, will soon be earned no
more.

Taken together, the looming Business Council shakeup (the revolt from the right)
and Suozzi's shock-therapy plan for the Albany crowd (the attack from the left)
are unprecedented in recent New York political history.

Combine them with increasing signs of voter discontent - the number of people
saying New York is heading in the wrong direction, for instance, has skyrocketed
in the polls - and it becomes plausible to believe that real change may be at
hand.

Manhattan real-estate executive and Citizens Budget Commission Chairman Dale
Hemmerdinger, who can give you more than an earful on New York's destructive
economic practices, says for the first time in years he's feeling a little bit
optimistic - because the scent of change is in the air.

"The most hopeful sign that I've seen came at our conference a few weeks ago
from two union leaders who were present," he recalled "They told me how their
own union members were becoming concerned about their futures and the futures of
their families because of the state's high taxing policies.

"I have never in my experience had union folks start talking to me about the
same concerns that we at the CBC have and that to me is enormously hopeful,"
Hemmerdinger noted.

The unions and Citizens Budget Commission together? Now that would be a real
change for New York.

Fredric U. Dicker is The Post's State Editor.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Spartacus? Nassau County's Tom Suozzi.

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               2 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 7, 2003, Sunday

CHANGING CLASSES; OVERHAUL KICKS IN TOMORROW

BYLINE: SUSAN EDELMAN and CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 630 words


One of the largest city experiments opens tomorrow with the ring of a bell.

And when schools open for business in the morning, Chancellor Joel Klein knows
the city will be watching to see if the multitude of changes he's instituted
make the grade.

In a pep-talk e-mail he shot out Friday, Klein wrote to staff, "Next week and
the weeks that follow are critical.

"I need you to run full out to make sure that your schools get off to a great
start and that your students and their parents get the information they need."

He urged principals to call his office's hot lines and "rapid response teams"
for help.

Klein has been criticized by many for moving too fast. Teachers were introduced
to the new math and reading curriculum and textbooks just last week.

But the chancellor's new methods come with clout.

With Mayor Bloomberg's mayoralty staked on the success of the city schools, the
heat is on to raise test scores.

"In this climate, people will be very wary - no one wants to make a mistake.
They're actually afraid to make a mistake," said Robin Brown, chairwoman of the
Chancellor's Parent Advisory Council.

Brown said Klein, who reports to Bloomberg, is "micromanaging" schools, putting
staff under "undue pressure," and stressing testing more than a "well-rounded
education."

Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum predicted the new school year will open with some
chaos and confusion over registration and transfers.

"The Department of Education has not done a very good job of getting information
out," said Gotbaum spokesman James Vlasto.

Peter Kerr, a Klein spokesman, sidestepped the critics.

"No one said the first day is going to be perfect," he said. "We're going to fix
things. We're going to listen."

He compared the city's educational crisis to a health epidemic - one that
requires swift action.

"When you have three out of four eighth-graders who can't read at their grade
level, and 50 percent of high-school students not graduating on time, you're
talking about a crisis and an emergency," Kerr said.

"It's not fair for another generation of kids to go through a system that fails
them, so we had to move fast. But sometimes change causes irrational fears and
anxieties."

Other changes for the new school year include:

* A new management structure that creates 10 new regional education czars.

* Paid "parent coordinators" at each school.

* Forty-five new schools, including the controversial Harvey Milk HS for gay and
lesbian students, as well as smaller high schools that replace larger, failing
schools, and 10 new reform schools for disruptive youngsters. Some of the new
schools, especially in Queens, may be overcrowded, officials said.

* A shake-up in special education, with services provided at schools instead of
regional offices.

* The NYPD and Department of Education have targeted 10 of the most violent high
schools to get extra safety agents.

Reading, writing & reform

Changes in city public schools this year

* Bureaucracy: 10 Regional Operation Centers replace 32 community school
districts.

* Curriculum: New standard reading and math programs.

* Teachers: 9,000 certified teachers hired. Up to 2,500 uncertified teachers
could be hired to fill shortages.

* School day: Except in high school, kids will get 50 minutes more instruction
one day per week.

* Testing: Kids in grades 3-8 will take three new tests to monitor their
progress.

* Safety: Extra safety agents for violent high schools.

* Discipline: 10 reform schools for disruptive students are set to open.

* Special ed: Services for kids with disabilities will be provided at schools.

* Parents: Schools will have a paid "parent coordinator." Parents can visit 13
new "learning centers" for information.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               3 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 28, 2003, Friday

A NEWER LOOK FOR NEW WTC

BYLINE: WILLIAM NEUMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 460 words


The scarred foundation of the World Trade Center shielded behind glass, a
memorial pit 30 feet below street level, and a spindly spire with a 110th-floor
restaurant - those are among the new twists in a rejiggered plan unveiled
yesterday by winning Ground Zero architect Daniel Libeskind.

But even with the changes to his original design, many questions remain about
the future of the scheme - including which agency will hire Libeskind, who was
praised yesterday by Mayor Bloomberg and Gov. Pataki at a press conference
officially announcing his selection.

Among the changes from his original proposal:

* The edges of the jagged office buildings have been softened.

* The memorial space - now 30 feet below street level in the Ground Zero pit,
instead of sitting 70 feet deep at bedrock - is shown covered with grass,
instead of starkly gray.

* The 1,776-foot-tall spire - the world's tallest - would contain a restaurant
on the 110th floor, replacing the destroyed Windows of the World.

One of the elements that is likely to raise eyebrows is the design's
preoccupation with the decaying concrete wall of the WTC basement. This wall,
never a visible part of the Twin Towers, was hidden for months after the 9/11
attacks until excavators cleared the debris.

But Libeskind wants to put the wall on display as symbol of the durability of
American democracy.

In fact, Libeskind wants to encase it behind viewing glass in a climate
-controlled space.

Who pays Libeskind could ultimately determine what gets done downtown -
depending on whether it's the Port Authority, which owns the trade-center site,
or the Lower Manhattan Development Corp., which has a more advisory role.

"This all has to be ironed out," said PA Executive Director Joe Seymour.

"Daniel will have to have input on the memorial competition, and we want to have
Daniel's input on designing [the Ground Zero rail terminal] . . . This is a
vision. Obviously, everyone hopes the majority of it will be upheld."

Trade-center leaseholder Larry Silverstein criticized an earlier version of the
plan, but he praised it yesterday.

"He says the Libeskind plan is exactly what was required and is a perfect site
plan," said Silverstein's spokesman, Howard Rubenstein.

Libeskind pleased Silverstein by increasing the office space on the site to
cover all 10 million square feet lost on 9/11.

THEN: NOW:

* 7.5 million square feet of office space * 10 million square feet of office
space

* 70-foot deep memorial pit * 30-foot deep memorial pit

* Exposed foundation "bathtub" walls * Foundation walls behind protective glass

* Stark, jagged look for the building * Smoother angles and softer colors


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANIEL LIBESKIND: Wants "wall" display.

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               4 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 9, 2003, Wednesday

HOOTIE'S TRUMP CARD CAN BEAT BURK

BYLINE: George Willis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 068

LENGTH: 605 words


AUGUSTA - Normally, Hootie Johnson's annual Masters week press conference is
sparsely attended and speckled with occasional yawns. But this morning all eyes
and ears will be on the chairman of Augusta National, who certainly will be
asked about the club's all-male membership and his year-long verbal feud with
Martha Burk, head of the National Council of Women's Organizations.

With the attention of the worldwide media, Johnson would be smart to take this
opportunity to halt Burk's posse of protesters by announcing plans to admit the
club's first female member by the 2004 Masters. Such an announcement would be
the ultimate checkmate on Burk, who is holding her own press conference tomorrow
at Martin Luther King Center in Atlanta. It also would allow both sides a chance
to claim victory, which is normally how all good political squabbles end.

Charles Farrell of Jesse Jackson's Rainbow/Push Organization said such an
announcement by Johnson would alter, if not eliminate, the need for a planned
protest on Saturday about a half-mile from the entrance to Augusta National.

"It would certainly change the emphasis of our demonstrations," said Farrell,
who plans to have 100 protesters from Push here supporting Burk. "That's what
we've called for from the beginning."

Farrell isn't holding his breath, however, saying if Johnson made such an
announcement, "we'd have to pick ourselves off the ground from shock."

Certainly, it would go against Johnson's public stances thus far. It has been
his acid-tongued lectures and public defiance of Burk that have fueled this
controversy. Last July, he vowed not to admit a female member, "at the point of
a bayonet." And in November he insisted "We have no timetable on the woman
member."

But that was before the war in Iraq made protests and controversies over golf
membership trivial. Even Tiger Woods tap-danced around the Burk issue yesterday
by saying, "We have a lot more important things going on in our country."

The notion Burk is going away after Saturday's protest is a mistake. She makes
her living staging confrontations and isn't going away until Johnson gives her a
reason to go away. As much as Augusta National tries to ignore the controversy
and conduct business as usual, its precious Masters Tournament threatens to be
stained.

Inside the gates, competing golfers squirm when asked their opinions on the
issue. "I've already answered that," Woods said. "Right now I'm just trying to
get myself ready to play on Thursday."

Outside the gates, "I Support Hootie," buttons are being sold next to signs that
read, "Martha Burk doesn't speak for me," and "Honk for Hootie." With a couple
of idiots from the Klu Klux Klan ready to stage their own anti-Burk protests
near the pro-Burk protesters, the climate for trouble still exists.

Woods could win an unprecedented third straight Green Jacket on Sunday, but
highlights of his winning putt could be followed by news made outside the gates.
"As it stands now, this is the Masters that's going to be known for more than
just a golf tournament," Farrell said.

Johnson, 71, has been stubborn in his approach to Burk. But he also is open to
change. Last week, he rescinded the age-65 playing limit for the Masters he
imposed last year, allowing past champions like Arnold Palmer to compete. And
the general feeling is he was considering female membership before clashing with
Burk.

Today, he can play the ultimate trump card by announcing plans to add a female
member by the 2004 Masters. That way the 2003 Masters is remembered for what
happens inside the gates instead of outside of them.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               5 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 11, 2003, Sunday

MIKE PUTTERS AROUND; GOLFS WITH BRUNO AMID BUDGET FIGHT

BYLINE: KENNETH LOVETT, JOE McGURK and STEPHANIE GASKELL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 655 words


Just days before Gov. Pataki is expected to veto parts of the Legislature's $93
billion budget, which includes bailout cash for the Big Apple, Mayor Bloomberg
was in Albany - golfing with Senate Majority Leader Joe Bruno.

Bruno holds the key for an override of any veto, but aides to both men said
yesterday's outing was just a "social" event.

"They like each other," said Bloomberg spokesman Ed Skyler. "Joe Bruno has done
a lot for New York City, and the mayor is very appreciative."

Pataki - who skipped out on his daughter's softball game in the fifth inning in
Tarrytown to address a group of Westchester business leaders in Rye Brook
yesterday - said he's not sure whether he will sue the Legislature for making
changes to the budget.

"Some of the revisions to my budget were done unconstitutionally," he said. "But
what we're going to do about that we haven't yet determined."

The governor has gone to the courts in the past to challenge whether lawmakers
can change appropriation bills. Pataki again vowed to veto "significant parts"
of the budget, which Bloomberg is backing because it brings $2.7 billion to the
city, though mostly through tax hikes. Pataki has until Wednesday to veto the
budget.

The mayor was in Albany yesterday to deliver the commencement address to 348
graduates at the College of St. Rose. It was the mayor's first commencement
speech - Bruno's chief spokeswoman, Marcia White, is a trustee of the college.

The billionaire mayor - who's trying to dig the city out of a $3.8 billion
budget hole - brushed off his critics in the budget battle. "You know what,
they'll never lay a glove on me," he said. "If I'm going to make the tough
choices, I have to have the strength to stand by them no matter what they say
and let the criticism roll off my back."

He also told the graduating class not to worry about salary in their first job.

"My advice when you're getting started, don't worry about your salary," he said.
"Your first job should be something that should teach, expand, humble and
exhilarate. Something that will help you acquire the basic skills that will
serve you throughout the rest of your life."

Bloomberg tried to reassure the graduates, even as the state faces massive
layoff and tax hikes.

"Given today's economic climate, I know a lot of you aren't sure what is going
to happen," he said. "The good news, though, is that unlike the graduates of the
dot-com era, you don't have the disadvantage of thinking there's something for
nothing. You are entering the job market with realistic expectations."

He also told them: "Get the best job you can find, convince yourself it's where
you want to be, even if it's not, because if you're not happy you won't do well
and then it will be the wrong job."

When asked if the mayor - whose approval rating has been falling in the polls -
was talking about his current job as mayor, Skyler said no.

Later in the speech, Bloomberg talked of being the "kid who came home, found his
floor covered in horse manure and got a big smile on his face because he knew
there was a pony in there someplace."

"Believe me, there are times at City Hall these days when it's hard to find that
pony in that manure," he said.

Pataki - who skipped out on his daughter's softball game in the fifth inning to
address a group of Westchester business leaders in Rye Brook yesterday -
reiterated his vow to veto "significant parts" of the budget deal cooked up by
Bloomberg, Silver and Bruno because it includes sales and income tax hikes.


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: THE HOLE TRUTH: Mayor Bloombert (right) and girlfriend Diana Taylor
grapple with the crucial work of the city at The Country Club of Troy yesterday.
Alan Solomon (Sports & Late City)
GRADUATING WITH HIZZONER: Mayor Bloomberg, in Albany yesterday to talk with
state pols about the Apple's needs, gets set to give the commencement address at
the College of St. Rose.  AP (Metro)

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               6 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 12, 2003, Sunday

...CUT WELFARE FOR POLS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 026

LENGTH: 461 words


The Rev. Joseph O'Hare's decision to step down as head of the city's Campaign
Finance Board presents a great opportunity - to scrap the board, and the whole
misguided program along with it.

After all, with taxes soaring and key services like cops, firefighters and
schools facing cuts, what could be more ripe for the budget axe than the city's
pointless pennies-for-pols program?

Bucks, actually - big bucks.

In 2001, this wildly generous program - which grants even fringe candidates as
much as four dollars for every buck raised privately - cost Gotham some $42
million, not counting administrative costs.

That's half the budget cut now being visited on the NYPD - a cut that may see
cop layoffs for the first time in a generation.

Instead, it underwrote the candidacies of a slew of political hopefuls too
unpopular to raise enough campaign money on their own.

Did it keep private money out of politics?

Nope.

None of the subsidized mayoral candidates came close to matching the war chest
of the eventual victor in the mayoral race, Michael Bloomberg. Hizzoner, recall,
shunned the program and, instead, put his own money (some $75 million) where his
mouth was.

And there's reason to believe privately financed candidates will continue to
outspend their publicly funded counterparts: Billionaire Tom Golisano, for
example, relieved himself of a similar $75 million last year in his bid for
governor. His loss proved that funding isn't everything: Intellectual coherence
counts, too.

But unless the city is ready to hand over its entire fisc (depleted as it may
be) to no-name politicians, there's little hope of ever creating a truly "level
playing field," the program's supposed goal.

Yes, some candidates might not have won if not for the handouts. But that did
not necessarily benefit New Yorkers.

Indeed, today the City Council is riddled with feckless amateurs who think their
publicly funded victories are mandates to change the world as they see fit.

Wacky council proposals - for diaper-changing stations, a beer tax, wage hikes
for the staff of city contractors and ever-higher taxes - are the norm. (No
doubt, the campaign-finance program only reinforced their love of spending other
people's money).

Meanwhile, the program showed little concern for what is, ostensibly, its raison
d'etre: to promote democracy.

Indeed, right after the 9/11 attacks - i.e., just when voters needed to hear
from candidates- O'Hare halted debates.

How?

By shutting off the money spigot.

All by himself.

How democratic was that?

Clearly, this program is foolhardy in flush times; in today's cash-strapped
climate, it's criminal to keep it going.

O'Hare's resignation creates the perfect chance to end it. And save millions.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               7 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            February 3, 2003, Monday

ON THE NEWSSTAND

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 854 words


Weekly news magazines walk a tightrope of timeliness when it comes to breaking
news, especially when a national tragedy occurs on or after their deadlines.
Amazingly, this week both Time and Newsweek rose to the challenge presented by
Saturday's Columbia tragedy. Sometimes, less is more. Time's simple coverline,
"The Columbia is lost," is just enough. And its inside coverage - personal
remembrances, a quick analysis of what really happened and in-flight photos - is
the right amount, for now. Companion pieces by Gregg Easterbrook and Hugh Sidey
offer arguments for why we should or should not continue space exploration.
Beyond the Columbia coverage, the looming war in the Mideast gets the bulk of
this mag's attention. Weapons inspectors, Saddam, preparing Basra for war - it's
all there, including pix of Bush with his family and advisers.

"Not again," reads Newsweek's coverline. This magazine's coverage of the
Columbia tragedy takes a comprehensive approach, with a more personal element.
From Evan Thomas's poignant scene-setter to the detailed biographies of each
astronaut, this is the mag to read. And two-time astronaut John Glenn's essay
gives us as much perspective as is possible one day after the tragedy. As for
the rest of the magazine, it's chock full of treats. Particularly riveting is
the story on where so-called intelligence sources get their information, and how
they can trust it.

As for the city weeklies, the New Yorker is certainly planning on a war; its
main story package carries the headline "Countdown." The most chilling piece
offers CIA director George Tenet's belief that no matter how much information is
uncovered, it will never be enough to prevent another attack. Jon Lee Anderson
reports on Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, an Iraqi leader living in exile in
Iran, who has his own ideas for overthrowing Saddam.

New York magazine, on the other hand, appears to be in denial. Is the cover
story - Ariel Levy's personal account of her drinking life - a cautionary tale?
A small-scale sociological study? A memoir? And, more importantly, why should we
care? (And, while we're asking questions: Why did the magazine feel compelled to
rip off its own "Power Girls" cover for the "Drinks in the city" image?) The
companion piece, "50 Best Bars," is a comprehensive and clever list. Elsewhere,
the bit on Adrian Nicole LeBlanc's 12-year publishing odyssey is an exercise in
exasperation.

Despite the gravity of the current political climate, the "think books" come up
short on what ought to be their strength: in-depth analysis. Here, for example,
are three items from February's Harper's index: Democrats received donations
totaling $1 million or more from 36 individuals last year, while Republicans got
such donations from just three individuals; three in 10 American males between
the ages of 18 and 34 shave off all or part of their chest hair; and at least
100,000 neutered pets worldwide have been implanted with fake testicles. Editor
Lewis Lapham writes of a "regime change," but don't be so quick to think he's
talking about Iraq. No, the liberal-leaning Lapham is concerned about the
privacy violations he expects under President Bush and U.S. Attorney General
John Ashcroft. It gets a bit tiresome, especially when Lapham suggests George
Washington would have built a bureaucracy had he foreseen the "rollback" of
democracy. The cover story, on the possibility of an asteroid destroying the
earth, is another gratuitous scare - since the chances are actually very, very
low.

Meanwhile, the Atlantic Monthly's cover story - "The Real State of the Union" -
is nothing more than a three-page rant that the annual presidential address is
too predictable and too full of meaningless applause lines. Readers will do well
to go straight to the special "sex" package. A report on sex in politics is far
from scandalous - Atlantic Monthly certainly hasn't come upon any new Monicas.
Instead, it discusses how politicians are tapping into a new wave of American
prudishness.

Sex week at Yale is a better read, mostly because of the style of the brilliant
author, Ron Rosenbaum, who does not seem to have an ounce of prudishness in him.
The story about sex-starved marriages is actually a review of several popular
books on that subject. If you don't have time to read the books, read this
review to keep up with cocktail-party chatter about how no one is "doing it"
anymore. Commentary also weighs in with a report on the American public's
renewed commitment to living a moral life - but Commentary uses that as a
jumping-off point for a fascinating exploration of why the Catholic church has
hit a low during a time when more people than ever say religion is important to
them. An article on Lahore explains how the Pakistani city has undergone
upheaval during recent years, as Muslim fundamentalists have taken control to
teach the hate-filled lessons that lead to terrorism against the West. New
Yorkers wondering why the public schools are still so bad must read Joseph
Epstein's tale of the year he spent teaching, and why his life will never be the
same.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               8 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 21, 2003, Friday

YANKS PUT HITCHCOCK ON DISPLAY

BYLINE: GEORGE KING

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 112

LENGTH: 393 words


CLEARWATER - The Yankees extended invitations to all major league teams to come
see Sterling Hitchcock pitch in a minor league game yesterday at the Paul Owens
Training Complex.

Every team received the memo via the MLB message wire and five sent reps to
watch the 31-year-old lefty hurl for Trenton (Double-A) against Reading on Mike
Schmidt Field.

The Rockies dropped in three scouts, including Jack Gillis, who signed Hitchcock
for the Yankees in 1989. Also representing the Rockies were Will George and Art
Pontarelli. Steve Payne from the Marlins was there as was Rick Williams from
Montreal. Vance Lovelace watched for the Dodgers. Ditto Tom Giordano from the
Rangers, who have insisted for two months they aren't interested in Hitchcock.

So, what did they see from a pitcher the Yankees are desperate to trade?

That depends on whom you talk to. Mel Stottlemyre and Hitchcock said the
52/3-inning effort in which he gave up nine hits and six runs went well. Several
of the scouts noted that Hitchcock struggled against left-handed hitters, didn't
show enough arm speed and couldn't throw his curve for strikes. They were
impressed by a splitter that had bite.

"My velocity is getting there," said Hitchcock, who topped out at 87 mph with
his fastball and 80 on his splitter. "I have more in the tank than that. The
more I pitch, the stronger I get."

If Hitchcock weren't owed $4.5 million in base salary and $2.5 million more in
signing bonuses and deferred money, he would have been dealt by now.

However, in this economic climate teams aren't clamoring for a pitcher even if
the Yankees swallow most of the money because they will want something
substantial back. That's what they pulled off Wednesday night when they acquired
Mark Phillips with Bubba Trammell from the Padres for Rondell White.

The Rockies remain slightly interested in Hitchcock but only if they can spin
him off to another club because they view him as a pitcher who can help in the
bullpen.

The Rockies could recruit the Expos and construct a three-way deal. GM Omar
Minaya speaks with Brian Cashman frequently and Hitchcock's name has surfaced,
but nothing is hot between the Yankees and Expos. That could change if the
Rockies, who are dangling lefty reliever Vic Darrensbourg as bait, can entice
the Expos.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HITCHCOCK Auditions for scouts.

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               9 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            March 27, 2003, Thursday

HILTON SIBS MAKE NEW SPLASH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 1624 words


THE wacky Hilton sisters, Nicky and Paris, have struck again.

Witnesses tell PAGE SIX that the sexy sibs, along with their best bud Casey
Johnson, got into a cocktail-tossing brawl with p.r. girl turned actress Sarah
Howard at L.A. hot spot Deluxe on Tuesday night - even though Paris insists
nothing happened.

"The three of them were sitting down and saw Sarah talking to John [Flanagan,
ex-owner of Tavern] and Jason [Shaw, Paris' ex-boyfriend] and they went
ballistic," one of our sources said. "They started screaming, 'You slut! You
whore! We know you slept with both of them!' "

The Hiltons and Johnson were soon throwing cigarettes and cocktails at Howard.
"They are so weird - one minute you think they are normal pretty girls and the
next they go crazy," said our witness. "Jason and John never touched Sarah."

Howard said: "Yes, they're crazy. Paris is jealous that her ex-boyfriend, Jason
Shaw, was talking to me. He apologized to me, and said: 'I am so sorry, she is
really crazy. I don't know what's wrong with her but she is not my girl!'

"Jason and I were merely saying hello - someone's paranoid. Further, what is a
20-year-old, Nicky, doing at an L.A. club where the [entrance] age is 21?"

But Paris denies the whole story. "That is so funny," she giggled. "Nothing
happened. I was sitting with my sister, Casey, and a girlfriend. I was drinking
water and nothing happened. I didn't even look at her. This is a sad attempt to
get in the paper."

It wasn't the first fracas that hot-tempered hotel heiress Paris has reportedly
gotten into. Two weeks ago, we told you about her brawl with Shannen Doherty.
Now, Star magazine reports Paris in a donnybrook with Lisa Marie Presley.

Friends had to break it up at Hollywood's Pig 'n' Whistle on March 14 and haul
Paris outside "as she was screaming, 'Lisa Marie just threw a drink over me
because she thinks I [bleeped] Nic Cage,' " Star reported.

Presley, who was married to Cage for nine months last year, had been hanging
with pals at the bar during Danny Masterson's birthday party, and freaked when
she saw Hilton.

According to Star, Presley threw vodka and orange juice all over the aspiring
actress, even though Hilton said she and Cage were "just friends."

Paris refused to comment on Presley, but a close pal told PAGE SIX: "Paris
didn't even know who [Presley] was and she just walked out. She never said
anything."

Moist melodies

IF you're planning to see any of Celine Dion's shows at the new 4,000-seat
Coliseum - built for her by Caesars Palace in Las Vegas - wear a bathing suit.
Attendees at sneak previews are complaining that the $95 million venue is
super-heated and as humid as a swamp. "Don't go after a big dinner, or you'll
fall asleep," one sweaty patron told the Las Vegas Review Journal. The diva has
ordered that the Coliseum be kept nice and steamy with special misting machines,
so that the dry desert climate doesn't give her "Vegas Throat."

DJs obsolete?

THE war has scuttled plans by AFTRA (American Federation of Television & Radio
Artists) for a rally today in Bryant Park. The union wants to protest plans by
Clear Channel Communications to replace deejays with "pre-recorded voice
tracks." "It is important that our members' attention be focused on world issues
at this time," Peter Fuster, head of AFTRA's New York local, explained the
cancellation. "Our members have historically been charged with the
responsibility of informing and calming the public in times of crisis - voice
tracking will leave the public unaware and unable to react to immediate news of
danger."

Sightings

SEN. John Kerry and his wife, Teresa Heinz, skiing Baldy Mountain in Sun Valley,
Idaho . . . TYRA Banks posing in the pool at the Delano in Miami for Elle
magazine . . . JULIANNE Moore, Dennis Hopper and Richard Donner celebrating a
friend's birthday at Morton's in Los Angeles . . . JIM Carrey and Kate Winslet
incorporating Ringling Bros. elephants into a scene for their "Eternal Sunshine
of the Spotless Mind," in which they try to rescue their failing relationship by
having their bad memories erased . . . TOM Clancy with his wife and another
couple at Brunelli talking about the war in Iraq . . . NASCAR ace Jeff Gordon
buying a dozen lap dances at Scores for himself and three gorgeous ladyfriends.

Bad morning at ABC

"GOOD Morning America" got off to a rough start the other day. In the first 15
minutes of Tuesday's show, there were "massive technical problems," sources
said. An annoyed ABC News chief, David Westin, called executive producer Shelley
Ross in the Times Square control room to complain "that the show wasn't what he
had come to expect" and "he wasn't at all happy." Ross, in a battle to win
ratings from archrival "Today," slammed down the phone and yelled at the 50 to
60 people in the room "that she wasn't happy to be taking so much heat from the
boss for all the problems." Ross told PAGE SIX: "David was right, and we made
the changes he called for. [Wednesday's] show was much smoother as a result."
ABC is having more than a few problems. When the war started last week, the
network came in last because the start of hostilities seemed to take it by
surprise. Anchor Peter Jennings had to be yanked from a dinner party while
several ABC affiliates were left with up to 15 seconds of dead air.

Weasel-watch

WASS, the actor who moonlights as the door god at Pangaea and Suite 16, won't
let in French tourists because of the anti-Americanism of the Chirac government.
And at Opia, where French expat owner Frederick Lesort is concerned by the
growing boycott against French products, waiters confided to one spy that some
customers send back their French wines, and one couple sent back their coffee
because it was made in a French coffemaker.

Enemy's pal

WHILE thousands of young Americans are risking their lives overseas, pampered
rock star Lenny Kravitz (above) has teamed up with Iraq's biggest pop singer to
whine that Saddam Hussein's dictatorship should be left intact. Kravitz and
Iraqi singer Kadim Al Sahir recorded "We Want Peace" in Miami last week. Too
lame for any record company to release, the number is available at
rockthevote.org.

Stone love

IN an almost incestuous liaison, Mick Jagger's son James, 17, has been secretly
dating Keith Richards' daughter, Alexandra, 16 (above). "They've known each
other most of their lives," a source told Us Weekly. But when the Rolling Stones
offspring recently visited their fathers on tour, they really hit it off. Sparks
were still flying when the teens posed together during a Tommy Hilfiger
fragrance shoot. "There was heavy flirtation, and [they] were pretty chummy."

Special ed

SUPERMODEL Gisele Bundchen (above) is being offered special training on how to
correctly wave the checkered flag at the Brazilian Grand Prix next month.
Organizers want the curvaceous catwalker to do better than last year's flag
waver, soccer legend Pele, who missed the winner crossing the finish line. Local
papers report that Bundchen would be given "intensive training" by race director
Carlos Montagner. Bundchen's mouthpiece says she's mulling the offer.

We hear . . . we hear . . . we hear . . .

THAT the BBC's mild-mannered reporter in Bahgdad, Rageh Omaar, has become the
Scud Stud of this war, just as CNN's leather-jacketed Arthur Kent was the
small-screen heartthrob in the last Gulf War . . . THAT Madison Avenue between
66th and 72nd streets will be closed tonight from 6 to 9 after Mayor Bloomberg's
sister Marjorie cuts the ribbon for "Italy Salutes New York," a festival
promoting Italian designers, complete with open bars and raffle prizes . . .
THAT Jared and Jamie Harris - in the first appearance since the death of their
father Richard Harris - will perform "Lies My Parents Told Me" tonight at the
Gershwin Hotel . . . THAT France's most popular television station, TF1, was
scheduled to show "Air Force One" Sunday night in prime time, but replaced it
with "some sappy Val Kilmer film," our man in Paris says. "The weasels didn't
want to show Harrison Ford as a U.S. president battling terrorists."

Mob grist

DETAILS is fast becoming the go-to magazine for producers looking to develop
mobster flicks. A piece in the latest issue, "The Mob Lawyer," was just nabbed
for a first-look deal with HBO. Editor-at-large Jeff Gordinier interviewed Chris
Warren, an ordinary defense attorney who became a household name overnight in
Philadelphia when he was selected to defend wiseguy Joey Merlino. Earlier this
week, producers Galt Niederhoffer and Celine Rattray acquired rights to Kevin
Gray's piece on Michael Pellegrino - the small-time Chicago hood who who duped
Simon & Schuster into a lucrative book deal by falsely claiming to be a blood
member of the Gambino family.

Reality bites

DON'T ask Cher anything about the war, because she isn't watching. When
"Entertainment Tonight" asked her if she, "like every other American," was
tuning into the news networks," Cher said: "I absolutely will not . . . I don't
like the way the news is portraying it. It's like they are portraying it like
the ultimate reality show. I just think it's cheap." Let's hope she's getting
her information from newspapers. Hey, Cher! The Post now publishes in
California.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -Gisele Bundchen.  Fernanda Calfat/WireImage.com
-Lenny Kravitz, Alexandra

-David Schwimmer wears shoes as he leaves the Barefoot Caf in Beverly Hills with
his lovely new friend who has yet to be identified. Does anyone recognize her?
London Entertainment/Splash News

-Kylie Minogue lunches with her new boyfriend, "Unfaithful" hunk Oliver
Martinez, at the Chateau Marmont in Hollywood. London Entertainment/Splash News

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               10 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 22, 2003, Thursday

GIANT JUBILATION - COACH FASSEL INTRODUCES 'LOST' SON

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 691 words


As the head coach of the Giants, Jim Fassel secured one of the most critical
victories of his career on Dec. 28, beating the arch-rival Eagles in overtime to
capture a playoff berth.

That night, Fassel and wife Kitty confronted a far more difficult challenge:
Telling their four children the tidy life they had been leading was a lie.

There was a fifth child born to Jim and Kitty, back when the two were
19-year-old, unmarried sweethearts attending different colleges in California.
That son was given up for adoption, kept secret, and 34 years later, the
startling news was revealed.

"It was shocking at first, now it's just awesome," said John Fassel, 29, who
grew up believing he was the Fassels' oldest child.

The desperation of frantic teenagers dealing with life issues has blossomed into
a heartwarming tale and recently sparked a grand reunion. After years of
searching, the Fassels on Mother's Day spoke to their firstborn son for the very
first time, learning they also were grandparents.

Three days later, the Fassels flew to Highlands Ranch, Colo., to meet the son
they gave up, and yesterday in a hotel in suburban New Jersey, the Fassel family
publicly introduced John Mathieson, who bears a striking resemblance to the
father and brothers he never knew.

"This has been an interesting couple of weeks for our family," understated
Fassel.

The newly assembled family was featured yesterday morning on the "Today" and has
been besieged by requests to tell and retell the dramatic events of the past few
weeks. It has been a whirlwind for Mathieson, who was born to Jim and Kitty
Fassel on April 5, 1969 and three days later was adopted by Tom and Dorothy
Mathieson.

"We had met, we had been together and we obviously had strong feelings for each
other," Fassel, 53, said of his relationship with Kitty.

"When she got pregnant our families talked to us about the fact we shouldn't be
forced to get married. We made a choice based on what our beliefs were."

Added Kitty, "The social climate of the '60s was totally different from today.
There was not an openness to accept what was out of the norm. There definitely
was a stigma. Our choice, first of all, was for life."

John grew up in Colorado, Florida, Georgia and Pittsburgh, finding himself drawn
to football and always wondering about his birth mother. He joined the Army,
married, raised four daughters and just recently settled in as a sales manager
at a Lexus dealership outside Denver.

When his second daughter was born with kidney problems, Mathieson stepped up his
efforts to learn of his heritage. Thanks to a change in Colorado adoption law,
Denver Catholic Charities was able to locate his birth parents.

"We've had a lot of fears through the years," said Fassel, the Giants coach
since 1997. "We've lived with this. Kitty handled the difficult part 34 years
ago. Our four children who've been with us, the way they've handled this, it's
been magnificent."

Learning that his father was an NFL head coach was another in a series of
surprises, "but who he is doesn't really matter to us," said Mathieson, an
admitted Denver Broncos fan.

"It's kind of cool and it's kind of neat, yeah, unfortunately you've got to
start changing some allegiances maybe, as far as what team you follow."

With that, Jim Fassel interrupted his oldest son. "None of that 'maybe' stuff,"
he said.

"I guess I'm going to be switching here real quick," laughed Mathieson.

The entire family plans to spend two weeks in June together for a vacation in
Montana.

"I think it's just awesome," said Jana, 24, the Fassels' lone daughter. "I had
three brothers for the longest time and just to add another one is great. I'm
like the luckiest sister in the world."


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -JOYOUS OCCASION: Mathieson introduces daughter Reagan to her proud
grandmom, Kitty, at the first family reunion in Colorado.
-ONE BIG HAPPY FAMILY: John Mathieson (center) yesterday stands with his newly
found birth parents, Jim and Kitty Fassel, and his siblings (rear from left)
Jana, John and Michael. At right is Mathieson's wife, Kristi.  Michael Sofronski

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               11 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 23, 2003, Friday

KLEIN AIDE RIPS SCHOOL SYSTEM

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE Education Reporter

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 397 words


The head of the city Department of Education's Leadership Academy admitted
yesterday he twice considered quitting his post because of frustration with a
system resistant to change.

"It's the hardest thing I've ever tried to do," said Robert Knowling, who
oversees the recruiting and training of principals, while addressing the Center
for Educational Innovation.

Knowling, a former top executive at US West and several other companies, was
hired by Schools Chancellor Joel Klein in January to help find strong principals
for each of the city's 1,200 schools.

He said the climate is certainly different from the private sector - where
people who perform are rewarded and those who fail are immediately shown the
door.

"I've twice come close to almost leaving," he said when asked about the civil
service and union rules governing the school system. "The perpetuation of
incompetence - I've never seen anything like it."

But Knowling stressed he's leading - not leaving - despite challenges from
critics "expert at hunkering down" to stymie reforms. He said there's a great
opportunity to better the schools with talented leaders.

He said about 250 newly appointed principals will open schools next September.

The Leadership Academy will train 90 candidates for principal over the next
year, working in the schools and learning from star principals.

The recruitment includes attracting educators from other states. Existing
principals will also be retrained.

Knowling said "15 percent" of the principals "should go home" because they're
not making the grade. Another 15 percent are exceptional and will be left alone.
The goal is to help the rest in the middle.

"I'm going to create some discomfort. Some of these people shouldn't be teaching
our children," he said.

Klein has said at least 50 principals will get the boot for academic failure
this year.

Meanwhile, Knowling vowed a shake-up by scrapping millions of dollars worth of
training contracts with outside institutions and groups because they've failed
to boost school performance.

"I'm going to make a lot of people upset in the vending community," he said.

Sy Fliegel, head of the Center for Educational Innovation, applauded Knowling's
candor.

"Creating the Leadership Academy is one of the smartest things Joel Klein has
done," he said.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROBERT KNOWLING Thought of quitting.

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               12 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 30, 2003, Monday

WHAT THE POLS HATH WROUGHT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 1100 words


State lawmakers smacked New York last month with new taxes, spending and debt -
and then went home as if all is fine.

It's not fine. Not by a long shot.

The damage caused by Albany's gross fecklessness this year will be significant.

It will go way beyond the financial pain in store for individual taxpayers.

It'll last for years.

And there's little hope for meaningful relief anytime soon.

Meanwhile, Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council worked feverishly to compound
the problems - successfully exacerbating the fiscal mess and likely dragging the
economy down further.

For weeks, Mayor Mike and council members raced each other to see who could
spend more, faster - even as taxes soar and monster cash shortfalls loom.

Then, last week, they shook hands on a deal that will hike spending by hundreds
of millions beyond the increases that had been planned only a month ago for the
budget year that begins tomorrow.

In the city, as statewide, financial hardship will likely deepen -
notwithstanding sudden projections of a current-year surplus. The coming woes
are the bitter fruit of both higher taxes and the job losses they spur.

But most frustrating about the tax-and-spend, business-as-usual politics is that
this year should have been different.

The city and state budget gaps had reached critical mass. The spending plans
were billions short.

Wild surges in planned outlays had become unaffordable, given the
lower-than-hoped-for revenues triggered by a national recession and fallout from
9/11.

Surely, at a time like this - and considering that New York spends more per
capita than nearly every other state - residents would have accepted budget
trims that plug the gaps and make the state economically healthier long-term.

Indeed, if ever there was a year for a fundamental reordering of New York's
fiscal house, this was it.

After all, if - in a climate as fiscally squeezed as this - pols can't tame the
workforce and pensions, curb Medicaid, trim overly generous and wasteful
government services, then when can they?

And yet - nothing.

Indeed, spending by Albany is set to outpace inflation yet again, growing 3.9
percent, or $3.5 billion, to a whopping $94.5 billion total, according to the
state.

With the city deal now sealed, Mayor Mike is poised to shell out nearly $2
billion more than last year, also a nearly 4 percent jump, based on May
projections by the city's Independent Budget Office.

Meanwhile, state and city sales taxes are up. State and city income tax rates
are up. Property taxes are through the roof.

Fees and fines are out of sight.

And school-tax hikes statewide are in the double digits, even though the state
hits were supposed to prevent that.

And still both City Hall and Albany face continued gaps - and continued spending
pressures that will only assure yet another "crisis" next year.

Consider a small sample of the missed opportunities - and coming troubles:

* Medicaid spending shot up an alarming 21 percent in just the past two years.

Yet rather than make any structural changes to rein in the program, officials
are running around begging more New Yorkers to join the Medicaid rolls - and
bloat spending even more.

* Taxpayers in New York were shouldering a combined state and local debt of
$9,357 per resident - fully 81 percent above the national average.

Yet this year state lawmakers mortgaged future tobacco-settlement payments (and,
if those dry up, future tax revenues) just to pay this year's bills.

* Pension benefits for government workers are also among the most generous in
the nation. And they'll add huge new budget pressures next year.

Here, Albany did nothing.

* New York's combined state and local tax burden is the highest in the nation.

Lawmakers tightened the screws further, raising taxes even more. (The hikes, by
the way, are enormous by historical standards - bigger even than those of the
Mario Cuomo budget crunches, during the early '90s.)

* Nor did Mayor Mike or the Albany pols win any relief from the unions in other
areas, such as work rules, that could have produced savings.

Rather, Gotham's teachers, after a fat raise last year, were allowed to resist
concessions. And health-care workers, who won billions from Gov. Pataki and
lawmakers a year ago, got bundles more.

These failures may well lead to still more taxes - and service cuts - down the
road. Worse is the potential harm to the economy: By hiking taxes as much as
they did, pols widened the tax advantage other states have over New York.

In the local region, Gotham's combined state-city income tax rate, 12.15
percent, is almost double that in the next closest state, New Jersey, where it's
6.4 percent.

The sales tax in the city, 8.625 percent, similarly eclipses top rates in
neighboring states - by as much 73 percent.

With firms struggling, the new taxes could be a final straw for a Gotham firm
deciding whether to expand, contract, move out - or shut down. Or for an
out-of-town firm, or a start-up, pondering whether to open in New York at all.

Taxes have long been a drag on Gotham's economy. In national downturns, New York
typically suffers more - and for longer - than the rest of the country.

That's what happened in the early '90s. In a nine-month stretch, the country
lost 1.3 million jobs, or 1.2 percent. But New York lost 280,000 jobs, or 3.4
percent - almost three times the national rate.

Then, as rest of the nation recovered almost all the jobs it lost, New York
continued to lose jobs, another 266,000, bringing the total loss to more than
half a million - a 6.6 percent contraction.

The state and city's uncertain fiscal future will also deter investment - even
as companies are already shunning New York out of post-9/11 terrorism fears.

No wonder a Milken Institute study released last Wednesday placed Gotham second
to last (ahead of only Detroit) in economic growth among the top 10
most-populous U.S. metropolitan areas.

For out-of-work New Yorkers, this is real pain - certainly at least as much as,
say, shutting zoos for a few hours, or asking under-used hospitals to downsize.

But the gainfully employed here may not notice - because it's hard to see, let
alone feel the pain, of missed opportunities and decisions that aren't made.

Still, one day New York may wake up a severely diminished place.

That'll be a pity. Especially since opportunities, like the current one, to make
structural repairs don't come often.

Maybe only formal bankruptcy, a la the '70s, will force reform in New York.

By then, it'll be too late.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               13 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             July 11, 2003, Friday

PLAY IT AGAIN, MA'AM

BYLINE: Michael Riedel

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 045

LENGTH: 638 words


BROADWAY producers still haven't gotten their fill of musical revivals.

Here's the latest on three in the works:

A couple of years ago, Encores!  presented a much-loved "Wonderful Town,"
starring Donna Murphy (wickedly funny) and Laura Benanti (charming as ever).

Directed and choreographed by Kathleen Marshall, the show - which has a score by
Leonard Bernstein, Betty Comden and Adolph Green - was going to transfer to
Broadway, but had to be shelved when Murphy became pregnant.

But now the actress is once again available, and there's a rush to get the show
up by spring.

This past week, producers Roger Berlind and Barry Weissler were hunting for
theaters - no easy task right now, since everything is booked, at least on
paper.

But theater is a fluid business, and theater owners are always looking for
backup shows. And so Weissler and Berlind are said to be eyeing the Al
Hirschfeld (formerly the Martin Beck) - which "Man of La Mancha" may well vacate
by the end of the year - and the Broadway.

Officially, the Broadway is home to "Bombay Dreams," but there are rumblings
that the show, a London import, may not be ready in time for a spring opening.

"Bombay Dreams" will cost an astounding $14 million (that's a lot of money to
raise in this economic climate); Tom Meehan only just turned in a revised book;
there may be changes in the design team; and Andrew Lloyd Webber, who produced
the show in London and is licensing it here, is said to be more caught up on his
own musical - an adaptation of "The Woman in White."

(A staged reading of the first act of "The Woman in White" will be the highlight
of Lloyd Webber's annual Sydmonton Festival this weekend.)

My hunch: "Wonderful Town" slips in under the wire this spring and we'll get a
nice horse race between it and "Fiddler on the Roof" at the Tonys.

A revival I was looking forward to - "Mame," directed by Tommy Tune, well
overdue for a non-white hat, tie and tails comeback - has been put on hold for
at least a year.

Christine Baranski, who was to have played Mame, got a sitcom instead. She still
wants to do the show (with Bebe Neuwirth as Vera and Faith Prince as Agnes
Gooch) but now won't be available until 2005.

That seems fine with Tune and "Mame" composer Jerry Herman, since it frees them
to concentrate on Herman's new show, "Miss Spectacular," for its Las Vegas
premiere next year.

As for revival No. 3 - that is, "Sweet Charity" - its fate will be determined
next Tuesday, when Fran and Barry Weissler finally get a look at a workshop
production.

As Cindy Adams (taking mercilessly unfair advantage of my absence last week) was
the first to report, Marisa Tomei was replaced during the workshop by Jane
Krakowski.

I hear Krakowski is terrific, and works a lot faster than Marisa
"Why-is-my-character-moving-to-the-left-on-this-line?" Tomei.

The real question is whether the obscure English director the Weisslers hired,
one Tim Sheader, is up to the job.

If he isn't, "Sweet Charity" will go the way of "The Miracle Worker," the last
Weissler revival staged by an obscure English director.

FROM July 16 through 28, Sh-K-Boom Records and the Zipper Theater on West 37th
Street will present a series of rock concerts by some of Broadway's brightest
young(ish) talents.

Among those scheduled to perform are Alice Ripley, Sherie Rene Scott, Adam
Pascal, Adam Rapp and Michael Cerveris.

Yes, they're all musical theater kids, but they also write pop and rock songs,
and this series will showcase that aspect of their musical talents.

Tickets are only $15.

Call (646) 205-2246 for the schedule.

I'll be there, and I'm no rock 'n' roller.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jane Krakowski has taken over the lead in a workshop production of
"Sweet Charity." N.Y. POST: JENNIFER WEISBORD

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               14 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             July 25, 2003, Friday

DID 'RESTAURANT' FAKE SCENE?

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 1559 words


ANGRY restaurateur John McDonald claims Rocco DiSpirito and Jeffrey Chodorow
faked a dramatic scene in ABC's "The Restaurant," which debuted Sunday and left
viewers with the impression that McDonald's Canteen restaurant is closed.

And McDonald is suing DiSpirito and Chodorow, claiming they tried to interfere
with his negotiations to buy out his partner in Canteen, chef Matthew Kenney.

"John was called by Jeffrey months ago when the show, 'The Restaurant,' was
still in development," McDonald's rep, Paul Wilmot, said.

"Jeffrey wanted to buy Canteen and use it for Rocco's new restaurant. Rocco even
said on air it was the best space in New York. Rocco also wanted it very badly.

"John immediately said he was not interested [in selling] and that he was in the
process of buying out Matthew Kenney and running it alone."

McDonald's ire was raised when DiSpirito showed up with a camera crew and
started pleading through the door of Canteen, "John, can't we just talk? Can't
we just work this out, man? Can't we be partners?"

"Rocco knew at all times he would never get that space," Wilmot continued. "He
did it for fake drama, to fool the public. He was grandstanding."

DiSpirito and Chodorow then found out Canteen was in bankruptcy court - a result
of the fight between Kenney and McDonald - and tried in vain to buy the Soho
eatery out from under McDonald via a petition to the bankruptcy judge.

As Chodorow, in a long black trench coat, explained on camera to DiSpirito how
futile their effort to get the Canteen space had become, a process server handed
him McDonald's lawsuit.

Another scene showed DiSpirito looking longingly in the eatery's darkened
windows, making the place look abandoned. But the scene was shot at 9 a.m.

Mark Burnett, the producer of the show, said: "Nothing was faked. We were really
going to buy Canteen. Rocco was certain he would get it, and was set on it. The
process held up production for months."

But Wilmot maintained: "Listen, everyone in New York knows what Canteen looks
like. This is bad for business because it was portrayed as being closed when
that is not the case. Canteen is open and thriving. The scene outside the
restaurant was staged."

Paula's next

PAULA Jones is pregnant. Bill Clinton's Arkansas nemesis revealed her
infanticipation yesterday in Manhattan Federal court, where she's suing
eccentric developer Abe Hirschfeld for the $1 million he promised her if she'd
settle her sexual harassment suit with Clinton. She settled, but never got the
$1 million. Jones' lawyer, Thomas Cohen, told Judge Peter Leisure his client is
hoping the trial will take place before she gives birth in November. The baby
would be Jones' third, but her first by new hubby and former neighbor Steven
Mark McFadden.

Sightings

SUMNER Redstone vacating a table at Rao's to make way for Msnbc's Jerry Nachman
and Fox News Channel's John Gibson, who was celebrating his birthday. Fox News
colleague Bill McCuddy, who was across the room with steel magnate Charlie
Cumella, sent Gibson - no, not a Gibson - a Shirley Temple . . . RICHARD
Jefferson of the N.J. Nets (semi-incognito with his cap pulled down) and Luke
(son of Bill) Walton (in his Univ. of Arizona T-shirt) at the Penthouse
Executive Club getting table dances.

We hear . . .

THAT after 17 years of marriage, hotelier Andre Balazs and Ford Models chairman
Katie Ford have mutually agreed to separate. The power couple, in Europe with
their two daughters, are totally supportive and remain friends . . . THAT men's
fashion guru Joseph Abboud throws out the first pitch tonight for the
Yankees/Red Sox game at Fenway Park. Among those cheering him on will be Sox
superstar Nomar Garciaparra and fiancee/soccer great Mia Hamm . . . THAT Robert
Altman is about to make his debut on Broadway by directing a new version of "Pal
Joey" he is writing himself.

Sax man snares Geraldo's ex

CLARENCE Clemons, the saxophone maestro who has played with Bruce Springsteen's
E Street Band for many years, is madly in love with Geraldo Rivera's ex-wife,
C.C. Dyer. The two met years ago when Geraldo and C.C. were neighbors of
Springsteen and his wife, Patti Scialfa, in New Jersey. Their kids went to the
same school. When C.C. went on a tour of Scandinavia with the band in June,
sparks flew. "He's divorced. She's divorced. She's crazy about him," a friend
said. Flame-haired C.C., who was an ABC News producer when she met Rivera, has
two daughters, ages 8 and 10, by the Fox News Channel correspondent. Clemons,
who is 6-foot-5 and known as The Big Man, has four sons. Geraldo has also found
love. He's marrying Erica Levy Aug. 10 at Central Synagogue, cutting the cake at
the Four Seasons, and then honeymooning on the French Riviera. Not much is known
about beautiful Levy, 28. But friends describe her as unaffected, down-to-earth,
and a healthy influence on the mercurial Rivera.

Great debates

THE latest issue of revitalized BlackBook magazine is bound to start some
arguments. For starters, it prints a letter pop star Pink wrote to Vogue editrix
Anna Wintour asking her to stop wearing fur. Legendary ad man George Lois
apologizes for his part in the decline of Western civilization - creating the "I
want my MTV" campaign. Radio-talker Curtis Sliwa blasts the Democrats as
"apologists for criminals and appeasers to our enemies." And Kola Boof, Osama
bin Laden's former mistress, attacks Whoopi Goldberg and Morgan Freeman for
saying they aren't Africans. Hmmm . . . last we checked, both actors were
Americans.

Fake 'em out

DON'T believe everything you read about Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck's
impending wedding. During the junket for their misguided flick "Gigli," Affleck
(above) decided to have some fun with journalists who insisted on asking him
about the nuptials. "It will be on Oct. 5 in Kauai," he told a Swiss Magazine.
"It's in South America," he told another Euro junketeer. "I heard seven
different versions of where and when the wedding is going to be come out of
Ben's mouth," Affleck's rep, Ken Sunshine, laughed. "Kauai at least has the
warmest climate."

Pants down

YUL Vazquez (above), who is in "Bad Boys II," told a funny story to friends at
the party launching P. Diddy's soundtrack album. He was shooting a scene for
which everyone had to change pants, so he went off to the trailer. When he came
back everyone asked why he'd gone to the trailer, since they all changed on the
spot. Vazquez had to admit he doesn't wear underpants. "Ever?" his female
companion asked? "Ever," he replied. "Remind me never to borrow pants from you,"
she cracked.

Lowe loses cover to red-hot Kutcher

ROB Lowe has a new show that will air on NBC, "The Lion's Den," but he still
isn't as hot as Demi Moore's boyfriend Ashton Kutcher. Spies inside the
Fairchild publishing empire told PAGE SIX: "The September cover of Details was
supposed to be Rob Lowe. But then [Details editor-in-chief] Dan Peres realized
what Us Weekly readers have long known - that Ashton Kutcher sells magazines. So
they ditched Rob for Ashton." Unfortunately, Kutcher wasn't in the mood to
participate and refused to cooperate with a photo shoot or interview. "They
ended up using the outtakes of a photo shoot that Tom Monroe shot for the Face
magazine in Britain," we're told. "Ashton is almost unrecognizable - he is all
dirty and dressed like a coal miner." Peres said: "Any editor would be foolish
not to want Ashton on their cover because of the heat he has right now. Rob Lowe
is one of the most sellable celebrities and he wasn't supposed to be on the
September cover. We want to wait to see how his television show does." Lowe's
rep said, "Rob's cover is for sweeps period in the spring." Kutcher's rep didn't
return calls.

Kobe beef

GONZO journalist Hun-ter S. Thompson says the Kobe Bryant scandal could be
bigger than O.J. Simpson. "This is not about rape at all," Thompson, who just
had vertebrae replacement surgery at the same clinic in Vail where Bryant was
being treated, rants in his espn.com column. "It is about money, pure money and
nothing else. Nobody is going to jail in this case, but some people are going to
pay . . . You thought O.J. was bad? Wait until we get a taste of the K.B.
scandal. It will be like a feeding frenzy and a long parade of cannibals."
Thompson goes on to attack George W. Bush, a "goofy child president . . .
demonstrably a fool and a failure" and "that stupid, fraudulent chickenbleep war
in Iraq."

Just asking

WHICH Hollywood leading man who has just signed a big shampoo advertising
contract is going to shock the cosmetic giant's executives when they discover he
secretly wears a toupee? . . . WHICH movie star was sucking face with a French
Canadian chick at a nightclub in Montreal, where he's filming? Maybe his
beautiful, talented wife should finally pay him a conjugal visit.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -Madonna, in the passenger seat, batted her eyes and tried to
sweet-talk an LAPD officer out of giving her assistant a moving violation.  ©
Ramey Photos
-Ben Affleck, Yul Vasquez

-Elle MacPherson goes incognito while on a shopping spree in the tony Notting
Hill section of London.  Big Pictures USA (m, s)

-Sly Stallone, in town to plug "Spy Kids 3-D," hooks up with brother Frank in
Manhattan last night. See review, Page 48. Ronald Asadorian/Splash (lcf)

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               15 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 5, 2003, Tuesday

INTEREST-RATE MOVES WARN THE ECONOMY MAY BE BROKEN

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 031

LENGTH: 632 words


THE U.S. economy may be broken.

That's different from saying that the economy is - or isn't - improving. It is
like saying it can't improve. And the idea that the nation's business cycle is
"broken" is a lot more troubling than what you are hearing economists and
politicians arguing about these days.

First, let me say that I hope I'm wrong about this. But the way in which
interest rates have behaved over the past month or so should be causing serious
concern that the country has gotten itself into a fix that can't be remedied in
any conventional way.

Since the Federal Reserve reduced interest rates in early June, the actual rates
that people and businesses have to pay to borrow money have soared like a
rocket. The interest rate on 30-year government bonds - which are no longer
issued by Washington but still trade - has risen from around 4.20 percent to
about 5.50 percent.

That has caused 30-year mortgages, for instance, to rise from an average in the
very low 5 percent area to over 6 percent.

Why has this happened? That's a good question, and one for which nobody has an
answer.

One thing that my sources and I have been worrying about is that foreigners, for
a number of reasons, would suddenly find U.S. markets unattractive. If they
pulled their money out, rates would automatically rise.

Or rates could be rising because investors think the U.S. Federal Reserve is
being irresponsible in its handling of monetary policy. Certainly the federal
budget deficit is already high enough to frighten many investors.

All those possibilities are worrisome. But something else is even more tricky:
Interest rates could be rising because of the perception that the economy is
improving.

That would be a normal reaction. What isn't normal is that rates would climb by
such large amounts in response to such a slight economic improvement.

Here's the problem: The small whiffs of good news on the economy could be
stopped dead by the higher rates. In fact, if rates continue to rise like they
have been the Federal Reserve might actually be forced to raise interest rates
before long.

But the present situation could get even worse than that.

What if rates are rising and the economy really isn't improving? Then you have
what I'd call a lose/lose situation - a glass that's three-quarters empty.

So, is the economy improving? Some of the government's statistics say it is. But
those stats could be misleading.

Last Friday, for instance, Washington reported that the economy shed 44,000 jobs
in July. The employment situation was so bad, in fact, that people stopped
looking for work and a statistical fluke caused the unemployment rate to drop.

That's bad enough.

But looking behind the numbers shows an even worse situation. After revisions,
there were actually 92,000 fewer jobs available in the economy in July - not
simply the 44,000 lost. That's a massive number of missing jobs in just one
month.

The optimists look at the nation's gross domestic product, which grew at a
reasonable 2.4 percent in the second quarter.

But it didn't really.

Nobody was expecting that 2.4 percent, and for good reason. The government
achieved that surprising figure by sharply reducing the amount of inflation it
saw in the quarter.

Did you see inflation go down from an annual rate of 2.4 percent to just 1
percent, like Washington did? Without that change, the GDP would have been a
paltry 1 percent annual growth. And that growth includes the massive military
spending increase related to the war in Iraq.

Such a miserable expansion shouldn't be sending interest rates to the moon. But
it certainly would explain the disappointing figures coming out of the job
market and would explain the declining confidence of consumers.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               16 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 26, 2003, Tuesday

WHY THE ECONOMY MAY APPEAR WEAKER

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 036

LENGTH: 645 words


THE U.S. economy could begin to look weaker when September's numbers start
coming out. But it will probably only be mired in the same extremely slow,
no-jobs growth trend that has existed for nearly three years.

And when this next apparent slowdown comes you can blame the attacks on the
World Trade Center in September 2001 for the statistical flukes that will
disturb everyone from consumers to the politicians to the sharks on Wall Street.

Screeech!!

That's my fingernails on the blackboard to get your attention. This isn't going
to be an easy column either to write or to understand so pay attention. Get a
cup of coffee if it'll help.

First, you have to understand that the government's computers try to normalize
anything that's a seasonal quirk. For instance, the economy changes during the
summer months because teachers leave the work force and students enter it, so
the computers adjust for expectations.

This column floated the theory last September that seasonal adjustments in
Washington's calculations would be thrown off by the terrorist attack that
occurred the previous year.

And that is exactly what seems to have happened.

I theorized in this column back on Sept. 3, 2002 that because business activity
had slowed down so badly immediately after the terrorists attacked, the
government's computers would be confused on the first anniversary.

The seasonal adjustment programs used by the computers would think that the slow
business activity of September and October of 2001 was normal. And in September
and October 2002, I hypothesized, the computers would be expecting weakness like
the year before.

But September and October of '02 were more normal, with the American economy
having mostly recovered from the effects of terrorism with the help of very low
interest rates.

Still, the computers were expecting those two months to be as bad as the
previous year.

But the 2002 period beat the computers' lowered expectations. So the machines
made seasonal adjustments that caused the September/October '02 period to look
better than it actually was.

Indeed, the numbers last fall caused the experts - and the computers - to think
that the recovery was under way when in fact it was a statistical illusion.

And the pros were surprised by what happened next.

The interest-rate-driven stimulus in late 2001 - when car makers and everyone
else offered 0 percent loans - made the November and December numbers abnormally
robust. So when the computers in 2002 had to compare November-December business
conditions with those of 2001, they thought the economy was actually weaker than
it was.

Still with me? Now for the important part - what happens next.

Because the computers run by government economic agencies believed the economy
in September and even October of 2002 was particularly brisk - when compared to
the terrorist-plagued previous year - the machines could interpret this year's
numbers as weak.

In other words, the computers will be expecting more than the season can
produce. Will the economy really be weak?

It could be. Retail sales have been good, but stores are only selling stuff
because they are discounting. And higher interest rates as well as rising energy
prices, especially gasoline, might cause the economy to swoon.

But any statistical downturn over the next two months could just as easily be
the result of a misinterpretation of seasonal adjustments by the government's
computers.

So what happens if I am correct and the economic numbers start to look weak?

Interest rates should come down, but so will stock prices. Wall Street is once
again getting irrationally exuberant about the prospects for corporate profits
at a time when companies will be hurt by the same things you and I are - the
rise these past two months in interest rates and the more recent jump in fuel
costs.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               17 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           August 28, 2003, Thursday

HISTORY'S SWITCH

BYLINE: Robert A. George

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 674 words


Every success contains within itself the seeds of its own downfall.

Forty years ago today, Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his most memorable
speech and, in doing so, reached the apex of American oratory and social
protest.

But even as civil rights made it to the top of the national agenda, Republicans
and Democrats stopped battling for the black vote, thus diminishing
African-Americans' political influence.

In his 1960 presidential race with Sen. John F. Kennedy, Vice President Richard
Nixon actually ran as a racial liberal. Nixon was a NAACP member, and many
blacks looked favorably on the Eisenhower administration for sending in federal
troops to Little Rock, Ark., to enforce desegregation.

But Kennedy scored a coup in mid-October: King was arrested in Georgia and
sentenced to four months hard labor on a parole violation. JFK called Corretta
Scott King to offer comfort, while brother Robert Kennedy called the judge in
Georgia to agitate for King's release.

Martin Luther King Sr. switched his support from Nixon to Kennedy. But his more
famous son refrained.

As King's autobiography states, "I ncver came out with an endorsement. My father
did, but I never made one. I took this position in order to maintain a
nonpartisan posture, which I have followed all along in order to be able to look
objectively at both parties at all times."

In the end, Nixon still managed to get one-third of the black vote. (Eisenhower
had gotten close to 40 percent in 1956). The two parties were still fighting for
the black vote, as King wanted.

Ironically, the "I have a dream" speech set off a series of events that would
change that.

Tested in several other cities in the months before the August march on
Washington, the speech appealled to an America beyond King's southern origins,
reminding all Americans of their shared values and beliefs in liberty. Its
success made King a truly national, rather than a regional, figure, and helped
build the political climate that saw the 1964 Civil Rights Act pass with strong
support from both parties.

But Sen. Barry Goldwater (R-Ariz.) strongly opposed the act on states'-rights
grounds (though later giving it grudging support). And he wound up the 1964 GOP
nominee. King's response to Goldwater's nomination could not have been more
different than his nuanced position in the previous election:

"While not himself a racist, Mr. Goldwater articulated a philosophy which gave
aid and comfort to the racist . . . . I had no alternative but to urge every
Negro and white person of goodwill to vote against Mr. Goldwater and to withdraw
support from any Republican candidate that did not publicly disassociate himself
from Sen. Goldwater and his philosophy."

This was effectively the end of King - and, arguably, the entire civil-rights
movement - as neutral brokers in partisan politics.

The GOP wound up courting Southern white votes: "Hunting where the ducks are,"
Goldwater called it - though the strategy won him all of six states, total, that
year (and just 6 percent of the black vote).

The tragedy is that Goldwater wasn't a racist - but rather a libertarian. He
should have been able to see the legitimate argument in favor of guaranteeing
voting rights for citizens in the South. But the die was cast, and the Nixon '68
campaign did not reverse the new trend.

Today, the once-solid Democratic South is now solidly Republican. And the
civil-rights movement is merely a subsidiary of the Democratic Party.

Forty years after the speech at the Lincoln Memorial - a monument to a man
admired by both blacks and Republicans - it behooves both the civil-rights
movement and the Republican Party to look at King's speech.

King recognized that, despite its varied geographic, racial and class
differences, America can only move forward when it recognizes its shared values
and shared interests. Black America and the Republican Party separated soon
after that speech.

Can they ever see mutual interests again?


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Goldwater: Gave up on black vote.

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               18 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 14, 2003, Sunday

NEW YORK'S NEW BEGGARS ; CELL-PHONE HOMELESS ON STREETS BY CHOICE

BYLINE: PHILIP RECCHIA

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 1317 words


THEY have cell phones. They've got e-mail. They shop free at Old Navy,
McDonald's and Virgin record stores. They have free access to acupuncture
treatments, yoga classes and massage therapy.

Welcome to the coddled lifestyles of New York's new "homeless" - young kids who,
besides getting pampered by charities, rake in hundreds of dollars a week
begging on the street.

Cell-phone toting Dawn, who like most interviewed for this story did not wish
her full name revealed, is one of their number, and she's staked out a corner at
Fifth Avenue and 14th Street as her begging spot.

A sign at her feet reads, "Hungry, broke and miserable . . . All I want is a
warm, safe place to stay until I . . . get back home . . . or back on my feet
here."

Dawn told The Post she averages $40 a day panhandling - what the new homeless
called "spanging" - but recently a stockbroker handed her $600 cash, saying he'd
once been in similar straits.

"I don't spend my money on drugs, so I'm able to afford a cell phone, buy
clothes and go to the movies once in a while," she said. "Part of the reason I'm
living like this is to get away from the material life."

Each summer, hundreds of the new homeless arrive from as far away as Texas and
California, looking for jobs, handouts and companionship. Then they retreat to
warmer climates around this time of year, when the first chills set in.

Peaceful, articulate and well-read, they're more likely to resemble Grateful
Dead groupies than the freight-train-hopping hobos of yore.

And while these predominately white, liberally pierced and tattooed kids - one
of whom told The Post his stepfather is a Wall Street bond salesman - are all,
as Dawn has it, getting "away from material life" and sleeping on the streets,
they're often still first in line for charity handouts.

The social service of choice for the new homeless these days is a "drop-in
center" called Streetwork, a few blocks from the Manhattan Bridge.

It was set up two years ago by homeless youth agency Safe Horizon, after
then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani's efforts to clean up Times Square pushed many homeless
out of the area.

"These kids tells us, 'This is the life I've chosen,' but in reality they've run
away from home because they couldn't conform to Middle America life," said David
Nish, associate vice president of Streetwork.

IN addition to offering basics like showers and health counseling, the nonprofit
program holds focus groups to help ensure the homeless kids are treated like
average American youth, rather than feeling institutionalized.

"If they like a certain brand of clothing or a certain type of food or music, we
do our best to provide it," said Nish.

Almost all of the new homeless wear boxer shorts, so the center gives those out
instead of briefs.

George, a 22-year-old squatter from Lexington, Ky., told The Post that last
Christmas Streetwork gave him $20 gift certificates to Old Navy and McDonald's,
in exchange for taking a survey about drug use.

But while the city cares, many of the city workers who deal with the great
unwashed believe the coddling should end.

"These kids could work if they wanted - sweeping up, washing dishes or
whatever," said a police lieutenant who broke up a group of about 30 gutter
punks in Tompkins Square Park last week after four of them staged a concert
without a permit.

"But they get free food and clothes all around this area, so they don't have to
do anything," the lieutenant said. "I've never heard any of them talk about a
job."

A supervisor at East River Park, where many of the new homeless sleep, also has
little sympathy for his guests.

He told The Post, "They come over here - sometimes in cabs - and do drugs every
night. I'd say that 98 percent of them are on heroin. They leave so many needles
around that we've had to hire people just to pick them up."

Karen, a 21-year-old gutter punk from Silverthorn, Colo., takes umbrage at the
allegation she and her pals are drug addicts.

"That's bulls- - -," she said. "I've done some hard drugs, like a lot of us
around here. But not any more frequently than anyone else our age in New York."
She said she's been trying to get a job as a janitor all summer, but no one
would even talk to her.

"People here suck," Karen added before crawling back into her sleeping bag and
dozing off under the late-summer sun.

THE consolation for Karen and the rest of the new homeless who find our surly
city tough going is that a remedy is close at hand, in the form of electronic
communication.

Dawn, 21, who comes from San Francisco, says she keeps in touch with her friends
by phone and e-mail.

"I buy prepaid phone cards so I can talk to my friends in California and so my
boyfriend can find me around here during the day," she said, pulling a
squeaky-clean cell phone out from its hiding place in the base of a street
lamppost.

She sends e-mails from PCs at Streetwork and public libraries, where she also
charges her cell phone.

Dawn left home when she was 13 because her parents were drug addicts. She hasn't
spoken to them since.

After dropping out of college, she took an office job, which proved "too rigid
and stressful," so she hit the road.

Earlier this, year she squatted in an abandoned building in the Red Hook section
of Brooklyn for several months, but it was condemned. Now she sleeps on the
streets around NYU.

She's thinking of getting a job as a bike messenger and hopes to be an English
teacher some day. But she also says she's in no huge rush to get a job.

Dawn's boyfriend, 21-year-old Tom, is another of the new homeless. He met Dawn
in Los Angeles and comes from a totally different family background to her.

The oldest of four children, he grew up on a 200-year-old Victorian estate in
Chatham, N.J. and his stepfather sells municipal bonds at HSBC Bank on Wall
Street.

Tom left home five years ago after getting kicked out of school for drinking and
playing hooky. He remains on speaking terms with his parents, but they no longer
give him money.

While passing through Minneapolis last year, he spent the night in jail for
giving police a false name. Otherwise, he said, he has no criminal record.

The last job he had was working construction in New Jersey 18 months ago.

Recently, he'd planned to apply to a Starbucks in Manhattan but was sick the day
of his interview. He did manage to turn up when the drop-in center distributed
some free Virgin records vouchers last Christmas.

Like his girlfriend, he spanges around NYU, though makes only about half as much
as she does.

The couple is thinking about going to Philadelphia this fall to find another
squat.

"There are 31,000 abandoned buildings down there," Dawn said. "Ideally, we'll be
able to live for free."

"I don't find joy in a 9-to-5 gig," Tom told The Post. "I'm kind of happy with
the way things are now. And if it ever gets to the point where I'm not, I'll
change my life."

The New Homeless

Ages: 18-28 years old

Politics: anti-materialism, anarchism.

Identifiers: pet dogs, body piercings, tattoos

Origins: West Coast, Southwest and Middle America

Favorite cities: New York, San Francisco, Tucson, Philadelphia

Favorite hangouts: Tompkins Square Park, East River Park

Favorite reading: Thomas Pynchon, Jack Kerouac, Paul Monette

Favorite designer: And OneMusic: punk rock, hip-hop

Earnings: $20-40 a day panhandling

Support system: Streetwork drop-in center, Lower East Side

Other names: "crusty punks," "squatter kids"


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: STREET SCENE: A young woman named Dawn (left), accompanied by a lazy
pooch (below) at 14th Street and Fifth Avenue, dials up pals while her sign
(above) does the panhandling work, asking for donations.  Peter Walden Sr.
NETWORKING: Homeless "Tom," 20, chats on his cell phone with a friend in
Philadelphia, another city with ample squat opportunities.Linda Obuchoska

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               19 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                         September 17, 2003, Wednesday

TV STATIONS SET TO GUZZLE LIQUOR COMPANY AD $$

BYLINE: STEPHEN LYNCH

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 034

LENGTH: 236 words


After weathering a high-profile backlash, hard-liquor companies are quietly
pouring more money into television advertising.

Spirit brands like Smirnoff and Bacardi are expected to drop $20 million on
commercials this year, twice what they spent last year, according to market
researcher Impact Databank.

All of these ads are bought through local affiliates or cable networks, Impact
added, to avoid the public outcry in early 2002 that followed an NBC
announcement that it would carry liquor ads from British company Diageo.

The network would have been the first to break a voluntary ban that had existed
for decades, but calls from members of Congress and Mothers Against Drunk
Driving torpedoed the deal.

Diageo, whose brands include Jose Cuervo and Captain Morgan, turned its
attentions to other buyers, however. It plans to unveil a $10 million campaign
for Smirnoff next month.

"The climate has changed, and possibly so has the attitude of consumers," said
Scott Reid, vice president and global creative director for Finlandia vodka,
which plans to launch its first television campaign Sept. 30.

"There's been a lot of publicity about the benefits of moderate alcohol
consumption, and that spirits can be part of a healthy lifestyle."

The biggest change, however, is in network revenue. Faced with soft advertising
sales, some cable channels are eager for spirits ads, Reid said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               20 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           October 25, 2003, Saturday

6-0 VIKES NO MINNY TEST ; JINTS GET READY FOR RAUCOUS RECEPTION

BYLINE: PAUL SCHWARTZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 076

LENGTH: 607 words


Get the feeling Vikings coach Mike Tice is tired of fielding questions wondering
how his team is handling a sensational start?

"Oh, it has gone to our heads; we are going to be as flat as hell this week,"
Tice said.

That would be good news for the Giants, if only Tice was even the slightest bit
serious.

"I think," he added, "the guys understand the reason we've gotten to 6-0 is
because we've worked extremely hard."

If the Vikings are on their game tomorrow inside the ear-rattling Metrodome, the
chance of an upset by the Giants is not good. If, as Jim Fassel has stated, it's
been a Murphy's Law season for the Giants, then it's been a season of
serendipity for the Vikings, who are riding an NFL-high nine-game winning streak
dating back to last year.

Whatever can go right has gone right for the Vikes, the only unbeaten team in
the NFC. It's not news that even without speed runner Michael Bennett, who has
not played yet this season because of a foot injury, Minnesota's offense has
hummed along, with Daunte Culpepper lobbing passes to Randy Moss. It is news
that thus far, the Vikes actually can stop someone.

When they met and devastated the Vikes 41-0 in the 2000 NFC Championship Game,
the Giants were frothing at the mouth at the thought of throwing on the inept
Minnesota secondary. It's been a lingering problem, but not any longer. Big
leads and a heavy pass rush have combined to cause mayhem, as the Vikings lead
the league with 16 interceptions. Free safety Brian Russell is the first player
in NFL history to start a season with interceptions in six straight games.

Of course, the Vikings remain a team known for its offense and this machine has
hummed along with a numbing precision. Culpepper has been the best quarterback
in the league, with seven touchdown passes and no interceptions. When Culpepper
missed two games with a back injury, all Gus Frerotte did was step in and set a
franchise record with a 157.2 rating in a victory over the 49ers.

Then there's Moss. The Giants know how much of an unstoppable weapon he can be
and also have witnessed him quit on the field, as he did in the 2000 title game.
This year's Moss is inspired and wreaking havoc. His incredible lateral to Moe
Williams on a 59-yard hook-and-ladder pass play for a touchdown last week
against the Broncos was not only highlight-film material but also proof that
everything the Vikings touch turns to gold.

"I think we have a shot of being great," defensive tackle Chris Hovan said, "but
only [the coming] weeks will tell for us."

* When it's cold, Fassel brings his team indoors to practice inside the climate
-controlled bubble. It was cold yesterday, and windy, but there were the Giants,
on their outdoor grass field, even though tomorrow they're playing inside the
Metrodome in Minneapolis, on artificial turf.

Was there a method to this madness? Fassel explained that he wanted to go
outdoors to change the normal routine, considering his team has lost three
straight games, and that he didn't realize how cold it was. Only one player,
Tiki Barber, questioned Fassel about the unusual decision.

* An MRI of Barber's left calf, which he tweaked on Thursday, revealed no damage
and he participated in yesterday's practice . . . Fassel indicated that both Ian
Allen and rookie Jeff Roehl will play at RT . . . Rookie CB Frank Walker, who
hasn't played yet this season, will get on the field vs. the Vikes in certain
packages.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOOKING UP: Mo Williams embraces Viking teammate Randy Moss after pair
combined for hook-and-ladder TD play last week in 28-20 win over Denver that
made Minnesota 6-0.AP

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               21 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 4, 2003, Thursday

ACTION HEATING UP - LITERALLY

BYLINE: Ken Moran

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 069

LENGTH: 503 words


AS we embark on the 2003-04 ski season, it looks as if we may have a repeat of
last year's fabulous schussing with steep and deep snow, but while we have the
weather to create great conditions this year, some scientists are telling us the
future of the industry does not look good.

But let's look at the positives for the moment. The big ski areas in the
northeast have gotten a good jump on the season with some snow falling in the
Adirondacks and the Green Mountains, but most importantly, it will be the cold
temperatures and snow making systems that dictate how good they have it this
year.

Catskill areas like Hunter, Belleayre and Windham are up and running as are the
big resorts of Vermont - most will offer decent skiing for this weekend. Many of
the Berkshire resorts will open on Saturday, and for New Jersey skiers, Hidden
Valley will open tomorrow, while Mountain Creek will wait until next weekend.

If you're looking for the best place in the country for skiing this weekend,
head to Utah. There, many of the ski areas are already in mid-season form with
almost all of their terrain already open - that's remarkable considering it is
the first week of December!

Now for the bad news. Global warming is threatening the world's ski resorts,
with melting at lower altitudes forcing the sport to move higher and higher up
the mountain, according to a United Nations study released Tuesday.

Downhill skiing could disappear altogether at some resorts, while at others, a
retreating snow line will cut off base villages from their ski runs as soon as
2030, warned the report by the U.N. Environment Program.

An accord aimed at halting global warming, meanwhile, may be dead. A top Kremlin
official said Tuesday that Russia won't ratify the Kyoto Protocol limiting
greenhouse gas emissions because it will hurt the country's economy. The United
States rejected the accord for the same reason. Did someone say, dumb and
dumber?

Back to some good news.

The U.S. National Ski Hall of Fame has selected seven new members, including
Olympic ski champions Tommy Moe and Diann Roffe, World Championships medalist AJ
Kitt, and Alex Cushing, who brought the 1960 Winter Games to Squaw Valley,
Calif. The seven will be inducted Jan. 24 in Ishpeming, Mich., where organized
ski competition in America was founded in 1905.

In addition to those four, Hall of Fame president Dick Goetzman said the Hall
had elected Clare Bousquet, founder of Bousquet's Ski Area in the Berkshires of
western Massachusetts who helped popularize skiing with the "ski trains" of the
1930s; Jerry Nunn, a pioneer National Ski Patrol member and the first woman
avalanche ranger in the U.S. Forest Service; and ski lift pioneer Ernst Constam.
Bousquet and Constam will be honored posthumously.

Here is a sign of things to come. A snowboarder was convicted of third-degree
assault Monday for crashing into a ski patroller and breaking his leg at Durango
Mountain Resort in Colorado. The incident happened last January.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               22 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 15, 2003, Monday

YOU GOAT, GIRLS! 'TIS THE SEASON TO CASH IN ON BARGAIN CASHMERE

BYLINE: LIBBY CALLAWAY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 048

LENGTH: 612 words


FOR years, cashmere has been a fabric only the rich could enjoy.

Now's your chance to stock your closet, too.

Stores like Ann Taylor and the Gap sell 100 percent cashmere clothes and
accessories at prices more suited for synthetic blends.

Even discount giant Target has gotten in the action, rolling out $19.99 cashmere
scarves and hats.

Blame it on the economy: This sudden crush of reasonably priced cashmere is one
of the only good things to come out of a lousy financial climate.

"We've been in a recession, and so prices for raw material is down," explains
Karl Spilhaus, president of the Cashmere and Camel Hair Manufacturers Institute
in Boston.

"The demand [for cashmere] is smaller, so lower-priced goods are more
available."

That's the reason Express, a midprice chain with over 1,000 stores nationwide,
decided to roll out its first extensive cashmere line earlier this fall - trendy
hoodies, drawstring pants, fitted sweaters and tank tops from $58 to $99.

"We've always toyed with it," says Pam Seidman, the company's p.r. spokeswoman.
"This is the first time we've done it in a big way."

And the decision has paid off. "Sales have exceeded expectation," she reports,
"and we've already reordered."

Also helping drive prices down is that factories in new source countries like
China are perfecting the careful weaving process used to make cashmere, which
was once the domain of Italy and Scotland.

Cashmere is expensive because there are a finite number of goats growing their
costly coats at any one time - and it takes one goat up to four years to make
enough cashmere for one women's sweater.

"Cashmere is like gold or diamonds," says Spilhaus. "If you find a sweater for
an unbelievably low price, I'd be suspicious."

Impatient and spendthrift companies who want to produce cashmere quickly often
scrimp on quality.

Cashmere fibers are priced by their length - longer threads are more expensive,
but they make stronger yarn and they last longer and resist pilling.

When manufacturers are pressed to make a less expensive garment, they do two
things - use cheaper cashmere and use less of it.

Instead of buying fur from the belly of the goats, they'll bid on the coarser
hair found higher on the goats' sides. Though it's not nearly as soft, it can
still be labeled 100 percent cashmere.

Sometimes they'll lie outright, labeling sweaters that include wool blends that
sag and don't last as long as "pure" cashmere.

Despite CCMI's best efforts - Spilhaus has sued companies for mislabeling - some
still fudge their fabric content.

Since you can't rely on the honesty of the parent company, cashmere buyers must
learn to go on their own instincts (see sidebar).

But thanks to the drop in prices, you'll have a wider range of styles, colors
and brands to choose from.

"You really have to be a careful shopper," says Spilhaus. "Go to a reputable
store, ask questions and look for quality."

Kid stuff

1. Cashmere is made from the hair of goats that live in the coldest regions of
northern China and Mongolia.

2. The most expensive cashmere comes from long, soft hairs found on the
underbelly of the goat. Cheaper cashmere is made from the hairs higher on the
goat's side.

3. An average goat produces only 4 to 6 ounces of under-down a year. It takes
one goat up to four years to grow enough fiber for a high-quality women's
sweater.

4. Cashmere fibers are harvested by brushing the hair on the goat's belly. This
is done each spring.

5. The name cashmere comes from the Kashmir, the mountainous land bordering
India and Pakistan.


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Model: Mary Henderson @Click
Photos: Elizabeth Lippman

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               24 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 22, 2003, Monday

THERE'S A LOT RIDING ON BEN'S 'PAYCHECK'

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 014

LENGTH: 725 words


STOP WRAPPING and pay attention.

Director John Woo's $100 mil flick "Paycheck," which everyone committed to
big-time back in the days Ben Affleck was really a player - and not just in
terms of a poker table or a lady friend - opens Christmas Day. Paramount is very
nervous.

Point One: They're not sending out many 100 million-buck pictures these days.
And we're talking about major nervousness in the studio's Executive Suite. They
need a hit.

Point two: This one's super-violent. Not the family-fare feast usually served up
for Santa.

Point three: They've surrounded Affleck with newie Aaron Eckhart and glorious
Uma Thurman, but the worry is - following "Gigli" - is he a joke whom the
industry should back off from or is he a star who can actually open a movie.
Multiple careers are riding on this one.

TREY Lindley, or whatever's the name of that nice hick Miss Paris Hilton played
jacks with when she was in that downtown Arkansas town - pop, 800 - is doing the
national circuit. In Fox's green room he had his first New York bagel and was
almost as happy as when he first tasted Paris. GMA put him up at the Millennium
and he couldn't stop tawkin' 'bout the amenities. His paw now has a cell phone.
The kid has rugged looks, is rough around the edges and even in the center. Uses
the F-word often to speak like a regular "in" guy. The parents are busy shopping
agents for modeling and movies.

His only misery: She won't talk to him anymore now that he talked to the press.

STUFF you should be doing this holiday: See "Wonderful Town" at the West 45th
Street Al Hirschfeld Theatre. Everyone else was the night I went. It was jammed
. . . Do Italian seafood at Stella del Mare on Lexington Avenue. It's festive
with decorations, holiday music and great food . . . And wish British
philanthropist - who lives in Florida - Dame Celia Lipton Faris a happy
birthday. She was born Xmas Day.

AFTER finishing his Times Square "Terminal" shoot with Tom Hanks and Catherine
Zeta-Jones, Steven Spielberg only wanted to know one thing: "Where's Ruby Foos"?
. . . Elaine Stritch wishes for Christmas a reprise of her one-man show but for
only four-weeks and with a five-a-week only performance schedule . . . The Lower
East Side: "Rose, I must tell you about our daughter. She's a lesbian." "Ohh,
thank God, I thought you were going to say she's a Republican." . . . The Andrew
Cuomo-Kerry Kennedy Cuomo divorce. Each has something on the other. Each
threatens the other. Each says if you ever say this to the media, then I'll say
that. It inches forward in a hostile albeit silent climate.

PREDICTIONS for the new year. From famous psychic Paula Roberts: Bush loses by
small margin. Paula's saying that not me. Paula . . . Bloomberg wins . . . Third
Catherine Zeta-Jones/Michael Douglas baby . . . Cate Blanchett and Nicole Kidman
duel for Oscars. Another Aussie, Russell Crowe, cops another statuette . . .
Tony Blair and North Korean president replaced . . . River Thames floods . . .
Something else floods Brittannia. News that Camilla and Charles marry quietly.
Outside London. Another wedding is Beyonc and Jay-Z.

Also, Chile's vineyards produce an extraordinary vintage. Change in the Met
Museum's top management (and how this would show up in tarot cards, God knows).

WENDY the Psychics' Psychic: Ashton gets Demi pregnant then they bust up. Also
Ashton - says Wendy not me - has a little fling thing with a young blonde. Says
Wendy, me not! . . . Cindy Crawford a mommy again . . . Paris Hilton engaged to
a famous TV guy. Also bylines a best seller . . . Jessica Alba gets hot on the
screen . . . Violence in Angola . . . Economy improves. Bull market begins in
summer . . . Dick Cheney. Health causes him to be replaced in office . . .
Erratic weather conditions ruin fruit and veggie crop . . . Movie stars build
ecologically correct homes in Canada . . . Rising costs inspire colleges to
create three-year accelerated programs.

ACTRESS Neva Small received a check from Citibank which states it "will not be
honored after July 31, 2004. It further states it is a "refund under the terms
of a settlement agreement reached in a class action lawsuit." The amount made
out in her name? Thirteen cents.

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CATHERINE ZETA-JONESWill cradle rock again? Jennifer Graylock/AP

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               25 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 24, 2003, Wednesday

U.S. ECONO-BOOM FINALLY REACHES NYC

BYLINE: ADAM MILLER

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 429 words


Business in the Big Apple - and the entire country- is booming.

New York was lagging behind the rest of the United States, but now seems to be
catching up, experts said yesterday, as the government reported that the economy
nationwide has expanded at the fastest rate in nearly 20 years,

Marc Goloven, a senior regional economist for JPMorgan Chase in Manhattan, said
the city economy has dramatically improved in the past few months.

"Already, there seem to be some definitive signs that the New York City economy
is emerging from its protracted . . . recession," he said. "The economic quality
is definitely warming up in the city."

He said the surge will continue and "should result in . . . a declining
unemployment rate."

Former State Comptroller Ned Regan agreed, saying the city's economy is "turning
the corner."

"Productivity has been phenomenal," said Regan.

"It looks like, at long last, the [city] economy is picking up. There's good
signs of hiring, more than we've seen in a year and a half."

Charles Gargano, head of the Empire State Development Corp., was even more
enthusiastic.

"New York City is in a great position economically right now," said Gargano,
whose state-run organization was created to encourage business growth. "We're
starting to reap the benefits of the nation's economic rebound. People are
spending more and companies are expanding. There's strong momentum."

As for the country as a whole, the U.S. Commerce Department reported yesterday
that the gross domestic product grew at an impressive 8.2 percent rate during
the third quarter.

It was the biggest spurt in 20 years.

"Growth was boosted by consumer spending, by business investment in equipment
and software, by investment in housing, and by exports," the department said in
a statement.

And many economic analysts are optimistic that the GDP in the current quarter
could grow faster than 5 percent, resulting in the best back-to-back growth
rates since the 1990s.

With Post Wire Services

----

Way to grow

Highlights of the latest economic report:

* The U.S. economy has expanded at the fastest rate in nearly 20 years

* GDP grew at 8.2 percent rate during the third quarter - the biggest spurt
since 1983

* Consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in November.

Here's a look at the GDP since 2001

Annualized quarterly change (chart - graph)

Source: Department of Commerce


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A shopper carries packages in Herald Square yesterday. Analysts say the
economy's growth was boosted by consumer spending.  [Bloomberg News]

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               26 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 28, 2003, Sunday

KYOTO PROTOCOL, R.I.P.

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 538 words


The Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse-gas emissions has apparently been rejected by
Russia, a major blow to the treaty's hypocritical European proponents.

President Vladimir Putin's chief economic adviser, Andrei Illarionov, said in
Moscow this month: "Of course, in its present form, this protocol cannot be
ratified. It is impossible to undertake responsibilities that place serious
limits on the country's growth."

A Russian junior minister responsible for Kyoto later qualified this statement,
saying that "There are no decisions about ratification other than that we are
moving towards [it]."

But the truth is that Kyoto is dead, and has been for some time.

If the Russians officially reject the 1997 accord, it will simply put it utterly
beyond any form of resuscitation - fortunately for the world economy and the
prosperity of billions of people.

Without Russian ratification, the treaty can't enter force among its
signatories, because by its own provisions it can't take effect until ratified
by countries whose combined greenhouse-gas production accounts for at least 55
percent of emissions from industrialized nations.

Russia accounts for 17 percent of greenhouse emissions; the United States for 36
percent. (Australia, like the United States, has already withdrawn its
provisional signature of the treaty.)

And the plain fact is that without the participation of the United States, the
treaty is a dead letter.

President Bush is constantly pilloried by his opponents here and abroad for
rejecting his predecessor's signing of the Kyoto treaty, even though the
protocol was essentially rendered moot when the U.S. Senate voted against it
95-0 even before the Clinton administration had signed it.

Fifty of the 120 countries that signed the treaty have yet to ratify it, and
many of those that have done so may have little intention of following its
dictates.

(France, for instance, has a long history of choosing to ignore economically
inconvenient European Union environmental regulations.)

The Russians were smart to say no to a treaty that, if followed, would have
crippled Putin's efforts to rebuild the country's ailing economy.

Remember: It isn't even proven beyond a reasonable doubt that global warming is
actually a product of human economic activity.

Then, too, the Kyoto Protocol was always rigged to give its European authors an
economic edge over the United States.

More important is that the protocol exempts India, China and other key
developing nations from its strictures even though they are among the world's
biggest polluters. (Indeed, Kyoto exempts nine of the top 20 emitters of carbon
dioxide.)

The further development of these two countries, with their billion-plus
populations all craving the refrigeration and air conditioning that's taken for
granted in the West, will make them huge producers of so-called greenhouse
gasses.

And there is no doubt if the United States had accepted Kyoto's rules it would
have had a huge negative impact on American jobs.

Kyoto was a bad idea in 1997, and it's a bad idea today.

If President Putin's government scotches all remaining hope for its coming into
effect, Russia will have done the whole world a favor.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               27 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            June 12, 2003, Thursday

NBA STARTS CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGAL HOOPS DUPES

BYLINE: TIM ARANGO

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 039

LENGTH: 393 words


Counterfeiters of hoops merchandise are going upscale.

While the National Basketball Association has long contended with the pesky
sellers of bootleg T-shirts and hats outside arenas and on city streets, the
league has seen a dramatic rise over the last six months in the sale of high-end
knockoffs, league executives told The Post.

These include retro jerseys and warm-up jackets and jerseys - goods that are
priced at $200 to $300, some of which are showing up in retail outlets. As a
result, the NBA has stepped up its enforcement efforts, which include working
closely with law enforcement and customs officials.

"There's been a pretty significant increase, not just in the amount of goods but
in the types of items that are being counterfeited," said Sal LaRocca, senior
vice president for global merchandising at the NBA. "We've ratcheted up
[enforcement] because the activity has gotten much larger."

About a week ago, he said, customs officials in New York seized a shipment of
about 6,000 counterfeit items coming from Asia. LaRocca suspects that domestic
manufacturers are also to blame, and said law enforcement agencies are trying to
track them.

"It's a direct reflection of the strength of our brand," LaRocca said. "It's
resonated with a very fashion-conscious consumer."

Investigations of counterfeiting activity are coordinated through a group formed
in the 1990s by the major sports leagues - the Coalition to Advance the
Protection of Sports Logos, or CAPS. The group actually trains customs officials
on how to spot fake merchandise.

Since CAPS was formed in 1993, the group has taken 900 enforcement actions and
seized 6.8 million items of counterfeit merchandise worth about $180 million,
according to Vanessa Backman, a CAPS spokeswoman.

But this is likely a fraction of the total amount of counterfeit goods that are
on the streets, Backman says.

----

Targeting fakes

The NBA is battling a flood of knockoffs of its pricey Hardwood Classics retro
apparel. Details:

* Hot items include retro jerseys and warm-up jackets priced between $200 and
$300.

* The NBA is teaming up with law enforcement and customs officials to crack down
on phony goods.

* Customs officials recently seized about 6,000 counterfeit hoops items from
Asia.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Chicago shopper checks out NBA retro apparel.  AP

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               28 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                         September 17, 2003, Wednesday

JOKE'S ON STAR-STRUCK COMIC

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 010

LENGTH: 1748 words


JIMMY Kimmel - after playing pranks for six years on a gullible and ambitious
friend - finally convinced Perry Caravello he'd be starring in a movie.

But "Windy City Heat," which premieres Oct. 12 on Comedy Central, actually shows
Caravello as he is fooled into thinking he's playing a hard-boiled detective
named Stone Fury, a role that will make him "bigger than Brando."

But there is no such movie, and everyone is in on the hoax except for Caravello,
who is "susceptible, egomaniacal, fame-hungry," according to Kimmel.

"Windy City Heat" is really a movie within a movie - a real-life "Truman Show" -
where Caravello is on a pathetic mission to become "an actor - no wait, a star!
I want to be a star," he declares.

Kimmel was helped by actor pal Tony Barbieri, who was known to Caravello only as
a comedian named "Mole," and by Don Barris, who originally discovered Caravello
on the Los Angeles comedy circuit and brought him to Kimmel as the perfect dupe.

Over the years, Barbieri and Barris played tricks on Caravello by sending him to
fake auditions and making him dress up for "roles," never letting him in on the
jokes.

"This guy would do anything they said," Kimmel told PAGE SIX. "They had him
perform as a baby once."

Last year, Caravello was told of a big movie audition. He's seen as he "wins"
the starring role away from Carson Daly, meets Bobcat Goldthwait (playing the
director), the casting director (an actor playing Roman Polanski), and the
producer, "John Quincy Adams."

Adam Carolla has a small role, bumping into Caravello on the set in a gladiator
costume, and explaining he was making "Air Caligula," a gladiator-dog-buddy
movie.

William "The Refrigerator" Perry and former Chicago Cub Ernie Banks co-star in
the bogus movie as clients of Caravello's private eye. Perry's character hires
"Stone Fury" to recover his stolen fridge, and Banks needs to get back his
purloined pants.

At the end of the fake movie, Caravello has to jump in and out of a dumpster
full of manure, eat a milkshake made from pizza, beer, fried rice, doughnuts and
milk, and almost gets beaten with a bat.

"We want to do a lot of movies with [Caravello]," Kimmel said. "You know, like
westerns or where he goes to space."

Street war (s, lcf)

US Weekly and Star magazine are taking their battle from the newsstands to the
Bryant Park tents with squads of hired models distributing their dailies. The
Star's "Pink Panthers" - in pink trench coats, black fishnets, heels and fedoras
- upstaged Us Daily's girls, who wore T-shirts. First, the Us gals aped the
Star's fedoras. When it rained, Us fled for cover while the Star girls grabbed
chic umbrellas. Worse still, Us tried in vain to poach two Star girls. Later, an
Us girl tried to switch camps but was refused.

Beneath her? (s, lcf)

PRINCESS Stephanie of Monaco has married her latest boyfriend, Portuguese circus
acrobat Adans Lopez Peres. Stephanie, 38, has two children with her former
bodyguard Daniel Ducruet, whom she eventually married in 1995. She had a third
child with another bodyguard, Jean-Raymond Gottlieb. Then Stephanie, daughter of
Grace Kelly, dated Swiss circus director and elephant trainer Franco Knie. She
married Peres last Friday in a private ceremony, reportedly in Geneva.

Sightings

CNN anchor Lou Dobbs, with two lovely young ladies in tow, dancing up a storm
and buying cocktails for the rag-tag regulars at Hell's Kitchen dive bar Siberia
. . . LEONARDO DiCaprio, Toby McGuire and Shoshanna Lonstein watching the
Mosley/ de la Hoya fight at the Sporting Club in TriBeCa . . . ROBERT Redford,
his German painter girlfriend Sibylle Szaggars, and fashion designer Kenneth
Cole and his wife, Maria Cuomo Cole, being served personally by Daniel Boulud in
the private Skybox Room at Daniel . . . JOHN Stamos and the man he will replace
in "Nine," Antonio Banderas, going through DVDs at Tower Records on West 67th
Street.

Swimming back from hell

SPALDING Gray is still struggling to regain his sanity a year after he checked
into a Manhattan mental hospital for depression after nearly jumping off a
bridge in the Hamptons. The brilliant writer and star of "Swimming to Cambodia"
received electroshock treatments following his aborted suicide attempt off the
Sag Harbor Bridge, first reported on PAGE SIX last year. GQ magazine reports
that Gray, 61, who was subsequently diagnosed with manic depression, tried to
kill himself one week before the bridge incident by jumping off his Beetle Cat
sailboat. Gray has been out of the hospital for eight months and is holed up in
his upstate country home working on his next monologue. He has been working with
renowned neurologist Oliver Sacks as well as a plethora of private shrinks. "I
sometimes think I'm self-destructive," Gray tells the magazine. "But I don't
want to be."

Smoke snatch (s, lcf)

SEAN "P. Diddy" Combs' love of cigars has put him in a cloud of legal trouble. A
boutique cigar maker claims a cameraman trespassed at its Miami factory and
filmed its "secret process" in June, and that the footage wound up in Combs'
music video for "Bad Boys II," starring Will Smith and Martin Lawrence. The
lawsuit, which Moore & Bode Cigars filed in Miami-Dade Circuit Court, seeks at
least $15,000 in damages from Combs and Bad Boys Entertainment Inc. The suit
claims the company's "unique method of rolling the cigars" was taped for the
"Shake Ya Tailfeather" video while the owners were out after the cameraman was
told to leave.

Sober Sundays

PARIS Hilton (above) is laughing all to way onto the covers of magazines, if not
the bank. The undies-shuning heiress just shot covers for The Face, Vegas
magazine and Ocean Drive. She waltzed into Bungalow 8 after 2 a.m. yesterday and
made a bee-line for the banquette where Ingrid Casares was holding court. Our
spy had to leave before any shenanigans could commence. But Paris' friend Joe
Francis, who makes millions with his "Girls Gone Wild" videos, didn't help her
reputation with his recent appearance on Howard Stern. "When she's sober, Paris
is a pretty smart girl," Francis said. "When is she sober?" Stern asked. "Sunday
night," Francis joked.

Miles of smiles

LEAVE it to the fun-loving Brazilians to promote a party with a party. Luciana
Curtis (above), Carolina Bittencourt, Marcelle Bittar and Ana Claudia Michels
were just a few of the top Brazilian models at the "warm-up party" to promote
Brazil Foundation's first annual gala set for Sept. 24. The warm-up was held at
Patricia Lobaccaro's TriBeCa loft.

Cartier cuffs (m)

STROLLERS on Fifth Avenue were aghast yesterday afternoon when they passed the
Cartier mansion. "There was police tape inside and outside of the windows, like
a crime scene," one bystander gushed. Not to worry - the jeweler had not been
burglarized. The store windows were decorated that way for a new bracelet called
Menotte, which means handcuff in French. The bangle could be the new S&M
accessory for the monied set. As a rep for the store said, "It really looks like
a handcuff."

We hear . . .  (m)

THAT the fellow with Jocelyne Wildenstein at the Lloyd Klein show on Saturday
was not Danny Pelosi, ex-husband of Ted Ammon's late Generosa, as fashion week
organ The Daily reported. Sources say the ex-con electrician hasn't been to any
shows . . . THAT the New York Times has started charging documentary makers for
use of its headlines.

Street war (m)

US Weekly and Star magazine are taking their battle from the newsstands to the
Bryant Park tents with squads of hired models distributing their dailies. The
Star's "Pink Panthers" - in pink trench coats, black fishnets, heels and fedoras
- upstaged Us Daily's girls, who wore T-shirts. First, the Us gals aped the
Star's fedoras. When it rained, Us fled for cover while the Star girls grabbed
chic umbrellas. Worse still, Us tried in vain to poach two Star girls. Later, an
Us girl tried to switch camps but was refused. "Us Daily is about the people
inside the tents, not outside," said their flack.

Sassoon 'pretender' taken to task

THE battle continues over the name Sassoon. Procter & Gamble, which acquired
global rights to Vidal Sassoon's trademark in 1985, has sent a cease and desist
letter to a new sportswear line that calls itself Sassoon. "What they are doing
is a violation of our trademark," P&G flack Kim Vollbrect tells PAGE SIX's
Michael Rovner. The letter arrived Sept. 10, the same day the fledgling label
threw a party at Capitale for such guests as Amanda Hearst, and Princes Dimitri
and Michel of Yugoslavia. Sassoon once went to court to force a jeans company to
drop an "o" from its brand name. "We registered a name that was abandoned by a
person who died," said the upstart Sassoon's chief operating officer, Harmon
Seymour, who sounded unaware that Vidal Sassoon remains very much alive. Seymour
admits he's counting on consumer confusion: "We thought people wouldn't know the
difference." The me-too brand might have to change its name to something less
confusing before it rolls out its $1 million ad campaign.

Leg display

JUDITH Regan wasn't the only one surprised at her secret 50th birthday bash the
other night. It was supposed to be held at Lea on Park Avenue for 50 friends.
But after 200 people RSVP'd for the publishing potentate's party, Regan's
assistant switched it to the more spacious Jean Luc just the night before.
Howard Stern, Rose McGowan, David Zinczenko, Patricia Duff, Dick Morris, Janice
Dickinson and Rabbi Schumley Boteach got the news in time to make the bash,
highlighted by former supermodel Dickinson spreading her legs for photogs after
being egged on by swishy Vanity Fair scribe George Wayne. Rabbi Boteach, who
famously authored "Kosher Sex," missed the fun after he and his wife left the
dinner for a kosher meal.

Double duty

"COLD Mountain" starlet Taryn Manning is a busy girl. Besides headlining her own
band, she's working on a clothing line. "It will be very edgy ready-to-wear for
women," Manning's rep said. "She may be partnering a la Gwen Stefani with a
larger designer but we cannot say yet."


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -Hollywood glam couple Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore dance body-to-body
on the stage of the trendy White Lotus nightclub in Los Angeles yesterday.
Splash News
-Paris Hilton, Luciana Curtis

-Brit beauty Kate Beckinsale arrives with big hair and a big ring at the
premiere of her new film "Underworld" at Mann's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood.
EPA Photo

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               29 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 19, 2003, Sunday

GLOBAL SWARMING ; TOP TALENT SHINES OVER AWARD BASH

BYLINE: ALY SUJO and PAULA FROELICH

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 007

LENGTH: 641 words


A gaggle of Tinseltown's pushiest drama queens - including Meryl, Nicole,
Julianne, Renee and Catherine Z-J - are all after the same thing tonight: the
gleaming Golden Globe Award.

This year, the competition for the best actress prize is one of the fiercest in
years, with standout performances from a prestigious lineup of thespians.

Among them are Aussie chatterbox Nicole Kidman - tirelessly promoting her own
performance in the poetic weepie "The Hours" - and her two co-stars Meryl Streep
and Julianne Moore. Kidman is hoping her prosthetically enhanced performance as
Virginia Woolf will get the nod.

Meanwhile, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Rene Zellweger are up for Globes for their
performances in the jazz-age musical "Chicago," which has eight nominations, the
second-highest number in the 60-year history of the awards.

Chosen by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, the Globes' annual
curtain-raiser to the Oscars comes just three weeks before the Academy Award
nominations are announced, and it's seen as an important indication of who's up
for the biggest prize in talkies.

Hollywood cognoscenti believe "Chicago" will snare at least three major Globes,
including best musical or comedy film, best actress in a musical for Zellweger
and best actor for Richard Gere.

"The Hours," described by many as a convoluted gut-wrencher, is also heavily
tipped to walk away as a major laureate with seven nods, including best drama
and three for best actress.

In third place in the nominations is "Adaptation," the tale of a neurotic
screenwriter, which has six nods including best musical or comedy and best
comedy actor for Nicolas Cage.

Other top nominees for the Globes, which will be presented during a lavish
Beverly Hills banquet, are "About Schmidt" and Martin Scorsese's period epic
"Gangs of New York."

"Far From Heaven," which stars Julianne Moore as a suburban housewife in the
1950s, is up for five awards.

Meanwhile, some of the Golden Globes winners could get short-changed this year.
Winners usually get "goody bags" filled with expensive items, but this year, a
Post spy said the bags could be worth a good deal less.

"They're usually really nice bags worth thousands, but for some reason they're
going cheap this year," the spy said. "They're filling their bags with things
like an 11-pound bar of chocolate."

BEST FILM - DRAMA

ABOUT SCHMIDT, GANGS OF NEW YORK, THE HOURS ,THE LORD OF THE RINGS: THE TWO
TOWERS, THE PIANIST

BEST ACTRESS - DRAMA

SALMA HAYEK, Frida; NICOLE KIDMAN,The Hours; DIANE LANE, Unfaithful; JULIANNE
MOORE, Far From Heaven; MERYL STREEP, The Hours

BEST ACTOR - DRAMA

ADRIEN BRODY, The Pianist; MICHAEL CAINE, The Quiet American; DANIEL DAY-LEWIS,
Gangs of New York; LEONARDO DICAPRIO, Catch Me if You Can; JACK NICHOLSON, About
Schmidt

BEST MUSICAL/COMEDY

ABOUT A BOY; ADAPTATION; CHICAGO; MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING; NICHOLAS NICKLEBY

BEST ACTRESS - MUSICAL OR COMEDY

MAGGIE GYLLENHAAL, Secretary; GOLDIE HAWN, The Banger Sisters; NIA VARDALOS, My
Big Fat Greek Wedding; RENEE ZELLWEGER, Chicago; CATHERINE ZETA-JONES, Chicago

BEST ACTOR - MUSICAL OR COMEDY

NICOLAS CAGE, Adaptation; KIERAN CULKIN, Igby Goes Down; RICHARD GERE, Chicago;
HUGH GRANT, About a Boy; ADAM SANDLER, Punch-Drunk Love

BEST TV SERIES - DRAMA

24; THE SHIELD; SIX FEET UNDER; THE SOPRANOS; THE WEST WING

BEST TV SERIES - MUSICAL/COMEDY

CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM; FRIENDS; SEX AND THE CITY; THE SIMPSONS; WILL & GRACE


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LIP SERVICE:Best-actor winner Daniel Day-Lewis and Nicole Kidman warm
up for the Golden Globes at the Critics' Choice Awards. AP

BABY, IT'S NICOLE OUTSIDE:Nicole Kidman slinks into Friday's Critics' Choice
Awards in a barely there getup. Russ Einhorn/Splash News

JACK NICHOLSON Won critical award.

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               30 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 25, 2003, Tuesday

MING MAN HITS APPLE: ROCKET CENTER SET FOR GARDEN PARTY

BYLINE: MARK HALE

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 076

LENGTH: 807 words


BOSTON - He is The Dynasty. The Next Big Thing. The NBA's Savior.

And tonight he'll play the league's biggest stage.

For the first time, Yao Ming will play on the fabled Madison Square Garden
floor. All seven feet, six inches of him.

Houston's rookie sensation flew in to a salivating New York City after the
Rockets' 101-95 OT win over the Celtics last night. Asked how excited he was to
finally play in the Mecca of Basketball, Yao flashed a wide grin before
motioning to his translator, Colin Pine.

"If Colin treats me to a pizza, I'll be even more excited," Yao said in Mandarin
before adding in English, "New York pizza."

But while Yao used his playful humor to describe the anticipation, his teammates
know tonight means a lot to him.

"It's going to be amazing. Everything's been great for him, but I think
[tonight] will probably be by far the best for Yao, playing in New York and the
Garden," Rockets guard Moochie Norris said. "I know he can't wait to get there."

"It's going to be big-time for him because the Garden is legendary," former
Knick Glen Rice said. "I'm sure Yao has heard many stories about the Garden and
New York has one of the biggest [media contingents]. But he'll just go out there
and do his thing."

Last night, Boston's defense held Yao to nine points on just two field goal
attempts (he hit both, a baby hook and a short layup). But he brought out
legions of fans, many of whom brought hand-made signs (although the best one
came from a Celtic fan, who, referring to Boston star Paul Pierce's nickname,
wrote, "Yao want the Truth? Yao can't handle the Truth!")

New York is just as excited. Who isn't these days? Indeed, Yao is a global
phenomenon - a force in the paint, an emerging star in the marketplace and a
celebrity nearly everywhere else.

Get with the times, folks - Yao is now.

"I'm pretty used to it," Yao said of his newfound status. "The cost of enjoying
the season has been very tiring. Every game there's a new challenge and facing
up against every different player presents new problems."

But it's the way Yao has handled those challenges that has landed him squarely
in America's heart. On the court, he's exhibited stunning improvement. Off it,
he's endeared himself to a nation.

"He's like the big brother I always wish I had," Norris said.

"He's so easy to smile, it just warms you up," his coach, Rudy Tomjanovich,
said. "You get a good feeling being around the guy."

"He was a really nice kid," Yogi Berra, who shot the popular VISA commercial
with Yao, remembered. "I asked him, aeDid you ever play baseball before?' He
said he went to the batting cage and couldn't hit. He thought it was too hard,
so he stuck to basketball."

Smart move. Already, the 22-year-old is one of the league's favorite sons. He
blasted Shaquille O'Neal out of the All-Star lineup and has inspired a cult
song, a bobblehead doll and a celebrity duck.

He's on your TV, too. There he is, pitching Apple computers. And VISA cards. And
soon enough, Gatorade. Add in the 100 media members who cover it when he ties
his shoes and you see what we're dealing with.

"He's an ambassador between the U.S. and China," Hu Bing, manager for The China
Press, gushed. "He can do more than anyone."

How's that for pressure?

"Nobody's had to go through what this guy's had to go through," Tomjanovich
said.

So as the reporters and cameramen swarmed last night, Hu saw fit to put the
scene in perspective.

"Welcome," he announced, "to Yao Ming!"

And welcome, Yao Ming, to New York.

THE MING FILE

BIRTHDATE: Sept. 12, 1980

AGE: 22

HEIGHT: 7-6

WEIGHT: 296 pounds

WINGSPAN: 90 inches

SHOE SIZE: 18

HAILS FROM: Shanghai, China

SALARY: Three-year deal $12.3 million

FAVORITE DRINK: Iced Starbucks Frappuccinos

Rockets big man Yao Ming makes his first trip to the Garden tomorrow. A look at
how Yao ranks among centers in his maiden NBA season:

ASSISTS

1. Tim Duncan 3.9

2. Vlade Divac 3.7

3. Cliff Robinson 3.1

4. Dirk Nowitzki 2.8

5. Brad Miller 2.6

10. Yao Ming 1.7

SCORING

1. Shaquille O'Neal 25.9

2. Dirk Nowitzki 23.6

3. Tim Duncan 23.4

4. Jermaine O'Neal 19.7

5. Zydrunas Ilgauskas 17.6

8. Yao Ming 13.5

REBOUNDS

1. Ben Wallace 14.6

2. Tim Duncan 12.7

3. Brian Grant 10.6

4. Jermaine O'Neal 10.5

5. Dirk Nowitzki 9.9

9. Yao Ming 8.3

FIELD GOAL PCT.

1. Shaquille O'Neal .559

2. Yao Ming .518

3. Radoslav Nestorvic .513

4. Brad Miller .511

5. Brian Grant .502

BLOCKS

1. Ben Wallace 3.00

2. Theo Ratliff 2.93

3. Tim Duncan 2.91

4. Shawn Bradley 2.55

5. Adonal Foyle 2.38

T11. Yao Ming 1.91

DOUBLE-DOUBLES

1. Tim Duncan 39

2. Jermaine O'Neal 29

3. Dirk Nowitzki 27

4. Shaquille O'Neal 25

T5. Yao Ming 20


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: YAO MING.  AP

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               31 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 22, 2003, Sunday

LATEST TOME'S DARKER TONE MAKES IT THE BEST YET

BYLINE: Bill Hoffmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 341 words


BRAVO!

"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix" turns out to be by far the best of
the boy wizard's adventures so far.

And that's no small feat for a spectacular series that, against the odds, just
gets better with each book.

Potter fans who love to savor J.K. Rowling's magical prose slowly, sentence by
sentence, will find it hard not to race through "The Order of the Phoenix" to
find out what happens.

That's exactly what I did early yesterday during a nine-hour, all-night session
powered by a pot and a half of Starbucks coffee.

Book 5 faithfully begins as the previous four have, with yet another hysterical
humiliation of the boorish Dursley family - with dumpy Dudley once again getting
a big taste of his own medicine.

But that's where the similarities to the past stories stop.

This book is a lot darker and much less whimsical than the past ones, a
noticeably faster pace. In effect, Rowling is saying: "OK, warm-up's over. It's
show time!"

Harry, you see, has transformed from a joking adolescent into a brooding
teenager, bitterly sarcastic to the quick, increasingly worried about the world
and his place in it, and jolted by disturbing new revelations about the parents
he never knew.

He seems to know that his days in the relatively safe confines of the Hogwarts
School are numbered.

Harry's pals, Ron and Hermoine, also seem at odds with the world - their angst a
combination of impending global terrors and teen growing pains, problems that
echo the worries of every young person today.

Harry needs whatever bravado he can muster because Lord Voldemort is a bigger
threat than ever in "The Order of the Phoenix" - the title of the secret society
created by Professor Dumbledore to battle He Who Must Not Be Named.

It's your basic good-vs.-evil plot, but Rowling, like a good mystery author,
drops in enough red herrings and fuels the plot with dozens of neat twists and
turns to keep even the sharpest-eyed reader guessing throughout the epic-length
tale.

Please, J.K., just keep on writing.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               32 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           August 20, 2003, Wednesday

RED SOX HARBOR WILD-EST DREAMS

BYLINE: KEVIN KERNAN

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 071

LENGTH: 540 words


BOSTON - The grand slam plan has changed a bit. The reality of summer - and of
being six games behind the Yankees in the loss column - now has Red Sox Nation
thinking global.

The talk on the talk shows is all about getting to October - and those amazing
Little League kids from Saugus - not dominating the AL East and the Yankees.
That time will come.

Now it's a case of "Ballplayers Gone Wild."

The wild card is at the center of the Red Sox's universe, and that's what made
last night's showdown at Fenway Park against the hard-throwing, soft-hitting A's
so important. Both teams went into the warm night with identical 71-53 records,
tied for the wild-card lead. The A's and their management just seem to be happy
to be in the race, considering their low payroll. For the Red Sox, it's a
different story: They must win.

The new blueprint for erasing the Curse of the Bambino goes something like this:
Win the wild card then take care of business against the Yankees in the ALCS.

Not a bad plan if you can put it into action. Being home was expected to ease
the Sawx's recent woes a bit. Going into last night, the Red Sox were 39-19 at
home, 32-34 on the road.

"This team responds to playing at home," is how catcher Jason Varitek put it to
reporters. "There are guys who have the kind of character who respond to the
intensity of playing here."

Three hours before last night's game the fans were lined up on Yawkey Way,
waiting to get inside the glorious green gates. If you didn't know better you
would have thought the Yankees were in town. There were even a few bad-taste
"Bleep the Yankees" bumper stickers spotted around the area.

It was the A's in town, though, and interestingly enough, they were chartered to
Fenway from the nearby Sheraton Hotel by Yankee Lines. There was a certain
"Moneyball" irony to all that.

As the Red Sox took batting practice, the Green Monster was lined four rows deep
with fans spying down from the eagle's nest. No matter what happens in this Red
Sox season, those seats are the greatest innovation come up with by Larry
Lucchino & Co.

And those seats are the best to keep an eye on the Red Sox's big boppers. To a
man, the Boston batters are hitting better in their friendly confines than they
are on the road. The Sox are hitting .248 in August and batted just .213 on last
week's 3-4 road trip.

Is good pitching finally slowing down these muscular Sox? Or is it just that
this team was built for Fenway.

Consider that Nomar Garciaparra leads the way with a .392 mark at home and a
.254 average on the road. The Red Sox thought coming home would be just what
they needed after the trip through Oakland and Seattle, even if it meant facing
Mark Mulder, Ted Lilly and Tim Hudson for these three games, which will be
followed by a four-game matchup with the Mariners.

Then it gets a bit more interesting. There are two games with the Blue Jays and
three more here with the Yankees. By Sept. 1, at the end of this homestand, the
Sox will know where they stand.

It will be either "Go Sox" or "Go Pats."


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOME COOKIN':Nomar Garciaparra is epitome of Red Sox's success at home,
struggles on the road. He's batting .392 at Fenway, .254 elsewhere. AP

           Copyright 2003 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
