
                               1 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday

ENERGY SPECULATORS CATCH CHILL FROM MILD WINTER

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 636 words


IT is going to be warm this winter. Very warm.

Says who? The National Weather Service.

Higher-than-normal temperatures throughout the United States in thecoming weeks
and months shouldn't come as such a big surprise since 2006has a chance to
become the warmest year since nationwide statistics startedbeing kept in 1895.

In case you haven't been keeping up with the latest Wall Street
nonsense,speculators were rejoicing when they finally got some seasonal
temperatureslate last week. But it doesn't look like there will be much weather
joyamong the energy gamblers this year.

And while colder weather is inevitable - it is December, after all - thegoons
who try to profit by scaring up the price of fuel are missing a vitalpoint:
While Wyoming may be a bit chilly, the nation as a whole has beenpretty darned
warm.

Worse for the goons, the situation isn't likely to get much better forthem or
the oil cartel that is cheering them on.

So let me be the first to state the obvious - we won't need as muchheating oil
this winter. And $60-a-barrel oil - which is where the pricesettled after
tumbling - could be looking mighty expensive before thewinter is done.

If you're a gambler looking to make a stupid bet, you'd be better offputting
your investment dough on the Giants being in the Super Bowl thisseason rather
than on oil making another run for the moon.

The new saying among energy speculators should be, once burnt, twicestupid.

Here are some statistics that'll confirm what everyone who hasn't bumpedup their
thermostat already knows - it's been warm.

According to the National Weather Service, the average U.S. temperaturefor
January through October of this year was 57.85 degrees.

That's higher than the 57.77 degrees average temperature from Januarythrough
October of 1998. And 1998 was the hottest year on record!

The National Weather Service is predicting a mild winter - especially inthe
populous northeastern part of the U.S. - because this is, as the agencysays, "an
El Niño year."

El Niño is our friend.

In case you're not up on either your Spanish or your meteorology, El Niñois a
temporary change in the global climate because of unusually warm waterin the
central Pacific Ocean.

We've got an El Niño this year, and those warm Pacific Ocean currentsthat blow
across the nation on trades winds mean warm temperatures - andheartache for
energy speculators.

El Niño helped cause the temperature record in 1998. "It was a very warmwinter,"
remembers Mark Halpert, a meteorologist for the National WeatherService's
Climate Prediction Center. "And no snow."

Despite all the evidence to the contrary, Wall Street is still prayingfor a
white Christmas and snowy New Year.

One piece of stock market junk that came my way last week asked if a"major
nor'easter" would strike the East Coast next week with lots of snow.

In fact, the El Niño weather patterns keep the Arctic Air right where itbelongs
- with our Canadian neighbors, who know how to deal with it.

But there's even worse news for energy speculators like T. Boone Pickens,who got
blasted by the 20 percent drop in oil prices this year.

It's also bad news for all the media outlets that have a bizarre habit ofquoting
Pickens, who was nothing more than a clumsy corporate raider untilhe was dubbed
a guru.

The nation's economy is slowing. And people who feel poorer aren'tinclined to
keep their house too toasty, even if it does get cold.

Worse, there is already an excessive amount of oil, natural gas andgasoline just
waiting to be used.

The crude oil stockpile is up 5.9 percent from last year's levels.Gasoline is a
little less than 1 percent higher, and there's so much extrahome heating oil -
up 6.3 percent - that the gunk may start oozing out oftanks before too long.

When will El Niño start affecting us?

"It's happening now," says Halpert.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

SHUT UP, THEY ARGUE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 486 words


Sen. Frank Lautenberg made a splash recently by announcing that he'd begun
"coordinated, sweeping investigations of the Bush administration's censorship
and suppression" of global-warming research.

Notwithstanding the New Jersey Dem's pre-conclusions, allegations that the
Bushies have covered up scientific research are surely just that -  allegations.
And from a political advantage-seeker, to boot.

Meanwhile, Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) and Rep.
Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) are trying to defund global-warming studies, suppress
previous findings and steer research. Where are the hysterical media reports on
this "anti-science" assault? Where are Lautenberg's calls for "coordinated,
sweeping investigations"?

As Snowe and Rockefeller tell it, some research is destructive to America's
image and thus must be squashed. Namely, research funded in part by the energy
industry and containing findings that conflict with their views.

"ExxonMobil -  which recorded $10.5 billion in third-quarter profits this year -
has an obligation and a responsibility . . . to refrain from lending their
support, financial and otherwise, to bogus, non-substantiated articles . . . on
climate change," said Rockefeller.

The senators claim that groups like the Competitive Enterprise Institute and
TechCentralStation.com produce "pseudo-science" that has "unfortunately
succeeded in raising questions about the legitimate scientific community's
virtually universal findings on the detrimental effects of global warming."

To "fix" this "problem," the senators hope to silence one side of the debate. In
a letter to CEO Rex Tillerson, they ask ExxonMobil to "acknowledge both the
reality of climate change and the role of humans in causing or exacerbating it."
The firm "should repudiate its climate-change denial campaign and make public
its funding history."

And, for good measure, ExxonMobil also must pay for global-warming "remediation
efforts," which, they add thoughtfully, "would be especially important in the
developing world, where the disasterous [sic] effects of global climate change
are likely to have their most immediate and calamitous impacts."

Rockefeller, Snowe and Waxman's environmental concerns might be legitimate, but
their effort to muzzle other views is not. Yes, the planet appears to be warming
-  it certainly is relative to 10,000 or so years ago, when a glacier a mile
thick sat atop what is now Manhattan island.

But, as independent scientists like Massachusetts Institute of Technology's
Richard Lindzen and the University of Virginia's Fred Singer attest, the debate
over the causes of -  and potential remedies for -  "global warming" is real.

Trashing the First Amendment, as the senators seek to do, would be a heckuva way
to win the argument. And any scientists who signs on to such a course betrays a
profound lack of confidence in his or her own beliefs.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday

I'M MELTING! - WHY GLOBAL WARMING IS CHANGING THE WAY WE SKI

BYLINE: Chris Bunting

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 641 words


WITH even the Governator using biofuel in his Hummer (er, promising to,anyway)
and King of all Brainiacs Stephen Hawking warning us to flee Earthand colonize
space (or else!), global warming is becoming harder and harderto deny - even for
those who somehow couldn't bring themselves to accept itin their hearts before.

And while its victims list is well documented - from happy-footedpenguins to
Central American frogs - global warming has also caused plentyof grief for the
less beady-eyed, and more goggled: skiers.

Just look at the Alps - they've already lost at least half of their icevolume
since the 1850s, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change hasreported.

Lost annual tourism dollars are expected to be in the billions for Swissresorts
alone.

"For some reason, it is Europe that may be suffering more and it may haveto do
with the Gulf Stream being affected out in the northern and easternAtlantic,
which could have something to do with global warming," says JimRoemer,
meteorologist and president of Bestskiweather.com.

"The last thing we want to see is currents changing because it willreally throw
our climate out of whack." Ironically, changing currents havebeen a good thing
out west: snowfall is increasing in places like JacksonHole, Tahoe and Utah,
because global warming means more evaporation and,thus, more moisture in the
atmosphere.

Perhaps it's down to the fact that operators are among the first to feelthe
pinch that the ski industry is also at the forefront when it comes tocombatting
climate change.

The National Ski Areas Association (NSAA) has started integrating greenpower
into its member resorts as part of its Sustainable Slopes and KeepWinter Cool
initiative.

Such NSAA resorts operating on 288 million kilowatts or more of greenenergy
(avoiding the production of 350 million pounds of CO2 - the amountgenerated by
138,000 roundtrip flights between New York and San Francisco)include Mount
Sunapee in New Hampshire, Middlebury and Okemo in Vermont,and Maine's Shawnee
Peak.

Burke Mountain, Vt., has likewise jumped on the green wagon.

"We use bio-diesel fuel in our grooming machines, wood pellets in ourlodge's
heating stoves, working closely with Efficiency Vermont forguidance on how to be
more productive with the energy we use," marketingdirector David Gawkin
explained.

Also, Jiminy Peak in Massachusetts is finishing up construction of itswind
turbine that will power the resort - the first of its kind in theNortheast.

But the question remains: Can one ski area here and there "going green"make up
for an entire region suffering from hot flashes?

The Environmental Advocates of New York (an affiliate of the NationalWildlife
Federation) recently released a study warning that averagetemperatures in the
Northeast by the end of the century could be as much as9.8 degrees warmer in
winter.

That's really far off. What about now? Eric Friedman, marketing directorfor Mad
River Glen, in Vermont, put it succinctly: "Last year sucked."Unlike most every
other ski area in the Northeast, only 10 percent of MadRiver's snow is man-made
(they only have two snow guns). "So when it snows,they come in droves; when it
doesn't, they don't." On the other end of thespectrum is Loon Mountain, New
Hampshire, where differences in snowconditions over the last decade are less
noticeable.

"We have snowmaking on 99 percent of our trails, so we do not rely onnatural
snowfall to open," says Stacy Lopes, marketing manager.

But man-made snow - which Roemer says is sufficiently good for familieswith kids
who "aren't extreme skiers or powder hounds" - is expensive, assome smaller
resorts like Plattekill Mountain, in upstate's Delaware Countyhave discovered.

"Adding a new pump was a large chunk to chew, but had to be done - it'shard to
say that global warming hasn't had an effect," Danielle Vajtay,Plattekill's GM,
told The Post.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WAITING FOR THE SNOW: Sugarbush, Vt., in November. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday

CHOCOLATE: ANYTHING BUT VANILLA

BYLINE: CYNTHIA KILIAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 786 words


TAKE a sip, swirl it around - but for goodness sake, don't spit it out.
Chocolate may be as sophisticated and complicated as wine, but you won't want to
waste a bite.

The former land of milk, dark and white is now cocoa-nuts with crus, vintages
and cuvees. It's even given rise to "chocolate sommeliers" like Belinda Ber,
general manager at Michel Cluizel Chocolat inside ABC Carpet & Home.

"Just as you can take the same grape from the same parent plant and grow it in
two different places in the Loire Valley and it will taste different, a Criollo
cacao bean from Madagascar can taste totally different from one grown somewhere
else," Ber says.

In wine geekdom, it's called terroir, or the characteristics the land - the
soil, climate and elevation - lend to vino. Same goes for chocolate, Ber
demonstrates in tastings at the shop (the next one is Aug. 31 and costs $25).

Estate-grown cocoa beans, those from a single plantation, actually change from
year to year. Where the current La Concepcion plantation bar is earthy, "last
year it was more woody," she explains. So Cluizel also taps 25 different
plantations for cuvees, or blends of chocolate, to keep them consistently
balanced with tannin, floral and fruity notes. Just like Napa blends grapes.

Max Brenner won't reveal his cuvee recipe, except to say it's French style. But
his just-opened Chocolate by the Bald Man near Union Square has an oenophilic
nod in the vessels created for savoring his fantastic concoctions.

"There has been a very long tradition of how to drink wine, and a special glass
for white or red wine," Brenner says. He's adapted the custom in a "hug mug"
that cups the hands to pull close and breathe in single-bean cocoas from
Venezuela, or a candle-lit "suckao" for sucking a warm, thick chocolate through
a metal straw.

Timothy Moley, president of Chocolove, even goes so far as to say his "vintage"
Chocolatour bars will develop smoother and fuller flavor if aged like wine.
Store them in an airtight container in a cool, dark place. Yes, a chocolate
cellar.

For those more into eating than aging, author Dina Cheney tells how to train
your palate in her new book, "Tasting Club." Examine and sniff a piece of
chocolate. Place it on your tongue, close your eyes and let it melt for 30
seconds. Bite down and chew, noting the flavor changes. Lastly, swallow and
concentrate on the finish.

If you can be that patient.

---

How to be a chocolate snob

We've gone so cuckoo for cocoa, it takes a guide to figure it all out. How can
you tell a cuvee from a single-origin from a single-estate? Here's how to
navigate the milky ways:

COCOA CONTENT: Percentage of bar containing chocolate liquor - cocoa butter and
dry cocoa - from ground nibs. Nibs are roasted, hulled pieces of the bean.
Higher numbers mean less sweet, with more cocoa intensity.

Try it: The brand Santander offers a range of bars made from Colombian
single-origin beans (see below) in percentages from 36 (milk chocolate) to 70
(dark). Sweetriot is a new product of unground nib pieces covered in three
grades of chocolate - 50, 65 or 70 percent.

CUVEE: Chocolates made from a blend of beans from different regions or
countries. They range from refined Belgian styles to vending-machine bars. Most
chocolates are cuvees and not from a single region. Flexible cuvees generally
make for a consistent recipe from bar to bar and year to year in various flavors
and prices.

Try it: Gourmet chocolatier Scharffen Berger (owned by Hershey's) has one cuvee
called Kumasi Sambirano. The 68 percent cocoa blend mixes earthy Forastero beans
from Ghana with bright Madagascar Tinitario beans for a balanced complexity.

ESTATE-GROWN: Chocolates made with beans from a single plantation. Flavors are
the most specific, reflecting the particular farm's soil, etc., and change with
the climate from year to year. Rarer and costlier.

Try it: Michel Cluizel has a line called 1er Crus de Plantation available as
bars or tasting boxes of chocolates made exclusively from beans grown on
plantations in Venezuela, Sao Tome, Madagascar or Papua, New Guinea. The
different chocolates also have varying cocoa contents.

SINGLE-ORIGIN: Chocolate made from beans grown only in one region or country.
Because it comes from one place, the quality and characteristics of that area
come through in the chocolate. But if it's not a good year, there won't be a
chocolate from that origin. Moderate to high-priced.

Try it: Chocolatour Vintage 2005 (below) is a single-origin line from Chocolove.
The numbered bars (50,000 total) are made with beans hailing from either Sao
Tome, the Dominican Republic, Java, Tanzania or Grenada. All are dark chocolate
except the Java milk chocolate.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday

WARMING WORSE THAN TERROR: BILL

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 175 words


AUSTIN, Texas - Former President Bill Clinton said yesterday that global warming
poses a greater threat to the future than terrorism and that the United States
and other countries must "get off our butts" and do something about it.

Clinton, speaking to the graduating class at the University of Texas Lyndon B.
Johnson School of Public Affairs, said the United States must pursue policies
that make "more partners and fewer enemies" and use "institutionalized
cooperation" before there is catastrophic damage from global warming.

"Climate change is more remote than terror but a more profound threat to the
future of the children and the grandchildren and the great-grandchildren I hope
all of you have," Clinton said.

"I am not one of those who is pessimistic about the future of the world,
assuming we get off our butts and do something about climate change in a timely
fashion," he added.

The global Kyoto Protocol to curb the release of greenhouse gases was created
during Clinton's administration, but he did not adopt it.    Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BILL CLINTON  At U. of Texas yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday

'EVE' A WORLD REVEL-UTION - APPLE'S BASH IS GLOBAL SWARMING

BYLINE: HEATHER GILMORE, TOM LIDDY and ANGELA MONTEFINISE

SECTION: Sports Extra; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 551 words


The champagne and the confetti flowed freely last night as the city bid goodbye
to 2005 and hello to 2006 with a New Year's Eve celebration that drew revelers
from all over the globe to Times Square.

Nearly a million came to count down the final seconds and watch the 1,000-pound
Waterford Crystal ball drop into next year.

"It's great," said Natalie Perdomo, 23. "I'm from Venezuela, and I came here
just for this."

Marla Marshall, 25, made it to New York from another direction.

"We have nothing on this level," the Calgary, Canada, resident said.

"Usually, New Year's Eve is sitting at home - watching this," she added,
admitting that she had expected the ball "would be a lot bigger in real life."

Robert Travis, 24, and his bride, Sally, 25, were honeymooning from Manchester,
England.

"We've been here since 10 in the morning," Sally said. "It's crazy. Thank God
it's not raining."

Jonathan O'Connor had a shorter trek. The 26-year-old from Melville, Long
Island, "gladly" got to Times Square at 9 a.m. with girlfriend Susan Graham, 25.

"We've met people who got here at 6 a.m.," he said. "It's not too cold. There's
no [terror] threat. We wouldn't miss it for the world."

Neither would Lisette Muñoz, 27, of Miami.

"This is a once-in-a-lifetime experience," she said. "We've had rain, we've had
sleet, and we've had snow - we've had it all - so we're here for the long run."

Hundreds of partiers decked out in 2006 glasses, black plastic hats and loud
horns and clappers arrived at Times Square throughout the morning, afternoon and
evening, braving a light snow and temperatures that dipped to the low 30s as
midnight neared.

Even celebrities showed up for The Show.

"It's cool," said Steve Van Zandt, the former guitarist with Bruce
Spring<ho>steen's E-Street Band, who announced The Troggs as they prepared to
sing "Wild Thing."

"I love Dick Clark. He's great," said Van Zandt, better known nowadays for
hamming it up as Silvio in "The Sopranos."

The 101st annual New Year's celebration in Times Square was set to include
musical performances by the likes of Mariah Carey, Mary J. Blige, OK Go and
P.O.D. as well as hourly countdowns with Carson Daly and Regis Philbin.

Workers from the Times Square Alliance, which organized the nearly $3 million
fete, handed out 20,000 balloons, 15,000 pompoms, 15,000 earmuffs and 30,000
hats to the partygoers - and expected to drop almost a ton of confetti at the
witching hour.

"It's a lot of work, but it's fun," alliance President Tim Tompkins said. "It
takes 364 days of planning - but, in the end, it's worth it."

In addition to the group's effort, New York's Finest was out in full force -
with "several thousand" police officers keeping the peace and keeping an eye out
for anything suspicious.

Security included four checkpoints to search for alcohol - which was strictly
prohibited.

As early as 4 p.m., the NYPD's presence was already felt as cops began
patrolling the area and closing various streets between Eighth and Sixth avenues
from 42nd to 59th streets.

Bomb-sniffing dogs were guided through the party zone, and biochemical-hazard
teams and decontamination centers were on standby, just in case.

Dozens of EMS workers were also at the scene - along with 80 sanitation workers,
poised to clean up the mess after the ball.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - BUSS STOP: Frank Gomez and Jackie Mendoza of San Jose, Calif., warm
each other's lips while waiting for the New Year's Eve ball to drop. (Milton
Signman Walters) - NO SQUARES HERE: Some Times Square revelers inflated their
spirits with balloons (top), some saw in the new year with rose-colored glasses
(left), and others wore "H-h-happy" hats even as their faces read "C-c-cold."
(AFP/Getty Images) - WARM WARBLE: Fur-coated Mariah Carey serenades the chilled,
but joyous crowd of some 1 million people in Times Square last night. (Mitchell
Levy/Rangefinders/Gio) - BUSS STOP: Frank Gomez and Jackie Mendoza of San Jose,
Calif., warm each other's lips while waiting for the New Year's Eve ball to
drop. (Milton Signman Walters) - NO SQUARES HERE: Some Times Square revelers
inflated their spirits with balloons (top), some saw in the new year with
rose-colored glasses (left), and others wore "H-h-happy" hats even as their
faces read "C-c-cold." (AFP/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday

STOCK RESEARCH FIRM FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS SHUTS DOWN

BYLINE: RODDY BOYD

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 229 words


Founded with much fanfare in 2001, as the honest alternative to traditional Wall
Street research, Fulcrum Global Partners has shut its books and resigned from
the National Association of Securities Dealers.

Founded in the aftermath of New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer's global
settlement with the Street's largest investment banks, the firm's high cost
structure made it difficult to turn a profit.

Despite reams of press coverage and an initially warm reaction from
"buy"-siders, Fulcrum found that clients simply weren't willing to pay up for
premium research.

And without the massive capital base and diversity of revenue streams of the
investment banks that were still churning out free research for clients, Fulcrum
could not compete.

One former partner told The Post that his clients "loved my work. They just
didn't love my work enough to give us $50,000 a year in commissions for the
privilege of reading it."

While Fulcrum competed with the big boys for client's trades, it also competed
for talent.

That forced management to offer healthy contract guarantees, but costs ate up
revenues and capital, and management sought to restore health by bring in more
partners and their capital.

That led to a lawsuit by a former salesman who alleged Fulcrum not only misled
him on the true health of the firm, but snookered him on the fair value of his
stock.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             January 2, 2006 Monday

DISASTER WARNING - GROWING THREAT FROM VIOLENT EARTH: U.N.

BYLINE: BILL HOFFMANN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 649 words


It is the end of the world as we know it.

That's the sad song environmental experts - who fear global warming triggered
many of the cataclysmic natural disasters that struck in the past year - are now
singing.

Hurricane Katrina, which devastated New Orleans and parts of Mississippi and
Alabama - killing nearly 1,000 people - proved that the United States is as
vulnerable to natural disasters as anywhere else in the world.

A study by the United Nations, titled "The International Strategy for Disaster
Reduction," reported that the increase in natural catastrophes is due, in part,
to global warming.

It found that 254 million people were affected by natural hazards last year -
nearly three times as many as in 1990.

And last year's devastation came on the heels of the December 2004 tsunami in
southeast Asia, which killed an estimated 250,000 people.

"Not only is the world globally facing more potential disasters, but increasing
numbers of people are becoming vulnerable to hazards," the ISDR said.

ISDR director Salvano Briceno told the BBC, "The urban concentration, the
effects of climate change and the environmental degradation are greatly
increasing vulnerability. Alarmingly, this is getting worse."

In the past year, 719 recorded natural disasters were responsible for nearly
250,000 deaths.

More than 3 million people were left homeless by the Oct. 8 earthquake that
killed 73,330 people in Pakistan and at least 1,200 on the Indian side of
divided Kashmir.

Scientists say global warming has made the planet less stable by causing polar
ice caps to melt and land masses to shift.

But there are other possible reasons. One is that more people are living in
regions prone to earthquakes and flooding.

Many of the victims of Hurricane Katrina were drowned because much of New
Orleans' booming population lived below the flood plain of the Mississippi
River.

But there are those who believe the global-warming scenario is much ado about
nothing, such as meteorologist Joe Bastardi of Accuweather.com. He told The Post
this year's cycle of disasters is nothing out of the ordinary.

"Many of us said for years that New Orleans was a sitting duck. The fact of the
matter was that it was unusual that it hadn't happened there until now," he
said.

"If you look at historical weather patterns, between 1900 and 1964, the United
States in October and November was hit once every three years by a major
hurricane.

"It's simply the odds evening back out again."

He said that in South Asia, businesses continue to build resorts, despite the
threat of tsunamis and other natural disasters. "These disasters have gone on
for years, and people go right ahead and build right on the coast anyway. We
seem to forget we're tenants on the Earth - we don't own it," he said.

Bastardi added that a look at the weather history of the United States reveals
that "there have been unbelievable storms before, and they'll be unbelievable
storms again.

"What happened this year is just part of the natural cycle of the way the
weather works."

So what lies ahead?

"Based on what we've seen in studying weather patterns, next year, it looks like
a year for the Carolinas to be hit," Bastardi said.

----

DISASTER STRIKES

* 254 million people worldwide were affected by natural hazards last year.

* There were 719 recorded disasters, which caused nearly 250,000 deaths.

Hurricane Katrina Swept through Louisiana and neighboring states in August: 972
dead

Heat wave Eastern states hit hard in July: At least 37 dead

Earthquake Pakistan and India rocked in October: Estimated 75,000 dead

Food shortages Drought and locusts plague Niger in summer: Thousands dead

Monsoon Drenched India in August: 1,050 die from floods Over 5,000 suffer
cholera

Earthquake Indonesia hit in March: Around 1,300 dead

Typhoon Caused flooding and landslides in China in September: At least 129 dead
and 30 missing

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: AP, EPA, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday

GORE'S HOT AIR - FLAKY FLICK SUFFERS FROM 'TRUTH' DECAY

BYLINE: Kyle Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 733 words


AL GORE'S global-warming documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth," is sure to get an
Oscar nomination for Best Documentary, but Gore should campaign for Best Actor,
too.

Avoiding the usual vein-popping diatribes, he comes across as learned, calm and
folksy. But much of what Gore says in this slide show he gives to people whose
minds are not yet fully formed (undergraduates, actors) is absurd, and his
assertions often contradict each other.

He implies that no reputable scientists dispute anything he says - basically,
that the ice caps are melting and people on the 50th floor of the Empire State
Building had better learn to swim. But there is wide disagreement about whether
humans are causing global warming (climate change preceded the invention of the
Escalade) and about whether we should be worried about the trends. Look
carefully at Gore's charts and you'll see that the worst horrors take place in
the future of his imagination.

His implication that he is our only hope - every ticket bought for this movie
amounts to a soft-money contribution to his 2008 campaign - is ridiculous. He
and his friends were in charge for eight years. His charts say global warming
got worse in that time. The environment doesn't seem to care whether the
president is a Texas oilman or the Man from Hope.

Global warming hasn't noticed that we got the lead out of our gasoline or that
Stage One smog days in Los Angeles fell from 121 in 1977 to zero in 2004. All
regulations and taxes to date have done nothing. Does this hint that pollution
isn't the cause?

Gore claims, with pie-chart-in-the-sky dreaminess, that unspecified measures can
reduce emissions to 1970 levels. He assesses the tradeoff between the economy
and the environment with the kind of buffoonery you'd expect in a Marxist comic
book, displaying a cartoon of a scale with Earth on one side and bars of gold on
the other. "OK, on one side we have gold bars," he says. "Mmm, mmm, don't they
look good!"

Why doesn't he get specific and replace the "gold bar" side of the scale with,
say, a $50,000 tax on SUVs? The ensuing destruction of the car business would
hurt blue-collar workers, not the rich. What if global warming continued
unabated? Gore's faith-based pessimism would lead him to call for even more
taxes.

People are skeptical about global warming because it builds up to the same
chorus as every other lefty hymn: more taxes, more hypocritical scolding (the
film is the brainchild of Larry David's wife, Laurie, part of the community of
people who drive a Prius to the private plane) and especially more
America-bashing.

Gore says that America, alone, is the problem. Taking us to China, he ignores
the filth spewed into the air by its coal-fired cities. He does not meet with
bronchitic citizens who wear surgical masks outdoors and pause to hawk up brown
gunk every few minutes. Instead, he tells us America is lagging behind. "China,"
he says, "is on the cutting edge" of environmentalism. Nonsense.

Gore is a dangerous evangelist for whom all roads lead to his sole, holy
revelation. Remember how his son was injured in a car accident, the story he
told at the 1992 convention? He's still telling it, and what was once touching
has become exploitative. This time, the accident's meaning is that he wondered
whether the Earth would still be there for his son. (Never mind that earlier in
the film, he dates his eco-awakening to his Harvard years).

A sister who smoked and died of lung cancer? The lesson is that those who used
to deny that smoking caused disease were wrong, so anyone who doubts
catastrophic global warming must also be wrong.

Still not convinced that Gore's mind has only one emission? "We have to think
differently about war," he says, referring to environmental effects of weapons.
"We can't just mindlessly continue the patterns of the past." It's a chilling
statement: Even when bombs are flying, Gore promises to measure CO2 first.

The man's shamelessness is astounding when he compares himself to Churchill, but
that's not the worst of it. The final shot of Gore shows him bravely silhouetted
against the cosmos, a lone figure tenderly surveying the firmament. The job he
really wants, no recount can give him.

(p. 27 in metro)

---

AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH

[*] (One star)

The man from Hopeless.

Running time: 96 minutes Rated PG (mildly disturbing images) At the Lincoln
Square and the Sunshine

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BAD SPIN: Standing like a god in the heavens, Al Gore foresees doom for
us all in his global-warning documentary.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 21, 2006 Tuesday

PATAKI'S NEW CRITICS - MEET THE GOP GOV CANDIDATES

BYLINE: Fredric U. Dicker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 712 words


ALBANY

LAME-DUCK Gov. Pataki's record in office has come under a blistering series of
new attacks for driving out business, running up debt, fostering out-of-control
spending, encouraging corruption and failing to stem the out-migration of
hundreds of thousands of productive citizens.

And the Democrats haven't even begun to weigh in.

The furious and escalating frontal assault on the three-term Republican
governor's legacy is coming, stunningly enough, from the four Republicans
seeking to succeed him next year.

The four GOP gubernatorial hopefuls rarely if ever mention the governor's name
in their harsh assessments of New York's current political and economic climate.
Yet Pataki is still the skunk in the woodpile: Everyone knows he's there, but it
would be just too unpleasant to acknowledge.

In campaigning across the state in recent weeks, the four candidates have all
but indicted Pataki as the GOP equivalent of Mario Cuomo - often using the exact
same phrases that Pataki used in his slash-and-burn campaign against the former
liberal governor 12 years ago.

Examples? Start with former Massachusetts Gov. William Weld, a liberal
Republican who's started asserting that even he is more conservative than
Pataki:

"New York spends excessively, borrows excessively and, of course, taxes
excessively. In fact, New York is the highest taxed state in the country - worse
than our neighbor Massachusetts."

"The state's political class appears content with our predicaments. The system
is set up so that it is easier to do what's wrong for New York than it is to do
what's right for New York."

And here's how ex-Assembly Minority Leader John Faso, once a strong Pataki ally,
last week assessed New York's condition after the governor's 11-plus years:

"I'm running to restore the American dream here in New York, which is slipping
away for so many.

"Our taxes are too high and are forcing our young people to seek jobs elsewhere
. . . New York spends too much and relies on excessive borrowing and fiscal
gimmicks."

Former Secretary of State Randy Daniels, for years touted Pataki as a potential
successor, recently had these choice words about New York's economic landscape
after more than a decade of Pataki:

"We have the highest combined state and local taxes in the country, the
second-highest utility costs after Hawaii, some of the highest insurance rates,
an out-of-control worker's-compensation system . . . Is it any wonder that once
the bills are paid, many New Yorkers wonder why they have so little to show for
their hard work?"

Finally, here's the fourth GOP candidate, Dutchess County Assemblyman Patrick
Manning:

"New Yorkers have not failed. State government is failing New Yorkers."

"Our gasoline taxes are the highest in the country, yet we drive on some of the
worst roads. New York state debt has grown from $28 billion in 1995 to $48
billion today.

"We have the second-worst business climate in the United States, the chief
reason that we lag other states in job growth and economic development."

The Republican attacks make it easier to understand why the governor decided not
to seek re-election. As poll after poll last year showed, he couldn't possibly
win.

While many GOP leaders are clearly embarrassed by the attacks on Pataki's
record, they privately concede their candidates have little choice as they face
a restless electorate this year.

"We've got a big problem," confessed a leading New York Republican official.
"People are angry and they want change, so how can they possibly contend that
things are going well in New York, how can they defend the Pataki record?"

Lee Miringoff, the polling director at Marist College, said it's clear that "the
Republican candidates aren't looking to run on Pataki's legacy in 2006." Why?

"When incumbents aren't doing well, the self-preservation instinct of
politicians is sure to kick in, and that's what we see with these Republican
candidates now."

As Pataki embarks on a fantasy quest for the GOP presidential nomination, he
might well ask himself what Americans will think of a three-term governor whose
Republican would-be successors feel compelled to harshly attack his legacy.

Post State Editor Fredric U. Dicker has covered state government for more than
25 years.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pataki: Condemned in the exact same words he used on Cuomo.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 13, 2006 Friday

SPRING FLING

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 106 words


New Yorkers were absolutely giddy with an early touch of spring fever yesterday,
as temperatures climbed to 57 degrees, and meteorologists predicted this could
become the warmest New York January on record.

But folks didn't spend yesterday worrying about global warming - some took time
to enjoy the warm weather, and Gramercy Park writer Steve Santagati (right)
biked up to Midtown to meet Lauren Pacchiano on Sixth Avenue.

"I just got back from Miami on Monday and I have been wearing shorts ever
since," he said.

---

TODAY: Mild, partly cloudy 56°

TOMORROW: Tapering rain 52°

SUNDAY: Windy, snow 37°

MONDAY: Partly sunny, brisk 44°

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -A sunbather takes time to reflect in Bryant Park yesterday. [AP]
-Steve Santagati (right) and Lauren Pacchiano [N.Y. Post: Dan Brinzac] -A
sunbather takes time to reflect in Bryant Park yesterday. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

PEPPERS ON FIRE

BYLINE: DAN AQUILANTE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 432 words


NEVER have the Chili Peppers been this red hot.

The little Southern California alt-rock band that made its mark with the
groundbreaking "Blood Sugar Sex Magik" back in '91 - and has struggled with
relevance since releasing the 1999 blockbuster "Californication" - is currently
the most popular band on Earth.

No kidding.

As of the June 17 charts, the quartet's double disc, "Stadium Arcadium,"
released just four weeks ago, has secured a top 10 spot in virtually every
country where sales records are kept.

RHCP nowown the No. 1 album slots in Germany, Greece, Australia and Switzerland;
the boys are No. 2 in the United Kingdom, Canada, Italy, Mexico and Hungary. And
they rank among the top 10 charting acts in Japan, France, Spain, Finland and
Poland - to name a few.

Even in Wallonia, the Walloons have anointed the Chili Peppers with the No. 3
spot on the charts - the same position they currently enjoy here in the United
States.

Classic-rock radio station Q104.3's Maria Milito explains the phenomenon two
ways.

"The Chili Peppers are an ageless band, and because they're ageless, they make
their audience feel the same way. They're able to attract an intergenerational
audience here and in Europe," she says. "You could see that when they played
their warm-up show at Irving Plaza [in May]: They're still young, hip and a
little crazy - people love that." The DJ also offers the notion that the band's
trademark brand of funk has global appeal. "You don't need to understand the
words to feel the groove - funk is international," Milito says emphatically.

To understand just how astounding the RHCP's feat of global domination is, look
at Pearl Jam, which released its self-titled disc a week before the RHCP's new
album to much fanfare.

It was hailed as one of the most anticipated records of the summer, and in five
weeks it has managed to slip from its peak position of No. 2 on Billboards' top
200 Chart, to No. 22 here in America as of Saturday.

As for the rest of the world, Eddie Vedder and his band only snagged spots on
the top 10 in Mexico, where they're sitting in the middle at No. 5 and are
holding on by a thread in the No. 10 slot Down Under.

Among the most surprising acts on the international scene is Bruce Springsteen,
who ranks No. 28 on the charts here in the U.S.A. with his 6-week-old "We Shall
Overcome" CD.

Even though Bruce's record has gone gold here (sales that neither Pearl Jam or
the Chili Peppers have yet matched), and he's packing Madison Square Garden
Thursday night with a sold-out gig, Springsteen is conspicuously absent on the
international charts.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anthony Kiedis (left) and Flea are rocking the charts from here to
Wallonia, making the Red Hot Chili Peppers the most popular band on the planet.
[Joao Relvas / EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday

GET DOWN AND OUT - A MAD MUSIC WEEKEND UNDER SUN AND STARS

BYLINE: MARY HUHN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 673 words


'OF course it will be wonderful," says Walter Kuhr, referring to the first Main
Squeeze Accordion Festival being held tomorrow uptown at Pier 1 on the Hudson
River.

As the show's curator, Kuhr, celebrating the 10-year anniversary of his Lower
East Side accordion shop, Main Squeeze, has put together a wild and global mix
of accordion players - from Mexican Nortena to Irish Folk.

"The variety couldn't be bigger," Kuhr says excitedly.

The variety also couldn't be more eclectic for all the outdoor shows going on
this weekend - from the indie rock acts kicking off the weekly concerts at
McCarren Park Public Pool in Williamsburg to the summerlong dance party at P.S.
1/MoMA in Long Island City.

Here's your guide to getting the party started.

*  Riverside Park South's N.Y.C.

Main Squeeze Accordion Festival Today, 2 to 9 p.m.; Pier 1 on the Hudson River
at 70th Street; (212) 408-0219 or 311,

free If Mama has a squeeze box, she should bring it to this lively global
festival today, as masters of the accordions from around the world display
traditional and contemporary music to go with the accordion flea market - yeah,
you read that right - food and dancing.

"Now that the accordion has become popular, it attracts a different audience,"
says Kuhr, who leads a 15-piece all-female Main Squeeze Orchestra. "It attracts
old accordion aficionados and young people." Performers include Guy Klucevsek;
Proyeccion Norteña, Ernestidio y Su Conjunto; the Balkan Brothers: Seido
Salifoski & Ismail Butera; Jesse Lege & Bayou Brew; the Phoebe Legere Experience
and the John Nolan Trio.

Bonus: Bring your own accordion and join the 8:30 p.m.

group squeeze.

*  Warm Up 2006 at P.S. 1 Today, 3-9 p.m.; P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center; 22-25
Jackson Ave., Long Island City; (718) 784-2084, ps1.org; $10 The summerlong
dance party at P.S. 1 courtyard hits its ninth year and grooves under the Queens
skyline every Saturday through Labor Day. Today features DJs the Idjut Boys of
London and New Yorker Phil South from No Ordinary Monkeys fame.

*   JellyNYC Pool Parties at McCarren Park Public Pool Tomorrow, 2- 8 p.m.;
Lorimer Street between Bayard Street and Driggs Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn;
thepoolparties.com; free What's a pool party without any water? This isn't a
riddle; it's the renovated McCarren Park Public Pool in Williamsburg, which will
house concerts that might have found their way to Irving Plaza if it weren't for
this great outdoor space.

This weekend, however, inaugurates JellyNYC's Sunday concerts featuring bands
and DJs, with performances continuing through Sept. 3.

Bring a swimsuit, so you can slip and slide to live music by indie rock acts Les
Savy Fav, Beans with Holy F- - -, Dragons of Zynth and Proton Proton, as well as
DJ Finger on the Pulse.

You can also avoid getting whacked in a dodge ball game, or just relax poolside
and have a brew and burger - and not worry about getting splashed.

*   Hakim, the Lion of Egypt and his Egyptian at Central Park SummerStage Today,
3-6 p.m.; Rumsey Playfield, enter Central Park on Fifth Avenue at 72nd Street;
(212) 360-2777, summerstage.org; free Sha'bi is the homegrown music of Egypt's
working class, and Hakim, known as "The Lion of Egypt," knows how to deliver it,
as one of the first artists to put electric guitars and synthesizers in the mix
and gradually bring a little more soul to the sound, as well.

He's sort of like the Dylan of sha'bi.

The Middle Eastern pop star will be joined by New York's own up-andcoming R&B
teen sensation Karina Pasian.

*   Toshi Reagon & BigLovely at Celebrate Brooklyn at Prospect Park Bandshell
Today, 7:30 p.m.; Prospect Park West at Ninth Street, Park Slope; (718)
855-7882, celebratebrooklyn.org; free Singer/songwriter Toshi Reagon, whose
roots go back to the '60s folk movement, brings her big voice and her BigLovely
band and her mother, Bernice Johnson Reagon, the founder of Sweet Honey in the
Rock to this under-the-stars Brooklyn gig.

JUCA, led by BigLovely member, vocalist and guitarist Judith Casselberry, opens.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Main Squeeze Accordion Festival; tomorrow Les Savy Fav get fab at
McCarren Park Pool. (Getty Images) - TUNE OUT: The lovely ladies of the Main
Squeeze Orchestra (far left) gather around accordion Svengali Walter Kuhr. Beans
(left) plays the McCarren Pool party, which is cool. But it's not cool Beans.
(Charles Lavoie) - AL FRESCO FROLIC: Proyeccion Norteña (inset, far left) gets
Welk-ian at today's Main Squeeze Accordion Festival; tomorrow Les Savy Fav get
fab at McCarren Park Pool. (Getty Images) - TUNE OUT: The lovely ladies of the
Main Squeeze Orchestra (far left) gather around accordion Svengali Walter Kuhr.
Beans (left) plays the McCarren Pool party, which is cool. But it's not cool
Beans. (Charles Lavoie)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

LEGENDS SPEAK - NARCISO RODRIGUEZ GETS A CHANCE TO SHOW SOME LOVE TO ISABEL AND
RUBEN TOLEDO

BYLINE: SANDRA GUZMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 1503 words


Conversations with Latino Legends is the first in a series of exchanges that
will run inside the pages of Tempo. Each installment will bring together young
legends and the icons who inspired them.

IDOL CHAT

WHEN offered the opportunity to launch the first installment of Tempo's
Conversations with Latin Legends, Narciso Rodriguez agreed, but only if he could
sit down with young style icon Isabel Toledo and her husband and partner,
fashion illustrator Ruben.

The Toledos -  their extraordinary work and 22-year love story-  certainly are
the stuff of legend. They met in middle school, in New Jersey, as 13-year-olds.
Ruben says: "Isabel walked into my Spanish class and I saw a vision, a goddess
and my future wife."

In fashion circles, Isabel is worshiped. She is known as a designer's designer.
She is considered by many the one of the world's master jersey stylists. Each of
her pieces is a work of art.

While Ruben is often called the greatest contemporary fashion illustrator living
today. In fact, in fashion art, he created what is known as the Ruben Toledo
style. His look books quickly become collector's items.

The couple won the Cooper Hewitt National Design Award in Fashion in 2005.

Narciso Rodriguez is one of the most revered designers today. He is respected in
the industry and adored by the women who wear his creations, those who walk the
red carpets and the streets of fashionable cities around the globe.

He is the first designer in history to receive the Women's Wear Designer of the
Year award by the Council of Fashion Designers of America two years in a row, in
2002 and 2003.

Narciso is known for his refined tailoring, beautiful design and craftsmanship.

The three artists are Cuban -  Isabel was born on the island and left with her
family after Castro took over. Ruben was also born in Cuba. Narciso was born in
Newark, New Jersey, and raised in Kearny, a fact that makes him no less cubano.

Cuba -  the island's colors, rhythms, magic, beauty, humor, politics and
experience of exile filters into the fashions created by these three gifted
artists. It's not necessarily apparent to the naked eye, but it lives there -
comfortably and beautifully -  in Narciso and Isabel's exquisite clothing and in
Ruben's sophisticated and whimsical illustrations.

Days before the launch of their spring collections, Narciso took a break from
the frenzy and invited the Toledos into his Gramercy Park studio.

This is the historic exchange that took place on that warm September morning. As
Narciso and Isabel chatted, Ruben sketched the results you see on the cover and
in these pages.

THE JOY OF THE CRAFT

ISABEL

My work is about contrast, I am always trying to find a balance. Maybe it was
because I came from a small town in Cuba that did not have tall buildings. And,
when I came here, there were these giant, enormous structures. Also balance,
because with my clothing I want to protect women, empower them. I want them to
feel sensual, but above all, to protect them.

NARS

Wow. I never thought about that, but my work is, too, about balance and
contrast. (Maybe it's the Cuban thing!) The constant urge to find balance and
symmetry. That is why I love to do what I do -  the craft of it. To create, to
build. It's the part that is the most exciting for me. At this stage, when we
are done with the sketching, drawing, cutting, stitching and I have to hand it
over to the other stage, the marketing, advertising, the show, that's the part
that makes me sad. To let go after spending so much time creating a collection
is difficult. You live with the ideas for so long that they become a part of
you.

Like a lover . . . or better!

ISABEL

Yeah, its what makes what we do not seem like work. You know, I decided not to
have fashion shows in 1999. I just stopped. I felt that the fashion world had
lost its intimacy. And I want women to have a fresh experience with my clothes
so that when they see my pieces for the first time, it isn't on the runway or a
magazine, but up close. To discover it for the first time. I wanted no one to
come between that experience. The relationship between women and fashion is very
intimate, and, I guess, spiritual and I wanted to bring that back.

NARS

You know, Isabel, I never told you this but when I go to Barneys and I see your
pieces on the floor, I am compelled to take them and turn them inside out and
see the construction, the fierce beauty of your work. You are a genius. There
are very few designers today that possess the skill, precision, refinement and
workmanship that you have. You continue to inspire me, raise the bar on cut and
creativity, as well as be the "designers designer." You are, simply put, the
best!

ISABEL

And you, too, Narciso. You can tell that you love the craft.

NARS

I remember when I was starting out, in fashion circles there was this legend,
the Legend of Isabel. And I heard you were Cuban, and I remember knowing about
you and the work before I ever met you. People who know fashion, know your
talent. The way you work with fabrics, with jersey . . . No one since Madame
Gres has done it better than you. You are the master.

CUBA ON MY MIND

NARS

I was not born in Cuba, but Cuba lives in me. It's those nostalgic stories of my
parents and my godparents. The food, the dancing, the humor. Cuba is in my work,
but it's not obvious. It's not on purpose. It is what I am.

I remember my best friend's parents, they would dress with such incredible style
and pride in themselves. He in a three-piece suit, she in the only evening dress
she had. I remember it was black lace, very tight, hugging her Cuban body, a
Latina body -  big breasts, big caderas, and hips. Emma was her name, she and
her husband used to go out dancing every week. She used to wear all her
beautiful jewelry with that lace flamenco dress, high pumps, her flawless
makeup, exactly, bella. Sexy, sure of herself.

I always remember Nana Concha, too, the family matriarch. I think that she was
one of my first muses. I wanted to create clothes for Concha when I was a little
boy. She would come to the house in her Chanel-like suits and be so poised and
chic! Bigger than life. Perfumed and lovely and as loud as any good Cuban could
be . . . [laughs]

NARS

Oh, and Emma and her husband, they danced so well together. You can tell so much
about a couple by the way that they dance. Like you two. You can see your
beautiful fairytale love story on the dance floor

ISABEL

We love to dance. It's such a beautiful, fun magical thing to do with your
lover.

LIVING IN EXILE

NARS

For us, life was not easy. There was discrimination. I was in the fourth grade
and went to play with a white friend at his house. His dad asked me my name, and
then told me to get the f- - - out of his house. Actually, he said, "I don't
want spics in my house." Then he beat up my friend for bringing "spics" to his
house. I was horrified.

ISABEL

Ay dios mio, que horrible. I never experienced racism like that. We lived in a
very Cuban world. I guess we were in a Cuban cocoon. My older sister never felt
like she fit in here, though, and her love of the Hispanic Caribbean culture
took her to Puerto Rico where she still lives today. But growing up, I did feel
welcomed here. Actually one of my first friends in this country was real
hardcore Italian. Her name was Joanne, and how I knew we were different
culturally was the difference in our dinnertime, 5 p.m. versus 8 p.m.! At 5
p.m., promptly, she was called upstairs to eat.

ON PARENTAL SACRIFICE

NARS

My father said to me that when I realized my dream, I realized his as well. The
sacrifice was courageous. They say they are proud of me, but I am so much more
proud of them. They left a country so young, left behind family, a land, and
came into this new country, where they did not even speak the language.

And worked so hard. I remember my father getting up at 4 and 5 a.m., going to
work as a longshoreman. He came home late. Tired. But he never lost his sense of
humor. His love of familia, his sweetness, his kindness, his generous spirit.

They left so young, too. And the incredible thing is that when they left, they
said they did so for the future of their children, for the children they would
not have for another seven years. Now that's sacrifice and that, in my book, is
success. I am not sure that I could do that. To leave New York and go somewhere
else, a strange new place that will not be welcoming, where they would suffer
huge indignities.

ISABEL

I was lucky to see the work ethic of my parents up close. In Cuba, mom and dad
always worked together. I come from a ferreteria (hardware store) background -
which is where my parents met and fell in love. It must be in my blood, my love
for the mechanical side of fashion.

- Narciso Rodriguez www.narcisorodriguez.com <http://www.narcisorodriguez.com>

- Isabel Toledo's collection available at Barneys is always accompanied by
Ruben's artwork.

Barneys 660 Madison Ave. between 60th and 61st streets, (212) 826-8900.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: - An Isabel Toledo silk chiffon apron dress from her 1994 Spring
collection is both sensual and playful. (Courtesy of Toledo Studio) - Narcisco
Rodriguez and his idol, Isabel Toledo, at an El Museo del Barrio gala. (Joe
Schidhorn/PMc) - Ruben Toledo brilliantly captures wife Isabel's flirty, sexy
Spring 2007 line, which showcases her exquisite use of cut, fabric and color.  -
Narcisco is the darling of the hip, socialite Hollywood jet-set. Seen here last
year with fan Jessica Seinfeld. (Wireimage) - Narcisco's Fall 2006 line offered
monochromatic beauties.  - "The dress" that Carolyn Bessette wore in the wedding
of the century made Nars a global star. (AP Photo/Copyright 1996, Denis Reggie)
- The fierce and fabulous cubanos Isabel and Ruben Toledo are a marriage of love
and  art. The wickedly sensual Isabelian cuts match Ruben's deft illustrations.
(Ruben Toledo) - Illustrations By RUBEN TOLEDO - An Isabel Toledo silk chiffon
apron dress from her 1994 Spring collection is both sensual and playful.
(Courtesy of Toledo Studio) - Narcisco Rodriguez and his idol, Isabel Toledo, at
an El Museo del Barrio gala. (Joe Schidhorn/PMc) - Ruben Toledo brilliantly
captures wife Isabel's flirty, sexy Spring 2007 line, which showcases her
exquisite use of cut, fabric and color.  - Narcisco is the darling of the hip,
socialite Hollywood jet-set. Seen here last year with fan Jessica Seinfeld.
(Wireimage) - Narcisco's Fall 2006 line offered monochromatic beauties.  - "The
dress" that Carolyn Bessette wore in the wedding of the century made Nars a
global star. (AP Photo/Copyright 1996, Denis Reggie) - The fierce and fabulous
cubanos Isabel and Ruben Toledo are a marriage of love and  art. The wickedly
sensual Isabelian cuts match Ruben's deft illustrations. (Ruben Toledo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 25, 2006 Monday

INGREDIENTS FOR SUCCESS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 763 words


Like high-powered trophy stoves in well-to-do homes, food magazines often seem
to feed the eye more than the stomach. This crop of cooking magazines, though,
try hard to provide easy to make recipes for the time-pressed.

Cooking Light is filled with warm, earthy dishes like potpies, stuffed baked
potatoes and fruit turnovers. The magazine is so packed with tips on nutrients
and eating right that even the most well-fed among us would start to feel
malnourished. Take the story on lycopene. The antioxidant has been found to
reduce the risk of certain cancers, so naturally, anyone would want to eat the
30 milligrams a day needed to enjoy its full benefits. Tomatoes are packed with
them, so a plate of your favorite pasta dish a day would cover you -  or three
Bloody Marys.

Martha Stewart's Everyday Food may be small in size, but it packs a punch, with
plentiful recipes and useful tips. A favorite: a shopping list for one visit to
the market designed to provide enough food for dinner for the family for a week.
Most of the recipes in the user-friendly mag call for a half-dozen ingredients
or less, making even the cooking-challenged feel they have a shot at making the
dishes come out right.

"Oh look! That's where he keeps his bread. And over there, do you see his eggs?"
Ever wonder what actor Denise Quaid keeps in his fridge? Neither do we. As much
as we like "Rach," her fake-it, don't-bake-it approach to food doesn't make for
the most interesting reading in Every Day With Rachael Ray. Sandwiched between
page after page of recipes, shots of a smiling Rachael chopping veggies begin to
look like nothing more than filler. Worse, you have to question whether TV's
latest talk show star is letting fame go to her head when the mag runs shots of
her chilling at home with rocker Rob Thomas and his model wife.

The New Yorker believes the ever-expanding coverage of food is akin to porn. A
piece by Bill Buford questions why so many Americans are riveted to TV food
shows while being totally ignorant of food -  and what goes into it. The piece
points out that the Food Network's hottest star, the aforementioned Rachael Ray,
isn't even a chef. Another story visits one of the world's last untapped hoard
of diamonds and other gems lying just beneath the surface on the island of
Madagascar. Precious stones are abundant for the taking, and fortune hunters are
turning the island into a Wild West, with "murder, claim-jumping, sex, violence,
scandal, corruption."

The second necessity of life -  shelter -  is causing lots of worry as the
housing bubble slowly deflates. New York's cover story offers ways to navigate
the declining real estate market, and provides a guide to the best deals in
what's become a buyer's and renter's market. Elsewhere, a profile on rising pol
Barack Obama, the senator from Illinois, lays out his odds of becoming the
nation's first post-baby boom president. Another piece delves into the prospects
of a subway series between the Mets and Yankees, and says that whoever cheers
the loudest may swing the decision. An item in Intelligencer says Bloomberg LP,
the media company, is mired in more discrimination suits from employees who had
babies. Three top execs, Jill Patricot, Tanys Lancaster and Monica Prestia,
claim in lawsuits they were harassed, demoted and discriminated against upon
their return from maternity leave.

Time brings home war's smaller horrors with a cover story by correspondent
Michael Weisskopf on his ordeal of losing a hand while covering the fighting in
Iraq. The cover, showing a close-up of his prosthetic, is titled "How I Lost My
Hand But Found Myself." Elsewhere, the mag interviews Venezuelan President Hugo
Chavez to learn how serious he is about being a global Johnny Appleseed of anti-
Americanism. On the political front, Time says that while Iraq burns,
politicians change the subject to almost anything but that. It also offers a
special report on the mysterious deaths of California sea otters.

Newsweek's cover takes a breather from global despair, offering a package on
celebrity photographer Annie Leibovitz, with 18 pages of photos. It includes
intimate looks at her relationship with the late Susan Sontag. Back on topic,
Newsweek interviews the presidents of Iraq and Iran, which underscores a
deepening impasse in solving their respective problems. In the ongoing
terrorist-torture controversy, Newsweek says as many as 20 CIA officials and
contractors could face legal problems in Germany for their capture and torture
of a Canadian citizen wrongly suspected of being a terrorist.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday

AL GORE'S SOILED 'TRUTH'

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 167 words


THE DVD for Al Gore's global warming jeremiad, "An Inconvenient Truth," is being
sent out in a disgusting-looking piece of ragged, speckled cardboard that seems
like it recently passed through the entire digestive system of a large animal.
"I didn't want to touch it without tweezers," said one critic, "but, curious, I
opened up the package to find this note: 'Don't Throw This Mailer Away . . .
Plant It and Grow Basil! The mailer you are holding is handmade from natural,
recycled and biodegradable materials. The seeds inside the paper will grow into
Italian Flat Leafed Basil when planted. Tear the mailer into smaller pieces and
soak the pieces in water for about 1/2 an hour. Cover the pieces with 1/4 inch
of fine soil, indoors in a pot. Keep the soil warm and moist until the seeds
germinate in approximately 3 weeks. The paper will recycle into the soil as the
seeds burst into tasty Basil!' " "Now we know what eco-liberalism is really
about," laughed our source. "More basil for their salads!"

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 3, 2006 Friday

GORE: GREENS PLAN BIG AD SPEND

BYLINE: HOLLY M. SANDERS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 260 words


ORLANDO - Former Vice President and wannabe media mogul Al Gore is hitting up
Madison Avenue for help on a major ad blitz aimed at fighting global warming.

Speaking to a room of advertising and media executives, Gore announced yesterday
that a coalition of environmental, labor and religious groups will launch a
three-year campaign to warn the U.S. public about the "climate crisis."

"Mother nature is knocking on our door," said Gore, who delivered the keynote
speech at an annual media gathering.

Since losing his White House bid in that same state, Gore has been trying to
reinvent himself as a media mogul and the chairman of Current TV, a network he
launched to target the under-30 crowd.

As part of his pitch to Madison Avenue, Gore called on the industry to publicize
the dangers of global warming and he challenged it to match the forthcoming
campaign "dollar for dollar."

He said the members of the coalition, which would be revealed next month, would
be making "significant ad buys" in each of the next three years, although he
didn't provide a dollar amount.

Gore, who also championed environmental issues when he was in office, portrayed
global warming as a dire threat that was already wreaking havoc on a global
scale.

Armed with slides and statistics, he argued that increasing levels of carbon
monoxide are raising the planet's temperature, causing glaciers and the polar
ice caps to melt.

He blamed the trend for record high temperatures and a growing number of violent
storms - notably, the devastation Katrina wrought on New Orleans.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AL GORE Green machine.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

A NEW SCHOOL FEAR

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 630 words


BUSING has come to Gotham. Or, at least, forced integration - along cultural, if
not racial, lines. And any parent who cares about his kid has a right to be
concerned.

It all started with the Department of Ed's push to place small "schools" in
buildings with existing schools. True, the main motive is to save space. But
cross-pollination is inevitable.

In one building Downtown, officials want a charter school to cohabit with an
existing "gifted and talented" K-12 called New Explorations Into Science,
Technology and Math.

That's caused a mini-revolt.

NEST's principal, Celenia Chevere, is accused of staging deceptions to foil the
move. She denies it, but even if true, her alleged actions (creating a ruse, for
instance, to make her school seem more crowded) hardly compare with the
stone-throwing, death threats and other acts of violence that surrounded busing
and desegregation 30-plus years ago.

In fact, her motives, and those of similarly outraged parents, do have something
in common with '70s protesters: They care about their kids. And that's
admirable.

Back then, particularly in Boston (where a federal judge ordered schools
integrated), enraged whites railed against having their kids mix with blacks.
Racial bigotry played a big role - but as misguided, un-American and morally
repugnant as that was, the deepest force was nonetheless understandable: They
believed their kids' welfare, education and very futures were linked to their
schools' culture.

For a century, that belief sustained "separate but equal" education, and in a
broader sense, segregation and racism throughout much of social life. Such
practices were indefensible, but there is evidence of such a link.

James Coleman's seminal 1966 work "Equality of Educational Opportunity" showed a
strong connection between a school's social makeup and educational achievement.

That study helped spark forced integration - yet Coleman had said it was class,
not race, that mattered. Lower-income kids achieve more when taught alongside a
majority of middle-class kids.

Why does class matter? Coleman cited many factors: Better-off kids are more
likely to have higher goals; lower-class kids are affected by that. Teacher'
expectations are higher. Middle-class kids bring knowledge from home (e.g.,
vocabulary), which rubs off on other kids.

Coleman also found that mixing lower-class blacks with lower-class whites yeilds
no gains. Yet most forced-desegregation drives failed to distinguish between
race and class. Plus, whites fled, leaving schools less integrated. The whole
experiment proved a disaster.

NEST parents say the charter will cause overcrowding. But it's no stretch to
think their real fear is a change in the school's social climate.

Again, these are parents who care about their kids. They chose the school (and
sunk their own cash into it) based in part on its cultural makeup. Because it's
a "gifted and talented" school, kids are exposed to others who excel
academically. Expectations are high, discipline less a problem.

In fact, Coleman found that the middle-income kids - so long as they remain the
majority - are not harmed by lower-income peers. And the 300 to be moved into
NEST would likely only be about 30 percent of the building's population, not a
majority.

But parents are still right to worry. Can a city administration (which will
change completely in 2009) be trusted to keep that ratio? How can parents of,
say, a kindergartner be sure the balance won't "tip" when the child reaches high
school?

It's true that the charter kids have a right to a good education. But the city
needs to protect superior schools like NEST, so middle-class parents don't need
to scurry off to the suburbs.

Absent ironclad assurances, NEST parents have good cause to be skeptical.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday

WEATHER WILLIES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 310 words


Everybody knows that global warming causes cancer, kills puppies and drives
madmen to attack subway riders with power saws.

It snarls rush-hour traffic and breaks up happy homes. In fact, it's even more
dangerous than (gasp!) second-hand smoke.

Al Gore says so. Check it out.

Global warming is a dark cloud (probably filled with acid rain) hovering over
our heads, ready to blot out humanity at any moment. And just when you think it
can't possibly get any worse, scientists discover another alarming "fact."

That's right, chalk up another nightly news staple to accumulating greenhouse
gases: wildfires.

A new study suggests that higher temperatures in the western U.S. account for
larger, more intense seasonal conflagrations -  seriously inconveniencing
rattlesnakes and jackrabbits, and pushing World Cup soccer highlights to the
back of the evening news.

Hotter weather means that the shrubbery dries out more quickly, and stays dry
longer, than otherwise might be the case -  making it more likely that fires
will start.

Basically, the scientists say, driving your car over the George Washington
Bridge makes it marginally more likely that a wildfire in Arizona will carbonize
a few more cacti.

But aren't wildfires an important part of the ecological balance? Don't many
species of scrub flora depend on periodic burnoffs to reproduce?

Answer: Yes, on both counts.

It's also true that, 10,000 years ago, the island of Manhattan was under a mile
of glacial ice -  and that 10,000 years in the future, it may well be again.

Climate, like stuff, happens.

And while it is likely that the planet is getting warmer these days, it's not at
all clear why that's so. Less clear is what can be done about it -  even if
human activity is a significant causal factor.

Need to worry about something?

Keep an eye out for subway-saw psychos. They're real.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 22, 2006 Friday

A 'COOL' $3 BILLION - BRANSON BUCKS TO FIGHT GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 275 words


Saving the Earth was the main agenda item at President Clinton's
world-betterment conference yesterday, with Virgin Airlines founder Richard
Branson pledging $3 billion to fight global warming and Al Gore warning of a
full-scale planetary emergency.

Branson, a British business tycoon, said the entire pledge - which would cover
10 years - will come from profits from his airline and train companies, and will
be invested in renewable energy development.

"Our generation has inherited an incredibly beautiful world from our parents and
they from their parents," the laid-back billionaire said at a press conference
at the Sheraton New York in Midtown with the former president, kicking off the
second day of the Clinton Global Initiative.

"We must not be the generation responsible for irreversibly damaging the
environment. We must hand it over to our children in as near-pristine a
condition as we were lent it from our parents."

Branson said he decided to make his move after he met with Gore, who has been
promoting awareness about environmental concerns.

At a panel talk on the environment, Gore warned of dire consequences facing the
world if the global-warming trend isn't reversed.

"We've allowed ourselves to adopt a philosophy of short-term thinking that
somehow we think absolves us of future consequences of present actions," Gore
said.

"The United States has to get on the road to solving the climate crisis as a
leader of this effort."

Calling the United States "still the one nation best able to lead the world in
resolving the issue," Gore said such a move would prompt other countries to
follow suit.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIRGIN TERRITORY: Billionaire Richard Branson hands Bill Clinton a $3
billion pledge yesterday.  [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: David Seifman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 140 words


Global warming may be Al Gore's gig, but it played a major role yesterdayin the
mayor's speech on the future of the city.

While Hizzoner said he wasn't about to pass up a 50-degree day inDecember, the
mayor warned that higher temperatures pose serious risks fora coastal city such
as New York.

"The increase of greenhouse gases in our air is not only liftingtemperatures, it
may also be contributing to our rising sea level," hesaid.

"That means when major storms hit in the future, the resulting floodingcould be
worse than anything we've seen."

Bloomberg's view was backed by Cynthia Rosenzweig, a research scientistat
Columbia University who said a change of a single degree in averagetemperatures
could have far-reaching effects.

From 1950 to today, officials said, the average summer temperature herehas
increased from about 68 to 70.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday

'THIS IS A CHILD OF DEMOCRACY STRUGGLING TO BE BORN'

BYLINE: DEBORAH ORIN Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 735 words


WASHINGTON - British Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday said Iraq is a "child
of democracy struggling to be born" - and pleaded with the world to help.

"The war, I know, split the world. The struggle of Iraqis for democracy should
unite it," Blair said in a commencement speech at Georgetown University.

"This is a child of democracy struggling to be born," said Blair, and Iraq's new
leaders and the international community "are the midwives."

The prime minister went to Iraq this week to meet its new unity government.

Blair spoke on the day after he and President Bush held a joint news conference
where they admitted mistakes in Iraq - but held out strong hope for its future
and its new democratic government.

"Despite setbacks and missteps, I strongly believe we did and are doing the
right thing," Bush said as they faced the press together on Thursday night.

The two men have visibly aged since Saddam was toppled three years ago and both
have paid a big price in the polls.

But their friendship and belief in Iraq appear to be intact.

After his speech, Blair went back to the White House to meet again with Bush.

They strolled along a colonnade so photographers had plenty of time to snap them
together.

The two leaders also released a statement underscoring the "special
relationship" between Britain and America - and between Bush and Blair - by
deepening military and intelligence ties.

In a show of support for Blair, Bush agreed in principle to grant Britain access
to sensitive U.S. technology on the massive $250 billion joint strike fighter
program.

"The United States has no closer ally than the United Kingdom. U.S. and U.K.
forces are fighting terror in Afghanistan, Iraq and around the world," Bush and
Blair said in a joint statement.

But for the day, it appeared that Bush had left it to Blair - a more eloquent
speaker - to defend the Iraq war and chart the course forward.

Blair told a crowd of 800 students that "We can argue forever" about whether he
and Bush were right to topple Saddam Hussein.

"You may not agree with the original decision. You may believe mistakes have
been made. You may even think: How can it be worth the sacrifice?" he said.

"But surely we must all accept this is a genuine attempt to run the race of
liberty."

Blair acknowledged that the three years since Saddam's fall have been "three
years of strife and bloodshed" but said that time has also brought the
"remarkable" birth of democracy in Iraq.

He said Iraq's new leaders - a mix of Shia, Sunni, Kurds and other religions -
don't speak "the jarring messages of warring factions" but instead the united
message of men with a vision.

"These are not stooges. Or placemen. They believe in their country. They believe
in its capacity to be democratic. They are fighting a struggle against the odds
but they are fighting it," he said.

"Tell me where their vision differs from ours - except that ours is based in
experience and theirs in hope."

Blair echoed Bush's oft-repeated dream that if Iraq can be made democratic, it
can echo across the Middle East and deal a severe blow to terrorism.

He told of talking to new Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in his office -
once the dining room of one of Saddam's brutal sons - and how Maliki told him:
"If we can change Iraq, we can change this region and the world."

But Blair said more work is needed to deal with other Mideast conflicts,
including the Israeli-Palestinian dispute and Iran's nuclear program.

"I don't believe we will be secure unless Iran changes," the British prime
minister said.

Blair - who has prodded Bush to press for Israeli-Palestinian negotiations -
said the international community would be "hugely empowered" in the Arab world
by creation of a Palestinian state.

"This is a dispute which casts a shadow over all attempts at reconciliation.
Under its cover, global terrorism recruits," he said.

The White House also announced that Canada's new prime minister, popular
Conservative Stephen Harper, will visit the White House on July 6.

He and Bush quickly forged warm ties - in contrast to the chilly relations
between Bush and Canada's prior Liberal Party leaders who opposed the Iraq war
and, in some cases, openly ridiculed Bush.

Australian Prime Minister John Howard, another Iraq war ally and Bush friend,
recently went from Washington to Canada where he hailed America's role as a
leader of the world.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -TONY THE TIGER: British PM Tony Blair at Georgetown yesterday, where
he fiercely defended the Iraq war. "Surely we must all accept this is a genuine
attempt to run the race of liberty," he said.  [Reuters] -GET THE POINT: Voter's
inky finger is an icon of Iraqi democracy.  [Zuma Press] -TONY THE TIGER:
British PM Tony Blair at Georgetown yesterday, where he fiercely defended the
Iraq war. "Surely we must all accept this is a genuine attempt to run the race
of liberty," he said.  [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday

HILL SETS STAGE FOR '08 - DEM TALK LOOKS BEYOND RE-ELEX

BYLINE: KENNETH LOVETT Post Correspondent

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 545 words


BUFFALO - Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton officially kicked off her re-election bid
yesterday, delivering a fiery speech with national themes that supporters
acknowledged was geared as much toward a possible 2008 presidential bid as her
race in New York.

"I believe we need a fundamentally new direction and we need to work toward
solutions that help us meet our 21st-century challenges of expanding our
economy, defending our security and preserving our values," Clinton said.

She spoke before a wildly enthusiastic crowd at the state Democratic convention
after delegates made her their party's designee for Senate.

Clinton's name was placed into nomination yesterday by Sen. Charles Schumer, who
called her "a great national leader" in the footsteps of Sens. Robert F. Kennedy
and Daniel Patrick Moynihan.

With her husband, former President Bill Clinton, watching proudly, the
first-term senator repeatedly urged delegates to "stand with me" as she blasted
the Bush administration and Republicans.

"It's an environment where it's more important to say 'mission accomplished'
than actually accomplish the mission," she said during her 33-minute address.

"We all need to stand up and demand new leadership that will once again put our
country back on the right track."

Last night the Clintons attended a house party in Westchester and addressed a
conference call of supporters at more than 100 parties statewide.

"I'm very proud of her and very grateful to you for helping her," Bill Clinton
in introducing his wife.

"I'm looking forward to getting out this summer and seeing the beauty of New
York. It will be a great campaign," Sen. Clinton said.

In her earlier speech, she ripped the "wrongheaded, short-sighted foreign policy
of this administration."

"Let's start building alliances instead of alienation around the world," she
said. "Let's win back the respect that the people of the world should have for
our country."

Her speech also touched upon the growing federal budget deficit, global warning
and alternative-energy needs.

She spoke of the need to "revitalize" manufacturing, and called for the first
increase in the federal minimum wage in a decade.

Sen. Clinton has refused to say whether she is interested in running for
president in 2008 and will not promise to serve another six years in the Senate
if re-elected.

Bill Clinton told WGRZ-TV in Buffalo that his wife's speech was designed to
address how she would deal with issues as senator - but he said, "The rest of it
will have to take of itself in the fullness of time." Sen. Clinton also praised
her husband, who received warm applause and gave his wife a big hug after her
speech.

With people still speculating about their marriage, Hillary Clinton said the
former president "remains an inspiration and a mentor, a friend and a partner."

---

Convention highlights

* Hillary Rodham Clinton picked as the Democratic Party's designee for
re-election to the U.S. Senate.

* Former Yonkers Mayor John Spencer chosen as the GOP designee to challenge
Clinton.

* Former Westchester District Attorney Jeanine Pirro selected as the Republican
Party's designee for state Attorney General.

* Today: Republican delegates vote on their candidate for governor - William
Weld or John Faso.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUNNING MATES: Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton gets a hug from her hubby
after her acceptance speech wowed the Democratic convention in Buffalo
yesterday. "We all need to stand up and demand new leadership," she said.
[Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday

ON TAPAS THE WORLD - BOQUERIA BREAKS OUT OF FALL PACK

BYLINE: Steve Cuozzo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 499 words


NEW York finally has a tapas restaurant for grown-ups. Boqueria (53 W. 19th St.,
[212] 255-4160) has fine large dishes to go with its pintxos, tapas and
raciones. It offers refreshing luxury for a place dominated by a tall communal
table and smaller tables built to the same lofty height.

Best of all, it makes "Spanish" taste as new and fresh as the country's cuisine
can be on its home ground, but rarely turns out in the New York translation. The
town is full of Spanish, Greek and even Mexican "tapas," most of which are an
excuse to ply boozing singles with an onslaught of oversalted, thirst-inducing
snacks.

The few Spanish joints that make a serious stab at getting tapas right lack the
seamless blend of comfort and conviviality you find in Madrid or Barcelona.
Barca 18 and Bolo feel like big, serious restaurants, not tapas bars. Casa Mono
comes closer to the Spanish shtick, but the menu is too limited.

I went into Boqueria for the first time with a bad attitude. Owner Yann de
Rochefort also runs dimly lit Suba on Ludlow Street, better known for its
gurgling subterranean moat than for its food. And chef/partner Seamus Mullen
once worked at cutting-edge Mugaritz near San Sebastian, where I gagged in panic
after biting into the notorious berro de para flower, a natural form of
Novocaine from the Brazilian rain forest.

But there are no Amazonian ambushes at Boqueria. And in contrast to Suba, the
place glows with a warm palette of walls in blond wood and stone - a sexy
setting for stylish customers from barely dressed Lindsay Lohan wannabes to
mature dudes in pinstripes.

Traditional Spanish cuisine, especially in the country's south, can be
monotonous.

The "Spanish" cooking that's made a global splash in recent years tends to be
from the Basque country or from Catalonia, and both are echoed in Boqueria's
menu.

Tapas-making is a serious craft not mastered merely by throwing a few pieces of
Serrano ham on a cracker. Boqueria's lineup is an arresting alloy of tradition
and originality. And everything comes out of the kitchen sparkling fresh.

One night, Mullen improvised with mackerel "that came in too small" to be a
large dish, he said. The fish was pickled, boned and graced with complementary
shades of olive tapenade and apple - all in perfect balance.

Mullen's paella Valenciana uses clasparra rice, a short-grain variety with a
crackling consistency that's a far cry from the mushy strains common here. It's
ideal to absorb the flavors of saffron and shellfish, and it made all the
difference.

The menu can be confusing, with dishes of varying sizes priced at $3, $6, $11,
$19 and (for sharing) $29. But the waitstaff walks you through it without making
you feel like a nincompoop.

Mullen even explained to me what that Amazonian flower was doing on the plate at
Mugaritz (a small amount, apparently, will cause your mouth to water, allowing
you to retaste all the flavors in the dish you just ate) - and cheerfully
promised not to try anything like it here.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chef David Santiago prepares plates for true fans of Barcelona cuisine.
[J. Scott Wynn]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday

CLIMATE OF BIAS; NEW STORM HITS WEATHER CHANNEL

BYLINE: JEANE MacINTOSH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 473 words


A top female exec at The Weather Channel alerted company brass that plans to
"young up" the network and fire two anchorwomen constituted age discrimination -
and was promptly axed herself, new court papers reveal.

Lois Craig, top dog in TWC's human-resources department, was "promptly
terminated" after she told CEO Bill Burke she feared plans to boot prime-time
anchor Marny Stanier Midkiff and another female colleague violated
discrimination laws, according to the documents.

The papers - which reference a deposition given by Craig - were filed last month
in Atlanta Supreme Court and mark the latest salvo from Midkiff, 43, who sparked
a storm of controversy for TWC when she sued last January over her 2003 firing.

The new papers are part of the lawsuit Midkiff, a 16-year vet of TWC, filed
alleging her boss, General Manager and Vice President Terry Connelly, fired her
after claiming that older on-camera staff was costing the network viewers.

Connelly openly spoke of female staffers as "matronly, dowdy and nun-like,"
according to the original suit. After the suit was filed, a videotape emerged
that showed Connelly at a company seminar openly ridiculing the wardrobe of a
Fox News anchor, saying it made her look old.

"Do you want to look old?!" Connelly shouts.

Meanwhile, the newly filed papers claim that women over 40 weren't Connelly's
only target.

In 2003, Connelly told male anchor Rick Griffin, then 47, that he looked "old"
and needed cosmetic surgery on his eyelids if he wanted to stay in the biz,
according to the court papers, which cite Griffin's deposition.

Griffin refused. That October, after being issued a warning to "improve his
performance," Griffin was fired at Connelly's behest, the documents claim. For
her part, Craig filed charges claiming she was fired in retaliation for opposing
age discrimination - and landed "a very substantial settlement" from TWC, the
new papers claim.

The documents also reveal that Connelly was fired from a Cincinnati TV station
where "a female employee over 40 brought an age- and sex-discrimination case
against the station in connection with Connelly's participation in the
elimination of her position."

Connelly directed women to change their hairstyles to look "younger." A young
hire, Hillary Andrews, was told to bleach her hair and eyebrows, the papers
claim.

Connelly also ignored a company order to find other slots at TWC for Midkiff and
others whose jobs he wanted to eliminate, the papers claim.

At the same time, the papers say, Connelly was looking to fill those slots with
talent in their 20s and 30s - including Andrews, Alexandra Steele, Sandra Diaz,
Jen Carfagno and Stephanie Abrams.

TWC has declined to comment on the ongoing Midkiff suit.

An Atlanta judge is slated to hear arguments in the next few weeks.

jeane.macintosh@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGH PRESSURE SYSTEM: The Weather Channel is planning to "young up" the
network by replacing older anchors with younger talent, a fired executive
claims. IN: Jen Carfagno, Hilary Andrews, Stephanie Abrams, Alexandra Steele.
OUT: Marny Stanier Midkiff.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 16, 2006 Thursday

A LITTLE ADVICE FOR THE NEW FED CHIEF

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 431 words


THE Mortgage Bankers Association says applications for loans were down again
last week, as they have been for the last month or so. And housing sales are
weakening even as prices seem to be declining.

And the labor market produced an unexpectedly small number of jobs last month.
Car dealers are reporting that inventories are building up on their lots as
consumers wait for the next giveaways.

The economy overall performed so badly in the fourth quarter of last year that
the bond market has been predicting that a downturn is just ahead.

But Ben Bernanke, the 52-year-old new head of the Federal Reserve, says he'll
continue to raise interest rates - which, of course, would cause a further
slowdown.

Or as Bernanke put it yesterday in his first official speech: "The risk exists
that, with aggregate demand exhibiting considerable momentum, output could
overshoot its sustainable path, leading ultimately - in the absence of
countervailing monetary policy action - to further upward pressure on
inflation."

That's a lot clearer than how his predecessor Alan Greenspan would have put it,
but maybe you still need a translator.

Bernanke is saying that he's an inflation hawk, and Wall Street can put away its
dreams that the era of interest rate increases is about to end.

Bernanke, an academic known for his loose lips, has said such stupid things in
the past that his first official words couldn't have been any less than a
declaration of war against rising prices.

And that's why the former Princeton economist and White House flunky was such a
bad choice to head the Fed.

For a change, Wall Street is right: The Fed should be backing off its tightening
policy.

For one thing business conditions are already slowing. For another, this
slowdown is occurring even though market interest rates haven't risen anywhere
near what Alan Greenspan wanted.

So the desire by stock and bond jockeys for the Fed to back off is correct.

This should be a time when the Fed turns neutral in anticipation of probably
having to start trimming borrowing costs if the economy does slide into a
recession.

He now has to convince the world financial markets that he is really a staunch
inflation fighter who just happens to have a big mouth. Becoming a virgin again
is a tough trick.

Will Bernanke succeed? We all better hope he does.

If the new Fed chairman doesn't pull this off, all the interest rate hikes that
the financial markets ignored over the past 18 months could come into the
economy all at once. And the slowdown we are now having will become much worse.

(p. 36 in metro)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A NEW VOICE:<BD- Fed boss Ben Bernanke promises interest rate hikes in
his first address to Congress.     [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 6, 2006 Monday

SEC: GONE FISHIN' - A BIG ONE IS GETTING AWAY WHILE IT CASTS AT REPORTERS

BYLINE: Christopher Byron

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1156 words


IT'S good to see that the U.S. Securities and Ex change Commission has come to
its senses and that - at least for the time being - it won't be enforcing the
media subpoenas that have gotten the press so riled up.

But before anyone breaks out the pom-poms for SEC Chairman Christopher Cox,
let's remember that these wrong-headed subpoenas were 100 percent the
responsibility of Cox's own agency in the first place - and until the SEC
develops better, more focused leadership, problems like those caused by these
subpoenas are going to keep occurring.

What's more, while the SEC has been chasing after wrongdoing by hedge funds that
may not even have occurred, real examples of hedge-fund misconduct have gone
ignored.

Consider the Lancer hedge fund case, which has been rotting like a dead fish in
the agency's own files for years.

Two weeks ago, a federal judge in Miami unsealed more than 40 pages of internal
e-mail, memos and similar materials produced in the Lancer hedge fund fraud
case, which developed out of a series of articles that ran in The Post almost
four years ago.

This latest round of Lancer documents had been produced, under a court-ordered
subpoena, by the fraud-drenched fund group's administrative and record-keeping
firm, Citco Fund Services. The Citco brass had fought tooth and nail to keep the
documents sealed, and it's not hard to see why.

Even a casual reading of the unsealed case file shows that Citco's profit-crazed
officials were fully aware, year after year, of the flagrantly false and
fraudulent accounting that turned Lancer into a $1.2 billion house of cards.

Worse, the documents show that almost to the moment of Lancer's collapse in the
summer of 2003, Citco bigwigs spent much of their time fretting over how they
could extricate Citco - and themselves - from the Lancer fiasco before being
dragged down in the collapse that was certain to come.

There is e-mail between Citco officials warning that the fund was deeply engaged
in price-rigging schemes involving an array of worthless penny stocks. Other
documents, one dating from as far back as autumn 1996, warn that rampant
accounting skullduggery was affecting the funds' net asset values.

One remarkable e-mail message from May 2002 shows Citco officials scheming to
get Lancer's outside auditors at PricewaterhouseCoopers to "sign off" on the
fraud so that Citco wouldn't wind up being accused of orchestrating a coverup on
its own.

THE memo warns, "This would be very bad news for us."

Elsewhere in the memo, the author - Citco official John Verhoorfen - suggested
alerting U.S. law enforcement, offering an astonishing rationale for doing so:
"At least that way it looks like we uncovered the problems."

All this and more has sat unpursued in the SEC case file for years while the
agency has waged a faltering struggle to develop a case not against Citco and
Lancer's equally vulnerable and complicit accounting firms, outside auditors and
bank custodians, but merely against the fund group's founder and managing
director, Michael Lauer.

In any event, the most the SEC can hope for is a fine and an injunction from
further fraud. By contrast, a case against Citco would not only have been far
easier to prove, but would have yielded a much larger fine than anything likely
to be slapped on Lauer.

And most important of all, pursuing a case against Citco would likely have led
to a high-visibility criminal referral to the U.S. Department of Justice years
ago, sending an unmistakable message to the entire hedge-fund industry that
those who break the law will go to prison.

But the SEC has done nothing of the sort, choosing instead to spend its time
frittering away its resources on conspiracy snipe hunts like the one inolving
the subpoenaed e-mail of three journalists.

This is all happening because, as I have argued many times in this space, the
SEC is a poorly led, bureaucratic anachronism from the New Deal that lacks a
mission relevant to the times and the enforcement tools to get the job done.

As such, it has been functioning for the last half decade in a climate marked by
revolving-door leadership at the top, staff defections in the middle ranks and
bewilderment at every level regarding the types of activities the agency's
enforcement division ought to be looking for when it comes to improper and
illegal behavior by hedge funds.

Against that backdrop, the SEC has developed into one of the most troubled and
demoralized - yet intensely politicized - agencies in the entire federal
government, with the once-coveted job of SEC chairman becoming one of the most
shunned hot seats in Washington.

For the first six months of his first term, President Bush couldn't even find a
replacement for the departing Arthur Levitt, helping bolster the impression that
this was a job no sensible person wanted.

The man Bush finally signed up, white-collar criminal defense lawyer Harvey
Pitt, lasted 18 months before pushing the self-destruct button. After Pitt came
William Donaldson, a Wall Street old-timer who was hounded out of office after
two years.

Donaldson's tour ended when he impaled himself on a pledge to bring the
unregulated world of hedge funds to heel by forcing them to file regular
financial statements with the SEC, the same way mutual funds do.

After Donaldson came the current occupant of the office, Cox, who arrived on the
scene last August.

Anxious to deflect speculation that he planned to let Donaldson's newly enacted
hedge-fund reporting rules become dead-letter law through lax enforcement, Cox
said he intended no such thing and expected the rules to be enforced exactly as
written.

Now, of course, he's got exactly the opposite problem, courtesy of subordinates
who apparently took his comments as a thumbs up for a hedge-fund jihad, and
thereupon launched themselves on a subpoena-backed fishing expedition through
the e-mails of three journalists.

This isn't how any agency of government should be run, but it's been standard
operating procedure at the SEC for years. And don't count on it changing anytime
soon - especially now that Cox has managed to dial down the volume on the whole
affair.

Besides, out here in the short attention span theater of American life, a person
can only stand so much of anything before reaching for the zapper. A night at
the Oscars? Some quality time with the gang at "Law & Order SVU"? Maybe some of
the overnight action from Baghdad. The mind reels, it's all a blur . . .
Zzzzzzzz.

----

E-mail trail

Internal e-mails at a hedge fund administrator surrounding the Lancer affair -
unsealed recently by a federal judge in Miami - point to evidence that has yet
to be taken up by SEC investigators.

'Any news from PWC [Pricewaterhouse-Coopers]? I think their signing off is
crucial.If they don't, all will come out and we will get the blame since it will
be perceived that we never saw or reported it. This would be very bad news for
us.'

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Chris Cox, SEC chairman -SEC headquarters in Washington, D.C.
[Bloomberg] -Chris Cox, SEC chairman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

BRUNO'S BETRAYAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 599 words


Et tu, Bruno?

It's no surprise that Democrats yearn to subject New York companies to the worst
kinds of anti-business laws. But Republicans, too?

Sadly, it seems so.

That's the bottom line on a major piece of anti-business legislation, aimed
primarily at Wal-Mart, now prospering in Albany.

Pushed by the pro-labor Working Families Party, the bill requires firms with
more than 100 workers to offer every worker a health-insurance plan worth at
least $3 an hour - or face an equivalent tax.

GOP Senate Majority Leader Joe Bruno - who claims to be a guardian of
small-government, conservative ideals - has praised the bill's concept:

When "some of the so-called big-box stores say to their employees, here is an
application to go to apply to [state-sponsored] Family Health Plus or Healthy
New York and get your insurance, that's a taxpayer expense - while the place
next door is providing health insurance as part of their overhead. It's
inequitable. It's unfair." Gov. Pataki appears to agree.

Huh?

"Inequitable"? "Unfair"? Nonsense.

These stores are doing nothing wrong.

Let's be honest: Wal-Mart provides decent jobs and health insurance - which is
why job applicants line up for blocks every time a new store opens.

It also offers good selection and prices, which is why even union members like
to shop there.

If a state health plan is available, why shouldn't workers partake of it?

And if it saves the store money, what's wrong with that? It can help keep prices
down, create more jobs and raise salaries.

The state itself, by the way, is also encouraging New Yorkers to opt for
state-sponsored health care - via its Medicaid "recruitment" programs.

What about the claim that taxpayers are saddled with big new costs when workers
go on Medicaid? Not the whole story. After all, employer health care is
tax-deductible for companies, so even then taxpayers are picking up the cost.
(The state will also wind up covering many "workers" who don't have jobs,
because the likes of Wal-Mart have been kept out.)

And if workers choose the state plan over Wal-Mart's, why blame the store for
offering poor benefits; why not blame the state for being too generous?

Remember, New York spends nearly as much on Medicaid as the next two
biggest-spending states - California and Texas - combined.

That's why taxpayers are getting socked.

Make no mistake: Bruno's betrayal has nothing to do with saving taxpayers money
and everything to do with his vanishing GOP majority in the state Senate.

Why does Bruno suddenly think that established businesses and labor unions need
to be protected from big bad Wal-Mart - even at the expense of New York
shoppers? Because those special interests can help maintain his power.

What a shame. Nothing can be worse for New York's lackluster economy
(particularly Upstate - Bruno's neck of the woods) than for government to
dictate what benefits a firm must provide.

Even as it also governs salary levels. (Albany hiked the state's minimum wage to
$6.75 an hour this year.)

This bill is a giant "Stay Away" sign to business - killing jobs in a state
already deemed by the Tax Foundation to have the nation's worst business
climate.

Bruno likely fears the Working Families Party will target Senate Republicans -
thus imperiling his precious razor-thin majority - if he doesn't pass this bill.

But what's the point of having the Senate in GOP hands if the party is only
going to throw away its principles - and the state economy - and act just like
Democrats?

Bruno & Co. should squash this bill. If they don't, voters should squash his
majority.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 17, 2006 Friday

SHOOTING DISTANCE - DOW WITHIN RANGE OF BUBBLE-TIME HIGH

BYLINE: SUZANNE McGEE

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 648 words


The stock market's five-day winning streak has brought the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to its highest point in nearly five years, and within shooting distance
of levels not seen since before the stock market bubble burst in early 2000.

And this time, the rally isn't accompanied by the kind of anxious muttering from
the sidelines that has been characteristic of previous - and short-lived -
gains.

"I'm no Pollyanna, always looking at the bright side but even I would find it
hard to see any signs this rally will sputter out," says Jim Swanson, market
strategist for MFS, the Boston-based mutual fund group.

In Swanson's eyes, this is a classic mid-business cycle rally of the kind that
gets going when the market decides that Federal Reserve policymakers seem close
to calling a halt to their policy of boosting short-term interest rates.

"It's becoming more clear that there is no inflation emergency; that high energy
costs are not filtering through to core inflation," Swanson argued.

"In fact, the danger now seems greater that the Fed will go too far in raising
rates - and the danger for investors is that they will get caught on the
sidelines if the Fed does stop tightening at their May meeting."

Investors seeking additional comfort that inflation is under control have have
had plenty to choose from. The Labor Department reported yesterday that the
"core" consumer-price index edged up only 0.1 percent in February, falling short
of predictions it would rise 0.2 percent.

"Signs of weakness in retail spending, in manufacturing activity, in inflation
data, all contribute to the idea that the Fed has only one or two more rate
hikes left," says Jeff Kleintop, at PNC Advisors.

That would take the Fed funds rate to 4.75 percent or 5 percent, well above the
1 percent low recorded in 2003 when the Fed tried to get the economy moving
again after the recession. With an end in sight, however, investors will have
more confidence about bidding up price/earnings ratios, sending stocks higher.

"I believe we will only lose this ground if the Fed fails to stop raising rates,
or if something unexpected comes along to increase inflationary pressures,"
argues Stuart Freeman, market strategist at AG Edwards.

In the absence of such a wild card, he says seeing the Standard & Poor's 500
index hit 1400 by year-end "is not ridiculous." Yesterday, the broad market
bellwether edged up another 2.31 points to 1305.33, while the Dow jumped 43.47
points to 11,253.24.

Freeman says the 500 stocks in the S&P index currently trade at an average of
16.8 times their prospective earnings. He says that could jump to 18 times
earnings, or higher.

"After the last mid-cycle slowdown, we saw P/E ratios go from 14 to 23 over a
period of several months," Freeman notes.

Look for stock market laggards like healthcare stocks to move back to the
forefront in this kind of business cycle transition, analysts predict. Large-cap
stocks may finally seize the spotlight away from their mid-cap and small-cap
counterparts.

"It is the sectors that have depressed P/E multiples relative to their history,
that look relatively cheap, that tend to outperform," notes Kleintop. He expects
companies that profit from business spending to stage a rebound as capital
spending rallies.

Freeman is urging clients to build overweight positions in healthcare and
consumer staples, which he says are valued near the bottom of their 10-year
range.

Dow wow!

With core inflation appearing to be under control, market players are pulling
out the stops - and the Dow record of 11,722 points is in their sights.

What stock bulls are seeing:

*  The Fed will stop raising rates.

*  Oil prices will hold in a stable range.

*  Firms' price-earnings ratios will improve.

Chart - PRICE IS RIGHT

Monthly changes in consumer prices

Chart - DOW JONES Industrial Average

Close

11,253.24

YTD

+535.74

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Traders

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday

CITY IN EYE OF KILLER - HURRICANE DISASTER OVERDUE: EXPERTS

BYLINE: BILL HOFFMANN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 623 words


New York could be devastated this summer by a killer storm as powerful as
Hurricane Katrina - one that could claim countless lives and cause billions of
dollars in damages, top meteorologists warned yesterday.

They say the metropolitan area is long overdue for a powerful hurricane, and
weather conditions now being monitored are alarmingly similar to those that
triggered the catastrophic, nameless hurricane of 1938, which killed 600 people
in the Northeast.

"The Northeast is staring down the barrel of a gun," said Joe Bastardi, the
chief hurricane forecaster for AccuWeather.com, a private forecasting service.

"[With] the weather patterns and hydrology we're seeing in the oceans, the
likelihood of a major hurricane making landfall in the Northeast is not a
question of if - but when."

He and several other meteorologists say the current cycle of storms, pressure
systems and above-normal water temperatures in the Atlantic are the key
ingredients for a killer hurricane that could take hundreds of lives, destroy
countless buildings, cause massive flooding and spark massive power outages.

"New Yorkers are not used to this sort of thing. They are not used to dealing
with it," said AccuWeather senior meteorologist Ken Reeves.

"And since the last major storms we've had, development along the coastline has
been substantial, to say the least. The amount of human life and property in
harm's way is huge.

"Because a hurricane of this magnitude has not made landfall in the Northeastern
U.S. in nearly 60 years, few Americans are even aware that hurricanes can, and
do, directly impact this part of the country."

The New York area ranks third among major American cities most likely to be
slammed by a hurricane - behind New Orleans and Miami.

"Will houses built along the shoreline be able to withstand 130-mph to 140-mph
winds? We lost a lot of lives to Katrina and I don't think anybody wants to see
a repeat of that," Reeves said.

But that's exactly what could happen if a natural disaster strikes, according to
experts.

"The city is not prepared," said Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, (D-Westchester),
who has studied the state's evacuation plans for years and issued reports on
their woeful inadequacy.

He said the number of people who would have to be evacuated has been
underestimated and the public transportation needed to do it is inadequate.

Even more vulnerable than New York City, meteorologists say, are the Hamptons,
which could see huge areas of land disappear under water if the storm surge the
hurricane generates is powerful enough. Fire Island, a glorified sandbar of
multimillion-dollar homes, would likely be wiped out.

* Meanwhile, yesterday was the first day of spring - although it didn't feel
like it, as temperatures reached just 40 degrees.

But the mercury is expected to inch higher over the next few days, and with
sunny skies in the forecast, the thermometer should hit 50 by Thursday.

---

Taken by storm (Map)

Hurricane of 1938 (Sept.)

* 120-mph winds and storm surges

* 600 killed, 3,500 injured, and 75,000 buildings destroyed

* $300M in damages

The Great Atlantic Hurricane of 1944 (Sept.)

* 120-mph winds

* 390 dead

* $100M damages

Hurricane Carol (Aug. 1954)

* 125-mph winds

* 68 dead, and 4,000 homes, 3,500 cars and 3,000 boats destroyed

* $461M in damages

Hurricane Gloria (Sept. 1985)

* 85-mph winds

* 11 dead

* $900M in damages

Why a hurricane may hit us

* Above-normal water temperatures being recorded are similar to those that
produced the 1938 killer hurricane.

* Climate changes show the Northeast is more likely to be battered this year
than the Gulf of Mexico.

* Hurricanes are cyclical and pressure systems along the Eastern Seaboard are
now conducive to a major storm.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY WAKE: A couple sits amid the ruins of their Rhode Island home,
destroyed in 1938 by the worst hurricane to hit the Northeast. [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday

WHY WE FIGHT - TONY BLAIR EXPLAINS THE STAKES IN IRAQ - AND EVERYWHERE

BYLINE: Tony Blair

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1557 words


Below are excerpts from British Prime Minister Tony Blair's speech yesterday to
the Foreign Policy Center in London. The full text is on the Web at:
number10.gov.uk/output/Page9222.asp

- THE EDITORS

VICTORY for democracy in Iraq and Afghanistan is a vital element of defeating
global terrorism.

I recall the video footage of Mohammed Sadiq Khan, the ringleader of the 7/7
bombers. There he was, complaining about the suppression of Muslims, the
wickedness of America and Britain, calling on all fellow Muslims to fight us.

And I thought: Here is someone brought up in this country - free to practice his
religion, free to speak out, free to vote, with a good standard of living and
every chance to raise a family in a decent way of life - talking about "us," the
British, when his whole experience of "us" has been the very opposite of the
message he is preaching.

And in so far as he is angry about Muslims in Iraq or Afghanistan - let Iraqi or
Afghan Muslims decide whether to be angry or not, by ballot.

There was something tragic, terrible but also ridiculous about such a diatribe.
He may have been born here. But his ideology wasn't. And that is why it has to
be taken on, everywhere.

This terrorism will not be defeated until its ideas - the poison that warps the
minds of its adherents - are confronted, head-on, in their essence, at their
core.

By this I don't mean telling them terrorism is wrong. I mean telling them their
attitude to America is absurd; their concept of governance pre-feudal; their
positions on women and other faiths, reactionary and regressive.

And then, since only by Muslims can this be done: standing up for and supporting
those within Islam who will tell them all of this but more - namely that the
extremist view of Islam is not just theologically backward but completely
contrary to the spirit and teaching of the Koran.

But in order to do this, we must reject the thought that somehow we are the
authors of our own distress; that if only we altered this decision or that, the
extremism would fade away. The only way to win is to recognize this phenomenon
is a global ideology; to see all areas, in which it operates, as linked; and to
defeat it by values and ideas set in opposition to those of the terrorists.

THE struggle against terrorism in Madrid or London or Paris is the same as the
struggle against the terrorist acts of Hezbollah in Lebanon or the PIJ in
Palestine or rejectionist groups in Iraq. The murder of the innocent in Beslan
is part of the same ideology that takes innocent lives in Saudi Arabia, the
Yemen or Libya.

And when Iran gives support to such terrorism, it becomes part of the same
battle, with the same ideology at its heart.

The conventional view is that, for example, Iran is hostile to al Qaeda and
therefore would never support its activities. But as we know from our own
history of conflict, under the pressure of battle, alliances shift and change.
Fundamentally, for this ideology, we are the enemy.

Which brings me to the fundamental point. "We" is not the West. "We" are as much
Muslim as Christian or Jew or Hindu. "We" are those who believe in religious
tolerance, openness to others, to democracy, liberty and human rights
administered by secular courts.

This is not a clash between civilizations. It is a clash about civilization.

It is the age-old battle between progress and reaction, between those who
embrace and see opportunity in the modern world and those who reject its
existence; between optimism and hope on the one hand; and pessimism and fear on
the other.

And in the era of globalization - where nations depend on each other and where
our security is held in common or not at all - the outcome of this clash between
extremism and progress is utterly determinative of our future here in Britain.
We can no more opt out of this struggle than we can opt out of the climate
changing around us.

T HIS is why the position of so much opinion on how to defeat this terrorism and
on the continuing struggle in Iraq and Afghanistan and the Middle East is, in my
judgment, so mistaken. It ignores the true significance of the elections in Iraq
and Afghanistan.

The fact is: Given the chance, the people wanted democracy. OK, so they voted on
religious or regional lines. That's not surprising, given the history. But
there's not much doubt what all the main parties in both countries would prefer,
and it is neither theocratic nor secular dictatorship.

The people - despite violence, intimidation, inexperience and often logistical
nightmares - voted. Not a few, but in numbers large enough to shame many western
democracies. They want government decided by the people.

And who is trying to stop them? In Iraq, a mixture of foreign Jihadists, former
Saddamists and rejectionist insurgents. In Afghanistan, a combination of drug
barons, Taliban and al Qaeda.

In both countries, the armed forces and police service are taking shape so that
in time a democratically elected government has, under its control, sufficient
power to do the will of the democratic state. In each case, people die lining up
to join such forces - determined, whatever the risk, to be part of a new and
different dispensation.

So here, in its most pure form, is a struggle between democracy and violence.

PEOPLE look back on the three years since the Iraq conflict; they point to the
precarious nature of Iraq today and to those who have died - mainly in terrorist
acts - and they say: How can it have been worth it?

But there is a different question to ask: Why is it so important to the forces
of reaction and violence to halt Iraq in its democratic tracks and tip it into
sectarian war? Why do foreign terrorists from al Qaeda and its associates go
across the border to kill and maim? Why does Syria not take stronger action to
prevent them? Why does Iran meddle so furiously in the stability of Iraq?

The answer is that the reactionary elements know the importance of victory or
defeat in Iraq. Right from the beginning, to them it was obvious.

For sure, errors were made on our side. But the basic problem from the murder of
the United Nations staff in August 2003 onwards was simple: security. The
reactionary elements were trying to de-rail both reconstruction and democracy by
violence.

Power and electricity became problems not through the indolence of either Iraqis
or the multinational force but through sabotage. People became frightened
through terrorism and through criminal gangs, some deliberately released by
Saddam.

These were not random acts. They were and are a strategy. When that strategy
failed to push the multinational force out of Iraq prematurely and failed to
stop the voting, they turned to sectarian killing and outrage - most notably
February's savage and blasphemous destruction of the Shia Shrine at Samarra.

They know that if they can succeed either in Iraq or Afghanistan (or indeed in
Lebanon or anywhere else wanting to go the democratic route), then the choice of
a modern democratic future for the Arab or Muslim world is dealt a potentially
mortal blow.

Likewise, if they fail, and those countries become democracies and make progress
and, in the case of Iraq, prosper rapidly as it would - then not merely is that
a blow against their whole value system; it is the most effective message
possible against their wretched propaganda about America, the West, the rest of
the world.

That to me is the painful irony of what is happening. They have so much clearer
a sense of what is at stake. They play our own media with a shrewdness that
would be the envy of many a political party.

SHORTLY after Saddam fell, I met in London a woman who, after years of exile
(and there were 4 million such exiles), had returned to Iraq to participate in
modern politics there. A couple of months later, she was assassinated, one of
the first to be so.

I cannot tell what she would say now. But I do know it would not be, "Give up."
She would not want her sacrifice for her beliefs to be in vain.

Two years later, the same ideology killed people on the streets of London, and
for the same reason: To stop cultures, faiths and races living in harmony; to
deter those who see greater openness to others as a mark of humanity's progress;
to disrupt the very thing that makes London special would in time, if allowed
to, set Iraq on a course of progress too.

This is, ultimately, a battle about modernity. Some of it can only be conducted
and won within Islam itself. But don't let us in our desire not to speak of what
we can only imperfectly understand; or our wish not to trespass on sensitive
feelings, end up accepting the premise of the very people fighting us.

The extremism is not the true voice of Islam. Neither is that voice necessarily
to be found in those who are from one part only of Islamic thought, however
assertively that voice makes itself heard. It is, as ever, to be found in the
calm, but too often unheard beliefs of the many Muslims, millions of them the
world over, including in Europe, who want what we all want: to be ourselves free
and for others to be free also; who regard tolerance as a virtue and respect for
the faith of others as part of our own faith.

That is what this battle is about, within Islam and outside of it; it is a
battle of values and progress - and therefore it is one we must win.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'This is not a clash between civilizations.  It is a clash about
civilization.' - Tony Blair [AFP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 27, 2006 Monday

AMERICANS FUME

BYLINE: Neil Graves

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 86 words


Four in five Americans believe that global warming threatens future generations
- and two in three say the Bush administration has done little to curb the
danger, a new poll has found.

The Time magazine/ABC News/Stanford University poll also found that 49 percent
think global warming is important, compared with 31 percent in 1998.

Many cited the Kyoto Protocol's support of such initiatives as cutting
greenhouse-gas emissions. It was signed by the leaders of 141 nations in 2005
but not by President Bush.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday

'REEL' PEOPLE - FILM FESTS FEATURE THE BEST OF LATIN FLICKS

BYLINE: MERCEDES SANCHEZ and SANDRA GUZMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 641 words


LOVERS of Latino films rejoice! With both the Havana Film Festival in New York
and the Tribeca Film Festival in town this week, you can gorge on the culture of
love, parades, poetry and Fidel Castro without ever leaving the Big Apple.

Boasting the biggest showcase of Latino and Latino themed films, the Tribeca
Film Fest will feature the long awaited documentary directed by award-winning
actress Rosie Perez, "Yo Soy Boricua, Pa' Que Tu Lo Sepas! (I'm Boricua, Just So
You Know!) (See the sidebar for the Havana Film Fest pics.)

The documentary- parts of it narrated by Emmy winning actor and fellow Boricua
Jimmy Smits - is a showcase of Puerto Rican culture and history as seen through
the Brooklyn-born and raised Puertorriqueña's eyes.

"The film is not about the Puerto Rican Day Parade, it's about our political
history with Spain and the U.S., " says Perez of her project. "I try to show how
certain political actions and events affect a people and a culture."

The actress concedes that she did get to use footage of one of the city's most
lively events.

"I bookended with the parade, yeah, we are loud and we have every right to be.
We endured a lot and fought to be here," she says.

Perez will also participate in one of the most important events of the festival,
a panel discussion on the current state of Hispanic females in the entertainment
industry. The talk will also be led by two other leading Latina ladies -
Dominicana Zoe Saldaña and Argentinian Mia Maestro.

"The climate for Latinas in the industry is much better than it was 30, 20 and
even ten years ago," says the Dominican-raised actress Saldaña who has starred
in "Guess Who" with Ashton Kutcher and "The Terminal" with Tom Hanks among other
films. "But the change," she adds, "has come because we have some fierce women
of color making it happen for ourselves."

Despite the progress, Saldaña says the biggest challenge is not in Anglo
Hollywood but within Latinos in the industry.

"Latino directors and media still have a way to go in showcasing the diversity
of colors and multifaceted community

that we are," says the Latina beauty. As an example, she mentioned Latina
magazine.

"It took me eight years for Latina {magazine} to say that I'm Latina," she says
commenting on the current issue of the glossy whose cover she graces.

Saldaña, will put on the producer's hat for the first time this June when she
starts filming "Lucy," the movie version of Jamaica Kincaid's lush coming of age
novel in which she is also starring.

Here are our top pics of the TFF offerings:

* "Journey to the End of the Night," Directed by Eric Eason. This thriller
brings Oscar-nominee Catalina Sandino Moreno in another drug related film, this
time in Brazil. Starts Friday, April 28, Tribeca Performing Arts 1. 199 Chambers
Street, between Greenwich and West streets. $12. 9 p.m.

* "Razing New York: The Disappearance of Affordable Housing," Various directors
including Anthony Marrero and Lenah Perez. This gem is all about gentrification
in the City.

Saturday, April 29. AMC Loews 34th Street 13. 312 West 34th Street, between
Eighth and Ninth avenues. $ 12. 5:15 p.m.

* "Burning Patience," Directed by Antonio Skarmeta. Chilean writer brings his
novel "El Cartero de Neruda," to film. Sunday, April 30.

Tribeca Cinemas 2. 54 Varick Street, below Canal at Laight Street. $12. 9:30
p.m.

* "Yo Soy Boricua, Pa' Que Tu Lo Sepas!" Directed by, Rosie Perez and Liz
Garbus. Starts April 28. Pace University Schimmel Center. 1 Pace Plaza, Spruce
Street, between Park Row and Gold street. $12. 8:30 p.m.

* "Adelante Mujeres: Latinas at the Helm," featuring Zoe Saldaña, Mia Maestro
and Rosie Perez. Tribeca Talks Panel Series , Tribeca Performing Arts 2. 199
Chambers Street, between Greenwich and West streets. $20. 7 p.m.

For more tickets and schedule go to TribecaFilmFestival.org

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brainy beauties Rosie Perez and Zoe Saldana (left) are in front and
behind the cameras. [WireImage (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 34 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday

RALLY GOOD DAY; DEALS, ELECTION HOPES SPARK BIG MOVE FOR STOCKS

BYLINE: SUZANNE McGEE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 504 words


A wave of big mergers and a newly optimistic view of Capitol Hill gridlock
sparked a big rally that carried stocks to their first gains in six days.

Banking that a change of control in the House would keep the gridlock in
Washington fully in place, the Dow Jones industrial average jumped 1 percent,
accompanied by even larger gains in the tech-heavy Nasdaq index.

"The news of the day reminded everyone after a couple of bad days in the market
that corporate America still has a lot of cash in its wallet," said John
Forelli, a portfolio manager at Independence Advisors.

It was an unexpected bounce. Normally, the market loathes pre-election
uncertainty, and investors stay glued to the sidelines awaiting the final tally.
And traditionally, what's good for the Democrats is bad for investors, who fear
regulatory interference in business and the markets.

But this year, the Dow Jones industrial average confounded market veterans by
rocketing 119.51 points higher to hit 12,105.55, while the Nasdaq soared 1.51
percent, or 35.16, to hit 2,365.95.

"I guess people are looking at the polls and saying, 'Well, what were the best
years we've had in the market?' The years when Bill Clinton was president with a
Republican Congress," said Art Hogan, market strategist at Jefferies & Co.

A Congress dominated by Democrats won't be likely to push through major tax
increases under a Republican president.

"That would mean that for at least two years, the free market economy and
business cycle fundamentals would be left to function without interference,
which investors seem to believe would be, at worst, benign," said Hogan.

A wave of merger and acquisition deals and takeover proposals added fuel to the
fire.

A group of investors, led by Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal and Microsoft
honcho Bill Gates, want to buy Four Seasons Hotels for a cool $3.7 billion,
while Kinross Gold agreed to acquire Bema Gold for $3.1 billion. Buyout firms
jumped into the fray with pacts to buy the parent company of Outback Steakhouse,
among other deals.

Even a jump in crude oil prices couldn't spoil the party. Crude oil futures on
the New York Mercantile Exchange climbed back above $60 in the wake of an attack
on a Nigerian oil production complex.

"Investors seem to have picked up on the merger fever that grew throughout the
day, with each new transaction," said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at
Harris Private Bank.

There is still room for the market to slump in the aftermath of the election,
some analysts warn. In a note to clients, Merrill Lynch & Co. strategist Richard
Bernstein cautioned that if the Democrats do win both houses, stocks are likely
to see a short-term sell-off, with tobacco, drug, defense and luxury-retailing
stocks among the losers.

----

Matchmaking

For the love of unions - corporate ones, that is - investors sparked a
surprisingly strong pre-Election Day rally yesterday.

Nasdaq composite index - Close: 2,365.95 (+35.16)

Dow Jones Industrials - Close: 12,105.55 (+119.51)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mass wedding. [AFP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
