
                               1 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              June 9, 2002, Sunday

THE EPA'S HOT AIR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 462 words


It was reported last Monday that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency had
notified the United Nations that America now accepts the notion that global
warming is real - and that it is caused by human activity.

Next stop, the Kyoto Protocol?

Happily, it appears not: President Bush quickly dismissed the report.

The protocol, meant to reduce industrial use of cost-efficient "greenhouse"
gases, is a blueprint for economic catastrophe.

No doubt that's why the president was quick to characterize the EPA notification
as a "report put out by the bureaucracy" - even though, technically, it's his
bureaucracy!

Bush faced fierce criticism from otherwise allies such as Rush Limbaugh, who
called the president "George W. AlGore."

Ouch.

However, much of the flap seems to be a misinterpretation of the EPA's report.

According to the Associated Press, "Last year, the White House described climate
change as a serious issue after seeking opinions of the National Academy of
Sciences but was undecided about how much of the problem should be blamed on
human activities."

The EPA's report states, "The changes observed over the last several decades are
likely mostly due to human activities, but we cannot rule out that some
significant part of these changes is also a reflection of natural variability."

In other words, not that much of a change.

Of course, concern that the administration might have "gone wobbly" on global
warming is understandable.

After all, it was barely a week ago that the administration made the misguided
decision to ban gas and oil drilling in the Everglades and off the Florida coast
- thereby putting political considerations ahead of common sense and sound
science.

There is still a wide amount of debate as to what causes climate change. No one
really knows whether the Industrial Revolution created a greenhouse effect and
caused temperatures to rise.

The earth is a very complex ecosystem, with its temperature varying over
century-wide timespans.

To act on premature claims that curbing emissions of these gases will stave off
some hypothetical disaster is foolish.

The key questions are: If climate change is taking place, how much of it is due
to human activity?

Answer: No one truly knows.

What is to be done about it?

The environmental activists won't be satisfied with the EPA's suggestion that
there is no definitive answer from a policy perspective.

Indeed, they may well be emboldened to lobby for enactment of Kyoto.

Yet, considering this is the world's largest economy, what affects America
affects the world.

Japan has now ratified Kyoto. If America followed suit - and created a drag on
its own economy - it could take the rest of the world down with it.

Is that truly worth it?

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               2 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 15, 2002, Friday

INSIDE THE LIBS' WIN

BYLINE: JOHN PODHORETZ

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 031

LENGTH: 674 words


WASHINGTON

IT'S fascinating. In conservative and Republican Washington circles this week,
the only thing that really mattered was the only thing that has really mattered
since Sept. 11. The war and its future weren't just the main topics of
conversation at parties both large and small. They were the only topics of
conversation.

For liberals and Democrats, by contrast, it seems the only thing that really
mattered was campaign-finance reform.

In a week when we learned that Yemeni terrorists were trying to strike at
America and that al Qaeda has a new Palestinian operations chief at large
somewhere in the world, the action on Capitol Hill was dedicated to screaming
about Enron and the passage of the most sweeping regulations on peacetime
political speech ever devised.

There has long been an ideological divide in the United States between liberals
and conservatives. Still, across the divide we've usually been arguing about the
same things. Abortion: pro-life or pro-choice? Welfare: necessary hand-up or
dangerous hand-out? Defense spending: too little or too much?

But there is a total ideological disconnect when it comes to campaign-finance
issues. Liberals care passionately, even obsessively. Half a rain forest has
gone to produce the newsprint with which The New York Times has sought to impose
its opinion regarding the baleful influence of money on politics.

Conservatives simply can't bring themselves to care. When they do think about
it, they're dismayed at the idea of placing practical limits on the way
political speech is conducted. But mostly they're interested in other things.

Cynics on the Right believe that the Democratic passion for campaign-finance
reform is entirely due to the GOP's talent at raising "soft money," which would
be banned if President Bush signs into law the Shays-Meehan bill that the House
passed yesterday.

These cynics do their rivals an injustice. Liberals actually believe that the
reason their wonderful ideas for controlling and managing America do not become
law is solely due to rich people and corporations. Why else would such glorious
remedies as Hillary Clinton's health-care reform and the Kyoto treaty on global
climate change fail in Congress?

They believe that the legislative difficulties of many of their beloved policy
ideas are due to rich people and corporations throwing dollars into the
machinery to gum it up. Get the money out, and wonderful new regulations will
flow from Congress that will save the planet from pollution, cure the sick, feed
the hungry and cause money to pass from the rich to the poor.

Liberals display an almost touching tunnel vision, a parochialism born in part
of their refusal to credit or listen to the arguments and opinions of those with
whom they disagree. They believe their ideas are so good, so helpful, so fair
that those who oppose them do so only for bad reasons and ill motives.

This sort of thinking insults the American voting public. Americans dislike
giant "reforms" because of their ruinous economic consequences and because they
don't generally believe that government should be dictating the conduct of
business.

True, Americans often learn the truth about liberal reforms from an educational
and lobbying effort undertaken by corporations and others with a vested interest
in maintaining the status quo. But liberals have other resources conservatives
don't have, like compliant major media, that offer their own kind of education
in these matters.

Conservatives never tire of pointing out how little the public cares about
campaign-finance reform, how it consistently ranks 14th or 15th among the issues
Americans consider important. But this week the obsessive determination of the
passionate has triumphed over complacency.

Those of us who believe that campaign-finance reform is just one in a list of
bad ideas could not prevail over those who believe it is the single best idea
they've ever heard of.

E-mail: podhoretz@nypost.com


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shays: Won thanks to foes' indifference.

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               3 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 28, 2002, Tuesday

PATAKI'S PROMISES GET 'LEFT' BEHIND


BYLINE: FREDRIC U. DICKER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 021

LENGTH: 609 words


Gov. Pataki heads into the opening today of New York's GOP convention a clear
favorite for re-election, despite running in a state where Democrats outnumber
Republicans by a 5-3 margin.

The GOP gathering is at the Sheraton New York in Manhattan - the same hotel
where delegates to the Democratic convention last week gave their backing to
Carl McCall.

Pataki, 56, has never lost an election.

------

ALBANY - Gov. Pataki, elected as a conservative Republican in 1994, is running
for re-election this year as anything but.

Pataki's transformation from a New York version of Newt Gingrich to a
born-again, Democrat-like governmental activist and big spender has been
breathtaking, as many former Pataki allies bitterly attest.

"I think the governor has not just moved to the political 'middle,' but he has
kept on going and is now clearly in the left camp on a whole range of financial
issues," said Thomas Carroll, president of the anti-tax group Change-NY, whose
founders backed Pataki's election in 1994.

"The difficulty for voters is in deciding what Pataki will be in the future,
since he has been on every side of every issue in the past few years," Carroll
said.

Pataki's critics - both within and outside the GOP - call the governor a
political opportunist who has betrayed a wide range of pledges, including an
early promise to serve no more than two terms, restrain state spending, limit
government and generally adhere to a right-of-center agenda.

Pataki's defenders - and there are many, including some powerful Democrats -
concede the governor has become more liberal on a wide range of issues, such as
entitlement programs, rent control, the environment and gun control. But they
say the changes simply track the shift in New York as a whole.

The governor's supporters also credit him with cutting some state taxes and
improving the business climate.

Pataki was elected in 1994 contending that liberal Democratic Gov. Mario Cuomo's
tax-and-spend policies had brought New York to the brink of economic collapse.

That year, Cuomo proposed a record-high $62 billion state budget.

But this year, Pataki backed a record-high $90 billion budget, up a whopping 45
percent over Cuomo's last fiscal plan. The increase is more than twice the rate
of inflation.

"What is really interesting is that Pataki has metamorphosized into almost all
the things he disliked about Mario Cuomo, but instead of 'tax and spend,' it's
'borrow and spend,' " said Fred Siegel, a Cooper Union historian.

When Pataki was elected, the state's total taxpayer-supported debt was at a
record $26 billion.

Today, it stands at a record $37.6 billion, a 44 percent increase.

Critics say the skyrocketing state debt explains how Pataki has been able to
avoid massive new tax hikes - even while supporting record levels of state
spending.

This is also the year Pataki won passage of the most massive expansion in a
state entitlement program - health care for the poor and pay raises for
health-care workers - since big-spending liberal Republican Nelson Rockefeller
was governor from 1959 to 1973.

Pataki spearheaded the multibillion-dollar plan at the behest of
hospital-workers union President Dennis Rivera, a former vice president of the
national Democratic Party, who quickly gave his union's endorsement to Pataki
for a third term.

George Pataki's report card as governor: REPORT CARD

Leadership

Widely seen as a follower - of his latest polling data C-

Management

Before 9/11 often described as disengaged C

Vision

As far as his latest poll D

Scandals

Perception of "pay to play" atmosphere in government C-

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               4 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            December 9, 2002, Monday

SEARS' CREDIT WOES ; SALES SLIDE AND INTEREST-INCOME RELIANCE SPELL TROUBLE

BYLINE: Chirstopher Byron

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 035

LENGTH: 1301 words


Sears' retailing operation is little more than a loss-leader to generate
interest income from customers who buy on credit.ALL of a sudden everything
seems to be a mess again. November's Wall Street rally has petered out, and
stock prices are once again falling. Unemployment has leaped to an eight-year
high, the dollar is sliding, gold is rising, United Airlines is poised to go
Chapter 11, and the holiday shopping season is turning out to be a dud.

To all of which we may now add yet another thing to start worrying about: the
outlook for Sears Roebuck & Co. This company is sick, folks - really sick - and
if things keep going the way they have been lately, the nation's largest
department store chain, and third-largest merchandise retailer, will sooner or
later be joining Kmart Corp. in the retailing sector's final checkout line.

To be sure, the threat of a Sears bankruptcy is by no means imminent. Even today
Sears remains a huge business, with $40 billion in annual sales, a payroll of
310,000 employees, and balance sheet equity of more than $6.2 billion.

But the company also has more than $20 billion in long-term debt on its books,
and by now derives nearly all its earnings from a vulnerable credit card
business that finances the sale of Sears merchandise to customers with doubtful
credit histories, at sky-high interest rates. This is exactly the sort of
activity that can get hit hard in the current economic climate, and the business
is already starting to take blows.

Nor is any of this likely to change. If anything, it'll just get worse.

Ultimately, the company's problems boil down to demographics. When the country
was young and the population was migrating west, Sears' mail-order business was
the most efficient method for distributing merchandise to distant customers. But
when the company began opening actual retail stores in the 1920s, it became
captive to America's changing landscape.

Rivals like Wal-Mart and Home Depot have dealt with such changes by building
stores that amount to little more than enormous corrugated steel warehouses, and
locating them on cheap real estate out of town.

Sears has gone the opposite route, and has tried as much as possible to stay
put, selling everything from stocks and insurance to lawn mowers and women's
lingerie through expensive, urban and mall-centered stores that should have been
shut down years ago. As a result, Sears today collects just $319 in revenues per
square foot of floor space in its stores, whereas Wal-Mart brings in $390.

LATELY, a feeling of irreversible decline has taken over the company's
financials, especially with regard to merchandise sales, the heart of the
business. Revenues from merchandise sales have been falling steadily for the
last two years. And last week the company released some of its grimmest news
yet, reporting that sales in November had plunged 10.9 percent from November
2001 levels for stores open at least a full year.

And December promises to be hardly any better, with the company now saying it
expects sales during the month to register yet another decline, this time in the
"mid-single digits" range.

If so, that will be the 16th straight month of decline for the company, and
frankly, folks, it looks like a trend to me.

The truth is, Sears is not much of a retailer at all anymore - at least in terms
of the company's bottom line. Viewed realistically, and with the proper sense of
detachment, the company's entire retailing operation is now being run as little
more than a loss-leader in order to generate interest income from customers who
buy the merchandise on credit.

A year ago, the company's credit card operation already accounted for roughly 70
percent of operating income; now the credit business accounts for nearly all the
operating income the company reports.

THE business is profitable for Sears, thanks to the eye-popping rates the
company charges its customers: a staggering 21.4 percent for a plain vanilla
Sears charge card, and a seductive 2.9 percent for a Sears Gold Mastercard
(which jumps automatically to as much as 21.9 percent after six months).

Sears gets away with charging these rates because of the weak credit histories
of the borrowers, and it is these very borrowers who are among the first to
default when the economy turns south. The company has already resold more than
$17 billion of these credit card debts via a widely used marketing gimmick known
as securitization, and the delinquency and default rates on the paper is rising.

A report last month by Goldman Sachs & Co. says that nearly 7 percent of Sears'
borrowers are now at least two months behind in their payments, and that losses
on the loans are running at close to 5.75 percent.

SO, what's the company worth, really? Maybe not a lot - and certainly not as
much as it wants to be.

As of the end of the third quarter, Sears' balance sheet showed equity of $6.2
billion, or roughly $19 per share. So, with the company's stock having plunged
in the last year from a high of nearly $60 to a current price of barely $26, the
market is saying in effect that the entire business, as an operating entity, is
really worth no more than about a $7-per-share premium over the book value of
the company.

But this is a business that is now generating no cash at all, so it is hard to
make an argument for any kind of premium over the value of its assets. Even an
earnings-based valuation looks shaky.

To begin with, the company has already reported just $2.24 per share in earnings
through the end of September - and it's actually a mere $1.64 if you give effect
to certain accounting changes. In any case, that $26 market price reflects Wall
Street's expectation that full-year earnings for the company will still come in
above $4.77 - and that expectation now seems almost impossible, whatever numbers
you use.

CONSIDERING that Wall Street's track record with Sears has hardly been great (it
over-estimated the company's July-September 2002 earnings by an average of 28
percent), there's reason enough to suspect that more over-estimating is going on
now.

If so, and if earnings in the fourth quarter come in at the low end of the range
- say, $1.65 per share - instead of the mid-range $1.90 per share that firms
like Bear Stearns are now forecasting, full-year earnings will total at most
only about $3.90, suggesting a stock that could quickly be selling for less than
$22.

And it could get worse even than that. Factor in some additional charges for the
company's growing number of consumer deadbeats ($500 million in 2003 hardly
seems out of the question); jettison some $940 million in worthless goodwill;
and give a modest 5 percent haircut to inventories if the holiday season turns
out to be the mess it promises to become.

At that point balance sheet equity drops to not much more than $4.5 billion -
which puts a market price for the stock at not much more than $13 per share.

Want to get it down to single digits? Then factor in even a moderate rise in
interest rates over the next year, and billions more would have to be wiped off
the value of those credit card assets.

All in all, it's quite a mess - and one that, for now at least, few folks if any
are even thinking about. Happy Holidays.

Hard times

Despite recent shifts in merchandising and branding, Sears faces some
fundamental and possibly fatal challenges. What the retailer is up against:

* Its pricy urban stores draw just $319 in revenues per square foot, vs.
Wal-Mart's $390.

* It has more than $20 billion in long-term debt on its books.

* It derives nearly all its earnings from a vulnerable credit card business.

* December will likely be its 16th straight month of same-store sales declines.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sears store and shoppers. AP

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               5 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            February 4, 2002, Monday

INVESTOR PROPHYLACTICS

BYLINE: Christopher Byron

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 031

LENGTH: 1358 words


IT'S really tiring to turn on the TV night after night and watch commentators
beat up on Arthur Andersen's hapless legal stooge, Stanley Brand, for not being
willing to come right out and admit publicly that his client and the crew at
Enron Corp. were engaged in a colossal auditing fraud.

Enough already! Wouldn't it be better to stop kicking that particular dog for a
minute and redirect at least a little of our fire toward the folks at the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department?

The feds are, after all, the only people who really possess the power to prevent
things like Enron from happening in the first place.

But they let them go on every day of the week, from one end of Wall Street to
the other.

It is only after the fact - when the businesses have been looted and destroyed,
and people's lives have been convulsed and their savings wiped out - that the
G-men at last rouse themselves to action.

And most times all they come back with are meaningless consent decrees in which
the bad guys get to pay a fine and go right back to work.

Since Sept. 11, we've heard plenty of talk from President Bush about the need
for America to stay on "high alert" and remain "vigilant," and all that. But how
about some vigilance from America's financial cops for a change!

If they really wanted to get some bang for their buck, a good place to start
would be the companies in the Nasdaq composite index, where the tech wreck of
the last two years has wiped out more than $6 trillion in market value - a
number that dwarfs the losses on the New York Stock Exchange, where Enron was
traded.

Not all those companies had fishy financials, to be sure, but a lot of investors
could have been saved a lot of grief if the regulators had simply done some
basic due diligence regarding the audits of these outfits.

Here's an example of one that I came across just the other day: Medi-Hut
Company, Inc. of Lakewood, N.J. Now, there may be utterly nothing wrong with
Medi-Hut in any way. But on the evidence in Medi-Hut's own financials, there
certainly seems to be at least one thing about the company that deserves a
second look: the possibility that Medi-Hut's rapid growth has been generated, in
part at least, by undisclosed business ties to one of its own employees.

Medi-Hut is just a hiccup in the grand sweep of things on Wall Street - a
company with, at latest reckoning, barely $12 million in annual revenues, if
even that.

But investors have been beguiled by Medi-Hut's dramatically growing sales, which
have soared more than 15-fold in the last three years.

That in turn has lifted Medi-Hut's stock price from pennies per share three
years ago to a post-Christmas peak of nearly $14, creating a more than $200
million market cap for the company.

Now the stock has begun precipitously to weaken as doubts about its financials
have begun to spread.

But for many investors it may already be too late to escape without big losses.

Medi-Hut is run by a fellow named Joe Sanpietro and his brother Vince, who
together started the firm back in 1982 to sell syringes, condoms and other
healthcare type products in the wholesale trade.

Two-thirds of their business went to a single customer, Rugby Laboratories, in
Norcross, Ga., which employed a fellow named Larry Marasco.

In 1992, Marasco started a business of his own called Vallar Consulting Corp.,
which thereafter became a customer for Joe and Vince, whose total Medi-Hut
revenues for 1998 amounted to less than $780,000.

Most of the business came from the sale of Korean-made condoms, and most of the
rest from syringes and alcohol swabs. Not much of a business.

But in 1998 things began to change.

As the stock market soared higher and higher in the final blow-out phase of the
1990s bull market, Joe and Vince exchanged their company for a 39 percent stake
in a defunct Utah penny-stock company.

In this way, Medi-Hut became a publicly traded stock company without the expense
or bother of going through an actual IPO.

The brothers next took 350,000 of those Medi-Hut shares and swapped them, in
April of 1998, for 100 percent of Larry Marasco's Vallar Consulting outfit, and
folded it into Medi-Hut.

In the process, Marasco became a Medi-Hut vice president.

Meanwhile, Medi-Hut's revenues began to soar, and Larry Marasco may have played
an undisclosed role.

Though he had sold Vallar Consulting to Medi-Hut, Marasco owned a separate,
sound-alike outfit by the name of Larval Corp. that was in the same line of work
as Vallar had been.

There is some dispute over whether Marasco continued to own Larval after he sold
the sound-alike Vallar, but there is no question from Medi-Hut's own financials
that Larval wound up replacing Vallar as a Medi-Hut customer.

According to Medi-Hut's latest audited financial report, filed just last month
on Jan. 10, Larval Corp. accounted in 2001 for 62 percent of Medi-Hut's
revenues.

But is Marasco, who continues to be a Medi-Hut employee, also the head of
Larval?

If so, Medi-Hut's sales to Larval would have constituted a "related party
transaction," and should have been disclosed in Medi-Hut's financials.

But no such disclosure appears in the financials, even though the business
records of the Dunn & Bradstreet reporting agency - an accepted and
authoritative source of business information on small, privately held companies
such as Larval - lists Marasco as Larval's current president.

The D&B file gives Larval's only known business address as a 1,050-square-foot
storage locker in an industrial park in Farmingdale, Long Island.

I called Medi-Hut's offices in Lakewood, N.J., to ask for a comment about all
this funny business, and a man named Lawrence Simon, Medi-Hut's chief financial
officer, said it was news to him that Marasco was the man behind Larval.

Later, Simon sent a letter stating that the Dun & Bradstreet report is "in need
of an update" and Marasco "relinquished his ownership and position as an officer
with Larval Corp. a few years ago. Therefore, there is no relationship to
disclose."

Yet Dun & Bradstreet's current "Business Information Report" on Larval Corp.
contains an entry that reads, "On June 21, 2001, Larry Marasco, pres., deferred
financial statement. He submitted the following partial estimates dated June 21,
2001: projected annual sales are $3,500,000."

So let's sum up: The principal customer of a Nasdaq-traded company with a $200
million market cap turns out to be a 1,050-square foot storage locker that may
be secretly leased by one of the company's own employees? Sounds good to me. So
is Medi-hut on the square?

Maybe Medi-Hut is on the square, and maybe it isn't.

But I - for one - would certainly feel better about handing over my money for
some of its stock if I knew someone at the SEC - indeed, anyone - was bothering
even to read the financials of public companies before waving them past the
metal detectors on the way to the capital trough of Wall Street.

Yet I'm not holding my breath for any answers, and you shouldn't either - lest
you turn blue.

In the current climate on Wall Street, we'll all probably wear ourselves out
first taking free swats at the Enron piata.

* Please send e-mail to:

cbyron@nypost.com

---------

Vital signs

The SEC is so tied up with Enron, it somehow missed looking at Medi-Hut Co.,
maker of syringers, condoms and other health care products. What's going on:

* Medi-Hut's largest customer, Larval, is owned by a Medi-Hut employee, Larry
Marasco.

* Larval replaced a business (similarly-named Vallar) that had been folded into
Medi-Hut, and had also been owned by Marasco.

* Larval's only known business address is a 1,050 square foot storage locker in
an industrial park in Farmingdale, L.I.

* The name "Wayne Licker" is on Larval's checks. He is identified in 1979
newspaper clipping as having been arrested by federal agents for attempting to
sell two million fake Laetrile tablets to a drug company in New Jersey.

* In late January, Medi-Hut replaced its accountants with new auditors from the
Grant Thornton accounting firm.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               6 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 11, 2002, Monday

KRISPY KREME BITES

BYLINE: Christopher Byron

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 031

LENGTH: 1438 words


IT'S been great to watch the gang from Enron Corp. weasel around in front of the
cameras regarding who said what to whom as they looted and robbed the
Houston-based energy giant. But if you want to know where some smart folks on
Wall Street think the whole subject of fishy accounting is headed next, then
look no further than a harmless-sounding financial concept that's been repeated
a lot in the Enron scandal lately: so-called "Special Purpose Entities."

I talked to a hedge fund manager in Boston the other day who said he's now
spending all day and night tracking down companies with Special Purpose Entities
in their financial filings, and then shorting their stocks with no further
questions asked.

"These things are radioactive," says my source. "In the current climate on Wall
Street, they're just deadly." That's because Special Purpose Entities can be
used to distort and prettify the true picture of a company's financial health,
seducing investors into acquiring shares that turn out to be cream-curdling
horrors once the rouge and lipstick is removed.

A special purpose entity - known among the cognoscenti as an "SPE" - is the
financial equivalent of a magic wand. With the single stroke of an SPE you can
make an entire mountain of debt disappear from a company's balance sheet.

Oh, the debt is there, all right - or at least let us say, the obligation
represented by the debt is still there. The only thing that actually changes is
that the auditors can no longer see it. The debt simply gets moved into that
make-believe land known as Off The Balance Sheet.

We'll look at a recent use of this prestidigitation in a minute - a conjurer's
trick by which the Krispy Kreme doughnut company is using a Special Purpose
Entity and something known as a "synthetic lease" to make an entire doughnut
factory disappear. But first some background on what SPEs really are, and just
how widespread their use has become.

Special Purpose Entities are accounting gimmicks set up to help a company switch
its money from one pocket to the other. There are supposedly lots of good,
sound, legitimate reasons why a company might want to do this, but the
explanations are so complicated I can't follow them. In many cases, the whole
rigmarole boils down to legalized self-dealing, which is what the crew at Enron
tried to pull off. In other cases, a company just seems to want to pump itself
up and pretend to be bigger than it really is - like the guy who stuffs a wad of
socks in his jeans before walking into the bar.

There are currently over a thousand SPEs mentioned in the financial filings of
publicly traded companies, and untold thousands more that have been set up on
the sly in offshore tax-haven hideouts like the Cayman Islands, where the Enron
gang stashed their loot.

SPEs are normally set up as partnerships, with a "general partner" who calls the
shots, and a group of limited partners who put up the money. The assets or
liabilities that get shuffled in and out of the SPE can be anything from office
buildings to software licenses, property mortgages, financial derivatives,
high-tech equipment, and even fleets of automobiles. In all cases the idea is to
tart up the company's financials by making the business look healthier than it
really is - without actually coming right out and lying.

Let's imagine an office building that has an appraised market value of $35
million. Let's further imagine that the building is rented out to a single
corporate tenant for $3.5 million annually. How does the tenant cut its rental
load? Easy, just wheel in an SPE and a "synthetic lease." First step is to find
a bank that will play ball. The bank creates an SPE partnership, then sells a 3
percent stake in the partnership - worth $1 million - to some of the bank's
favored fat cat private banking clients. Next, the bank loans $34 million of its
own funds to the partnership. The loan represents the other 97 percent of the
partnership's capital. After that, the partnership takes the entire $35 million
wad of cash and buys the office building from its owner. Then the partnership
turns around and begins charging the building's tenant what amounts to an
occupancy fee. The fee is equal to just a fraction of a percentage point over
the cost of the money that the bank itself has lent to the partnership. The net
effect is often to cut the tenant's occupancy cost on the building in half,
thereby making the company's profit margin improve.

But there's a catch. To get this juicy deal, the tenant has to agree that at the
end of some set period of time - five years, let us say - it will buy back the
building from the partnership for the full $35 million. This pledge is a real
obligation that will one day place a burden on the entire corporation. But
because that burden lies off in the future, it doesn't get recorded on the
balance sheet. So far as the auditors are concerned, it simply doesn't exist.

A fine example of this sort of thing lies buried in the footnotes of a recent
financial filing by the Krispy Kreme doughnut folks. Since April of 2000, when
Krispy Kreme went public in a Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown IPO at $21 per share,
the stock has soared nearly 400 percent in the belief that the American appetite
for junk food is insatiable. But the stock has lately begun to weaken as sales
growth from existing stores has slowed, meaning that future growth in the
business will come largely from simply opening more and more new stores - a
gimmick that will eventually run out of steam.

So insiders have begun bailing out of the stock in droves - a clear sign of
problems in the business. Since last autumn, the company's insiders look to have
been making nearly as much money by selling their own shares of Krispy Kreme
stock as the company has been collecting in revenues by selling actual
doughnuts. What's more, even franchisees have begun selling their operations
back to the company, recalling the same sort of behavior that spread through the
Boston Chicken chain as that business began to run into trouble.

With the company's margins being squeezed, the last thing any man- agement wants
to do is add yet more overhead to the operation. But what do you do if you're in
the doughnut business and you've now got so many stores up and running that
you've simply got to add more doughnut making capacity? Can you get yourself a
doughnut factory for free - or at least let us say, make the cost invisible for
the time being?

That's where a SPE and a "synthetic lease" comes in handy. Back in March the
company thus announced that it plans to spend $30 million to build some 164,000
square feet of additional doughnut manufacturing capacity for the business, at a
location in Illinois. The facility will increase the square footage of the
company's properties by more than 50 percent, but you won't find the cost of the
project - or the asset that results from it - turning up anywhere on the balance
sheet: no increase in debt, and no increase in assets either. For all practical
purposes, it'll simply be the Factory That Isn't There, financed off the balance
sheet by, as the footnote puts it, a "synthetic lease arrangement with a bank."

Now I am sure the Krispy Kreme folks have plenty of good, sensible-sounding
reasons why all this makes great business sense. But I'm one of those old
fashioned guys who doesn't want to buy a company in which a third of all its
property and equipment turn out to require a lot of "explaining" about how come
you can't see it stated on the balance sheet. In the current climate of
Enronitis, lots of investors are starting to think the same way - and that's why
these SPE things are becoming the new toxic waste of Wall Street.

Tastes sweet, but something's sour

Krispy Kreme is using something called Special Purpose Entities to make business
look better than it is. SPEs are widespread on Wall Street, but here's what's
happening at the doughnut shop:

* Last March, Krispy Kreme announced plans to spend $30 million on a factory -
but it used an SPE to make the factory disappear from the balance sheet. Only a
footnote indicates there has been a "synthetic lease arrangement with a bank."

* The SPE, basically an accounting gimmick, helps Krispy Kreme switch its money
from one pocket to the other. SPEs are normally set up as partnerships, with a
"general partner" who calls the shots, and a group of limited partners who put
up the money.

* Now Krispy Kreme stock has begun to weaken as sales growth has slowed.
Insiders have begun bailing out of the stock.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: N.Y. Post: Jennifer Weisbord

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               7 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 17, 2002, Sunday

SPITZER'S HOT AIR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 032

LENGTH: 517 words


President Bush's Clear Skies Initiative, which he announced last week, would do
more in the name of improving the nation's air quality than anything America has
ever done before.

Maybe too much.

At day's end, it would cost tens - maybe hundreds - of billions of dollars for
both government and private compliance measures and would make "greenhouse gas"
reduction a priority.

The plan is so far-reaching, in fact, that even some of the more activist green
groups have praised it.

Not Eliot Spitzer.

New York's greener-than-thou attorney general sees the plan as a "rollback" of
current policies. He says it would likely bring "devastating" consequences to
New York and other Northeast states:

"The Bush administration's air-pollution proposal is a grave disappointment for
every American who wants to breathe clean air. . . . The only beneficiaries of
this indefensible policy will be the owners of dirty power plants, coal
companies and the oil industry."

Wouldn't want to benefit people who produce anything as evil as energy.

Spitzer needs a chat with the folks at the Adirondack Council, a group that
speaks for the 6 million-acre Adirondack Park in upstate New York, where the
notion of "acid rain" was born.

"The president's plan would end a decades-long nightmare for New York and New
England, where we have been suffering the most severe acid rain damage in
America," the council's acting executive director, Bernard Melewski, said last
week.

"This plan would make cuts deep enough to stop the damage and allow our battered
lakes and forests to recover."

Actually, given the toll of Bush's proposal - on both the eonomy and the
taxpayer - you've got to wonder if Bush went too far to appease the
tree-huggers.

Clear Skies calls for both mandatory and voluntary reductions in emissions,
including "greenhouse gases," which supposedly trap heat in the atmosphere and
drive up temperatures.

To be sure, it's a vast improvement over radical, ill-conceived and patently
unfair plans like the Kyoto Protocol.

It would cut emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury by some 70
percent. And it looks to cut the amount of greenhouse gases emitted - relative
to U.S. economic output - by 18 percent over the next 10 years.

Compare that with Kyoto - which fixed caps on emissions in a way that penalized
America for being productive.

Still, Bush's plan is plainly a concession to those who insist that urgent
action is needed to halt global warming.

Regardless of cost.

Regardless of whether such a trend even exists.

The truth is that no one really knows whether the Industrial Revolution created
a greenhouse effect and caused temperatures to rise.

Climatologists understand that the Earth has undergone numerous radical,
long-term swings in climate - and is probably in the grip of a warming trend
that began hundreds of years ago.

To act on premature claims that curbing emissions of these gases will stave off
some hypothetical disaster - and must be done at any price - makes no sense.

There must be a balance.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eliot Spitzer

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               8 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 11, 2002, Sunday

BULL'S EYE

BYLINE: Eric Moskowitz, Lisa Marsh, Lois Weiss and Jessica Sommar

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 445 words


SOUND OVER SENSE, SAYS WSJ REPORTER

In these confusing times, even the Wall Street Journal it seems has trouble
hacking through the alphabet soup of finance.

Lee Gomes' BoomTown column in the "B" section of Monday's Journal read, "EBITA
meet your new playmate . . ." The column was discussing an imaginary cousin of
the well-worn and now-ill-favored accounting method that "stands for earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization."

Umm . . . Did Gomes mean EBITDA - earnings before interest, taxes, DEPRECIATION,
and amortization?

Gomes said he had used EBITA on purpose because, he noted, ". . . frankly, EBITA
sounded better."

THE WEEK'S WINNERS & LOSERS

Winners

Jon Miller was named chairman and CEO of the America Online unit of AOL Time
Warner, succeeding the recently dumped Bob Pittman.

Bonnie Fuller, editor in chief of Us Weekly, saw her mag's newsstand sales jump
30 percent as its battle with People intensified.

John Chambers, president and CEO of tech giant Cisco, reported strong earnings,
helping spark a blockbuster week for stocks.

Frank and Malachy McCourt won a lawsuit against a Chicago-based actor and
playwright who wanted a slice of profits from bestsellers "Angela's Ashes" and
"Tis."

Losers

Charles Dolan, patriarch of the Cablevision family, was forced to close more
than half of its The Wiz stores and plans to sell off its Clearview Cinemas
chain.

Bruno Cohen, head of bull-market messenger CNBC, was canned as the financial
network struggles to find its place in a new market climate.

Sam Waksal, the former Imclone CEO, was indicted on charges of securities fraud,
perjury and obstruction of justice.

USE FLEET KIOSKS? YOU GOTTA WEIGH IN

A man (not a woman) must have designed this.

Fleet's new banking centers in Midtown will be outfitted with some
state-of-the-art technology - "pressure sensitive mats"- in front of each
investment kiosk to distinguish you by weight from the next customer in line.

That's so less . . . uh . . . fleet customers who use the kiosks won't have
their privacy invaded when they finally split and the next person in line uses
the terminal.

But bank officials haven't recognized all the problems this weighty situation
can create. What if in the middle of a stock trade, your chow chow moves off to
sniff someone else's leg and abruptly changes the weight profile?

The mat certainly can't tell.

A Fleet spokesperson, however, insisted the machines won't cut off access if a
customer's weight changes - because the information isn't being stored anywhere.

"That takes too much memory," the spokesperson said.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: SAM WAKSAL
JON MILLER

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               9 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           January 2, 2002, Wednesday

MIKE THE KNIFE: NEW MAYOR CALLS FOR 20% CUTS

BYLINE: DAVID SEIFMAN City Hall Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 718 words


Mayor Bloomberg bluntly warned New Yorkers in his inaugural address yesterday
that the city's finances are stretched so thin, "We will not even be able to
afford everything we currently have."

Addressing 4,000 frigid guests in a flag-draped City Hall Plaza, the 108th mayor
moved quickly to lower budget expectations by saying he would cut his 500-person
staff by 20 percent.

He also challenged other newly elected officials to do the same.

"Rebuilding our city, restoring our infrastructure, continuing the fight against
crime, and reforming our schools will not be easy in the current economic
climate," Bloomberg said.

The billionaire political novice spoke of collective sacrifice moments after
taking the oath of office next to his mother, Charlotte, who turns 93 today, and
younger daughter, Georgina.

"It will require tough decisions and hard choices by all of us, in government,
the nonprofit sector, business and labor," he said.

Without mentioning the projected $4 billion budget gap for the city's fiscal
year beginning July 1, Bloomberg added, "We will not be able to afford all that
we want. We will not even be able to afford everything we currently have."

Bloomberg's call for austerity - coming on top of a 15 percent budget reduction
imposed by former Mayor Rudy Giuliani last month - got a reception almost as
chilly as the weather.

"I can't do that," a stunned Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum was spotted telling
her husband, Victor, after Bloomberg urged a 20 percent staffing reduction.

Comptroller Bill Thompson said he couldn't swallow a downsizing of that
magnitude and still do his job.

"You would not be able to meet the mandates of the office," Thompson told
reporters.

Bloomberg's introductory message to the city wasn't all gloom and doom.

He also promised to restore New York to its full glory "to honor the memory of
those we have lost" in the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center.

"We will rebuild, renew and remain the capital of the world," he proclaimed, as
Gov. Pataki, Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles Schumer and former Mayors
Ed Koch, David Dinkins and Giuliani listened from front-row seats.

Schumer let out a whoop when he heard Bloomberg - a Republican - say that he
expected President Bush to "fulfill that explicit pledge" to provide the city
with at least $20 billion in aid.

The city, so far, is on track to receive only about $11 billion.

Before the chief judge of New York state, Judith Kaye, administered the oath of
office, Bette Midler sang the national anthem and several religious leaders
offered prayers.

Afterward, trumpeter Wynton Marsalis played "America the Beautiful." The
ceremony was hosted by Met pitcher Al Leiter.

Although the new mayor went out of his way to praise Giuliani, he made it clear
he would follow a different path.

In sharp contrast to Giuliani's take-no-prisoners approach, Bloomberg promised
to forge "a new partnership" - with Washington, with Albany and with municipal
unions. Indeed, he said, "with all new Yorkers."

He even suggested that consensus-building would at long last produce mayoral
control of the public schools.

The mayor - who still heads a media empire bearing his name - urged business
leaders to stand firm in their commitment to the city.

"This is no time to leave the Big Apple," he declared.

Down the road, Bloomberg said, he envisioned a city resurgent with "big ideas"
and "big projects," including world-class athletic facilities.

That was an apparent reference to a plan drafted by Giuliani and now being
considered by Bloomberg to build new ballparks for the Yankees and Mets.

WHERE THE CUTS WOULD COME

Number of staff/20 percent staff cut/Estimated Savings

Mayor's office: 100/20/$2 million *

Public Advocate: 42/8/$500,000

City Comptroller: 770/154/$10.7 million

City Council 367/73/$9.2 million

Bronx Borough President 116/23/$1.5 million Bklyn Borough President 95/19/$1.3
million Queens Borough President 92/18/$1.2 million

Staten Island Borough President 80/16/$1 million Manhattan Borough President
84/17/$1 million

(Source: Mayor's 2002 Executive Budget/*Mayor's office savings is esimated based
on an average salary of $50,000. Information for borough presidents is as of
June 30, 2000.)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               10 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 17, 2002, Sunday

STOCK PAYOFFS EMERGE DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO SEE BOUNCE


BYLINE: EMILY LAMBERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 485 words


Some emerging markets may be living up to their name.

It seems hard to believe if you've followed Argentina's economic collapse, but
the trend among developing countries has been positive this year. The U.S.
indices have been inching upward. Meanwhile, many emerging markets have been on
a tear.

"The consensus seems to be we're coming out of global recession. Emerging
markets are always beneficiaries of that," said Bill Rocco, a senior analyst at
independent research firm Morningstar.

And some bullish pros think emerging markets are poised for a major break. Mark
Petrie, vice president of research at California-based Hokanson Capital
Management, believes they'll get an added boost from the fact that U.S. stocks
are trading at high multiples - which could send investors here hunting for
cheaper opportunities elsewhere.

"Faster growth in emerging markets and cheaper stock markets - that combination
is potential," he said.

Individual companies he recommended checking out include Brazilian oil company
Petrobras; Mexican food and beverage giant Femsa; and in India, software company
Infosys Technologies and Doctor Reddy's Laboratories, a drug firm.

"These are just some of the many companies that are very well-managed and that
just happen to be in emerging markets," said Petrie.

But Rocco said not to underestimate the risk that goes with these markets, where
business conditions can change quickly and drastically. Political issues and
accounting issues can pose problems.

"There have been several junctures in recent years when people have been
optimistic about emerging markets. At times, they've been right . . . Other
times they've been wrong or early," Rocco said.

Also, there is great diversity within emerging markets. The California Public
Employees' Retirement System recently reviewed and ranked them according to such
standards as labor practices, investor protections and political stability.

Though its study was not meant to be the last word for investors, it deemed 13
markets worth investigating: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, the Czech Republic,
Hungary, Israel, Mexico, Peru, Poland, South Africa, South Korea, Taiwan and
Turkey.

The same study from CalPERS excluded many prominent markets, including China,
Russia, India, Thailand and Indonesia.

Individual investors can buy into emerging markets through mutual funds;
American depositary receipts, which are basically proxies for many foreign
stocks and trade on U.S. exchanges; or exchange-traded funds, which are baskets
of securities that trade like stocks.

But because the field is so volatile, Rocco recommended interested investors put
money - sparingly - in a diversified emerging market fund.

The top diversified emerging market funds, as selected by Morningstar, are
Oppenheimer Developing, T. Rowe Price Emerging Markets Stock, Pioneer Emerging
Markets and Dreyfus Emerging Markets.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               11 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           April 17, 2002, Wednesday

WINE FOR APARTMENT DWELLERS' CELLARS

BYLINE: William Neuman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 041

LENGTH: 277 words


HOW do you cellar wine in a New York apartment?Cellaring means to keep wine,
usually red, for a number of years while it improves with age. Experts say it
ought to be done in a cool, dark place at a constant 55 degrees.

That might be OK if you live in a French Chateau or a suburban house with a
basement - but most New Yorkers don't.

Jay McInerney, the novelist and wine writer, solves the problem by keeping a
400-bottle electric cooler in his apartment, the overflow going to a Midtown
company renting climate-controlled cellar space.

Others store their good bottles under a spare bed.

But there is an indestructible wine New Yorkers can cellar without care.
Madeira, a fortified wine from the Portuguese island of the same name - and a
great after dinner, instead-of-dessert wine.

Madeira's been made for some 300 years in more or less the same fashion. Early
on, exporters found the wine got better after long, hot sea voyages here through
the tropics.

Now the winemakers on Madeira cook it. But don't expect it to improve with age.
Open or closed, it never changes.

Madeiras can be dry or sweet. I prefer those made from the bual or boal grape,
or wines from the malmsey grape, which are sweet but with a jolt of acidity.

Justino's Boal 10 years old ($30): Incredible, with layers of black tea, toffee,
nut, orange and fig.

Justino's Malmsey 10 years old ($30): Aromas of oranges, tea, and celery.

Justino's Old Reserve 10 years old ($24): Rich and mellow, caramel and
chocolate.

Blandy's Rich Malmsey 10 years old ($35): Nuts, caramel, butterscotch.

Blandy's Verdelho 5 years old ($20): Cumquat, quince, apple, marzipan.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               12 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 23, 2002, Tuesday

CARDINAL RULE IN ROME

BYLINE: Neal Travis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 011

LENGTH: 943 words


HIS years of practicing politics within the closest Vatican circles will really
pay off in Rome this week for Edward Cardinal Egan at the extraordinary meeting
in Rome of America's princes of the church.

Egan has always been known as more of a management type than a guardian of his
flock. (Over the years in Bridgeport, Conn., he learned a lot about executive
strategy from his very good friend, General Electric's legendary chief, Jack
Welch.)

So church observers tell me this week's conclave will be ruled by Egan and that
we shouldn't expect any stunning public pronouncements to emerge from it.
"You're not going to get the church equivalent of the Enron debacle," says one
of my sources.

"What will happen is that Egan, with the full concurrence of the pope, will tell
the rest of the American cardinals to proceed with putting their houses in order
- but no one is going to be fired or forced to resign," says this source. "That
includes Bernard Cardinal Law, who seems to be the most at risk. Egan will save
his skin and that of the others - and will have their total loyalty for all
time."

My sources suggest one thing that will quietly emerge from the Rome talks is a
new willingness to listen to "progressive" Catholics. Devout, caring and
concerned men and women (Mario Cuomo comes to mind) have been virtually
excommunicated because they have sometimes challenged church dogma. It will be
that the pope and his cardinals may finally be forced to hear the voice of some
moderates.

Footnote: I find it disgraceful that any churchman would attempt to blame
America's "moral climate" for the current scandal. The terrible sins committed
by a tiny minority of priests are not isolated.

In Nigeria, bishops have been accused of raping nuns; in Ireland, the church has
just paid out something like $100 million to victims of abuse. Does American
culture deserve to be blamed for this, too?

Baring witness

NEW York male nurse Ted Maher, accused in the mystery death of billionaire
banker Edmond Safra, is going to have some high-powered help from home at his
trial this summer. I understand Maher's lead attorney, Michael J. Griffith, just
retained John Timoney as an expert witness for the defense. Timoney, one of the
smartest and most articulate cops I've ever met, was a top aide to NYPD
Commissioner Bill Bratton and went on to be Philadelphia's police chief.
Griffith says Timoney was recommended to him by Bratton and John Miller, the
star ABC newsman who worked with them both. Timony, who recently went into the
private security business, is expected to testify that it was the ineptness of
Monaco's police and fire departments that killed Safra, and that Maher was just
a misguided man who wanted to be a hero.

Society register

WHILE we wait to learn who will succeed Beverly Sills as chairman of Lincoln
Center, another of the city's important cultural positions is being decided. I'm
told that Hank Greenberg, chief of American International Group, has finally
decided to step down as chairman of the prestigious Asia Society. A solid block
of members is backing Richard Holbrooke to succeed Hank in the fall. Holbrooke
has impeccable credentials, having served as undersecretary of state for
President Jimmy Carter and as UN Ambassador for President Bill Clinton. He would
have been Secretary of State if Al Gore had won the last election.

Fantastic foresight

SOME people think producer Dick Wolf is psychic or maybe just wolf-cunning.
Sunday night on NBC, his "Law & Order" did it again with a fictionalization of
the Robert Blake case, right down to the evidence that the serial number had
been filed off Blake's gun. Last month, "Law & Order" aired a spot-on version of
the San Francisco dog-mauling case the night before the dog owners went on trial
in Los Angeles. I don't know what NBC would do without Wolf, who has up to five
hours a week of prime time on the network with spin-offs of the show - that
originally wasn't expected to do anything much. But if he ever does decide on a
career change, he'd make a marvelous district attorney.

Harrowing 'People'

INSIDERS who are just getting to see sneak previews of the Miramax film "People
I Know," starring Al Pacino, were maybe expecting a knockabout farce, given that
Jon Robin Baitz's script is loosely based on the life and times of the brilliant
but most definitely eccentric p.r. maestro Bobby Zarem. Instead, the movie is a
harrowing and heartfelt story that could be the modern version of "Death of a
Salesman," and seems sure to get Pacino an Oscar nomination. (The comparison
with "Salesman" collapses when you recall Arthur Miller's famous line about a
shoeshine and a smile, and know that Zarem only wears sneakers.)

Wedding belle

BEING romantically linked with George Clooney (and, Lord knows, there have been
so many women supposedly coupling with him that one's suspicions are aroused)
obviously doesn't do any harm to a girl's reputation. Early next month at a
chateau in France, former French waitress and Clooney date Celine Balitran will
marry David Rosenthal, the handsome son of Phoenix House drug savior Dr. Mitch
Rosenthal. I'm sure George and his pot-bellied pig, Max, will send their best
wishes.

Hurley-burly

WHILE Liz Hurley is still trying to establish the paternity of her new son, the
lad won't lack for uncles and such. Elton John and his lover, David Furnish,
have taken Hurley and the baby under their wing, even to the extent of setting
up an all-blue nursery in Elton's mansion just outside London. They say that
when the christening ceremony comes around, Elton and David will be named as
godparents.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               13 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 29, 2002, Monday

POL PLANS GAS GRILL

BYLINE: RITA DELFINER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 023

LENGTH: 496 words


A company clearing the potent greenhouse gas methane from the Fresh Kills
landfill will soon extract 40 percent more a day - but a city councilman today
plans to grill sanitation officials on why it's not more.

"It seems to me they should be closer to their goal of capturing all the methane
than they are now," said Michael McMahon (D-S.I.), chairman of the council's
Sanitation Committee.

"It's extremely important because we're eliminating a pollutant from the
atmosphere that contributes to the greenhouse effect," said McMahon, whose
committee holds a hearing today on solid-waste management issues.

A spokesman for GSF Energy LLC told The Post it is right on target for
extracting 40 percent more landfill gas by May, but that the Sept. 11 terrorist
attack is delaying its schedule to finish two other processing plants at the
Staten Island site this year.

"The schedule of those plants and the availability of the methane to process
through them has been negatively impacted by the events of Sept. 11 because
you've got all this extra debris from the World Trade Center on top of the
land," said GSF spokesman John Laudenflager.

"It prevents you from drilling wells to get to the methane," he said.

Landfill gas, a putrid mixture of methane, carbon dioxide and volatile organic
chemicals that can belch into the air, is created when garbage decomposes.

Fresh Kills, which closed last summer, has about 145 million tons of waste. A
landfill keeps producing methane for years.

The good news is that the potent pollutant can be turned into a profitable
source of energy.

After landfill gas, which is 50 percent methane and 47 percent carbon dioxide,
is separated, the methane can be used as heating fuel.

The city began recovering methane in the 1980s. In 1998, it entered into a
20-year agreement with GSF Energy, which will pay the city $1 million a year
until 2018 for the right to mine and sell the methane.

Currently, GSF sucks 10 million cubic feet of landfill gas through its
extraction wells daily - resulting in about 5 million cubic feet of methane,
some of which is used to run the plant.

Another 6 million cubic feet of unprocessed landfill gas is "flared" - that is,
burned. Flaring is a federally approved method for controlling the buildup of
the landfill gas.

The newly upgraded plant, which is awaiting electrical connections and is slated
to start processing in May, will be able to process a total of 14.5 million
cubic feet of landfill gas a day.

And at that point, "we will virtually eliminate the flaring," Laudenflager said.
The two new plants under construction will each be able to process an additional
4.5 million cubic feet of landfill gas.

GSF pumps the methane into a system that can be tapped by KeySpan or Con Ed.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BIG STINK:Fresh Kills landfill produces 5 million cubic feet of methane
a day for GSF Energy, but that's not enough, says a city councilman.  N.Y. Post:
David Rentas

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               14 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 5, 2002, Sunday

PIONEER EQUITY LIKES DIVIDEND-PAYING STOCKS

BYLINE: Beth Piskora

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 563 words


DIVIDEND-paying stocks are coming back into vogue as investors look for ways to
guarantee a positive return, even if stock prices don't move up.

"There's a great case to be made today for stocks that pay dividends," said John
Carey, portfolio manager of the Pioneer Equity Income fund, which invests
primarily in dividend-paying stocks.

Among the many reasons for buying dividend-paying stocks now, Carey cites the
low interest rates available from other short-term investments, the high quality
of such stocks and the lower volatility.

In the go-go 1990s, investors scoffed at dividends.

Why pay out part of a company's profits to shareholders when those dollars could
buy equipment, fund new research or otherwise contribute to growth?

But with the high-flyers grounded and the market still battling a two-year
slump, dividends have returned to investors' most-wanted lists.

As a result, the dividend-paying stocks in the S&P 500 index have outperformed
the others for two years running.

That's helped the Pioneer Equity Income fund. In 2000, when the market was first
entering its post-exuberant downfall, the fund gained 13 percent. In the past
five years, the average annual gain was 9.81 percent.

"Solid performance by dividend-paying companies is nothing new," said Carey.
"Dividends have been a big part of the market returns for decades. Over the 20
years ending December 31, 2001, reinvested dividends made up 44 percent of the
S&P 500's total return. And if you take a longer period - from December 31,
1958, to December 31, 2001 - you'll see that 76 percent of the index's total
return came from income reinvestment."

The historical record is just one reason to look at dividend-paying stocks.

But there are many others. Companies that pay out dividends are less likely to
run into accounting problems, for example.

"Companies send important signals about their financial health and earnings
prospects by way of their dividend policies," said Carey.

"We feel greater confidence in a company's financials and the reliability of its
cash flows if it has a history of increasing its dividend. Dividend increases
show that management has a positive outlook on the company's future, while
reductions often imply the opposite."

In the past, utilities have been one of the best investment choices for
investors interested in dividends.

That's still partly true, but there have been some important changes.

"In the age of deregulation, stock selection is key," said Carey.

"Deregulation brought with it opportunities for companies to make significant
mistakes. We weigh the regulatory climate in individual states. We were able to
steer clear of California, for example, and we avoided energy-trading companies"
like Enron.

Some of the utilities the fund holds include Duke Energy, American Power and
Alleghany Power.

Outside the utility sector, other big dividend-paying stocks that are in the
fund include ChevronTexaco, SBC Communications, Fifth Third Bancorp,
International Business Machines and DuPont.

Fund at a glance

Name Pioneer Equity Income

Portfolio manager John Carey

Top holdings

ChevronTexaco

Exxon Mobil

SBC Communications

Paccar

Fifth Third Bancorp

Five-year annualized gain 9.81%

Fees

Load: 5.75%

Expense: 1.06%

Phone 800-225-6292

Web site www.pioneerfunds.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               15 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 7, 2002, Tuesday

VOTING A SPIT IN FACE

BYLINE: George Willis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 073

LENGTH: 614 words


IF the Nets need any more motivation in their best-of-seven series against the
Hornets, it will come today when Byron Scott is snubbed for the NBA's Coach of
the Year Award. All indications are the honor will go to Detroit coach Rick
Carlisle, who deserves praise for guiding the Pistons to the playoffs this year,
but shouldn't win the award over Scott.

Furthermore, if all indications are correct, Jason Kidd won't be named the
league's MVP when it's announced later this week, meaning the Nets will have
been ignored when it comes to the NBA's top honors. The Most Improved Player of
the Year Award went to the Pacers Jermaine O'Neal. The Sixth Man Award was voted
to the Pistons Corliss Williamson.

Clearly, all the Nets have accomplished this year did not fully impress the
panel of sportswriters and broadcasters throughout the United States and Canada,
who vote on such awards. It makes you wonder what they were watching the past
seven months. The fact that the Nets finished with the best record in the
Eastern Conference at a franchise-best 52-30 is enough to warrant Scott winning
the coveted honor. In addition, their 26-win improvement over last year's 26-56
record was the best in the NBA. It was even better than the Pistons, who were
50-32 this year after going 32-50 last year.

When it comes to changing the climate of a beleaguered franchise, there has been
no greater turn-around than what the Nets have experienced this year. Before
this season, they had won at least 40 games only once in the previous seven
years.

But a franchise that was cursed, is now in the second round of the playoffs,
taking a 1-0 lead into tonight's game against the Hornets. There's a realistic
chance they could reach the NBA Finals.

Clearly, the majority of the voters must not have understood the depth of the
despair the Nets franchise was in. All the Pearl Washingtons, Yinka Dares,
Dennis Hopsons, Ed O'Bannons and other wasted draft picks made the franchise a
laughing stock, if anyone cared to laugh. Well-meaning coaches like Bill Fitch,
John Calipari and Don Casey thought they could change things but couldn't. Scott
and GM Rod Thorn did.

Truth is, there's no way a single vote should go to Carlisle over Scott, and
this is no slight on Carlisle. No doubt, he should be applauded for what he
accomplished in Detroit this year. He has brought a defensive toughness that's
been missing from that team since Chuck Daley's Bad Boy era.

But the Pistons' numbers are not better than those of the Nets, who won two more
games during the regular season. Plus, Carlisle, who began his coaching career
in 1989 as an assistant with the Nets, took over a team coming off a down year,
but not a down era. The Pistons were in the playoffs two years ago, losing in
three games to the Heat. Over the last seven years, they've been to the playoffs
five times.

Perhaps, the voters didn't give Scott the credit he deserves because they feel
Kidd played a more instrumental role in the Nets' success. Perhaps Scott was
viewed like Pat Riley was when he coached the Lakers and Magic Johnson, or like
Phil Jackson was when he had Michael Jordan and the Bulls. Their coaching
efforts were downplayed because they had the game's best players. But if that is
the case with the Scott, why isn't Kidd going to win the MVP? None of it makes
sense.

The only way the Nets can right this wrong is to beat the Hornets in this
best-of-seven series and meet the Pistons for the right to advance to the NBA
Finals. Only then can they earn a measure of revenge. The Nets have more to play
for than they did two days ago. Now they're playing for the respect of their
coach and their team.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               16 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            June 26, 2002, Wednesday

JITTERY INVESTORS BAIL OUT; NASDAQ HITS SEPT. LOWS

BYLINE: BETH PISKORA

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 472 words


Wall Street went on a downward spiral that sliced 155 points off the Dow
industrials and put the Nasdaq composite within a point of its post-Sept. 11
lows.

When the Conference Board said yesterday that its consumer confidence index
declined four points in June, stocks fell, wiping out $178.5 billion in investor
wealth in just one day.

"A slip in consumer confidence has dampened the jubilant spirit on Wall Street,"
said Jocelynn Drake, an analyst with Schaeffer's Investment Research, reflecting
on another down day for the Dow and the Nasdaq.

But others, including the Conference Board itself, say the sliding markets are
actually the reason for low confidence.

"Weak labor market conditions, generally soft business conditions and waning
public confidence in questionable business practices have helped erode consumer
confidence," said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board.

Either way, investors were not happy.

The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 155.00 to 9,126.82. The S&P 500 index
fell 16.58 to 976.14. The technology-packed Nasdaq composite index dumped 36.35
to 1,423.99.

Of course, there are many other reasons the markets turned bearish.

For one, the U.S. government's budget deficit may hit $160 billion in the
current fiscal year.

"That's a far cry from the $9 billion projection the administration made at the
beginning of this year," said Tom Daschle, the Senate Majority Leader.

The incredible-growing budget is hurting the U.S. dollar.

The dollar fell to 121.38 Japanese yen, down from 121.71 the previous day. The
dollar also fell against the euro, now at 1.0220, from 1.0302 euros.

"The decline in the dollar has not been so dramatic," said Alex Patelis, a
senior economist for Citigroup Asset Management. "If one looks back to 1985 to
1987, the last time the dollar fell, the results were a steeper yield curve and
better U.S. exports. But the dollar fell 40 percent against other major
currencies that time."

Some Wall Street wags say the Federal Reserve may be forced to cut short-term
interest rates - probably not at the conclusion of its meeting today, but some
time later this year.

But Patelis disagreed.

"The Federal Reserve is not likely to respond to a decline in the dollar," he
said. "It has not done so historically. The Fed likes to look at the whole
economy."

The Fed is not expected to make any interest-rate change today, but investors
will closely monitor the wording of the Fed's statement to gauge how the U.S.
economy is doing.

Even if the economy is improving, stocks could be held back by lack of profit
improvement. Just yesterday, FedEx dropped $8.02, or 14 percent, to $48.00 - its
biggest one-day plunge since the stock market crash of 1987 - when it said Wall
Street earnings estimates were much too high.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               17 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             July 12, 2002, Friday

LET'S SLAY TWO! - TIGERS AND DEVIL RAYS MUST DIE - AND THEY'RE NOT ALONE

BYLINE: Kevin Kernan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 119

LENGTH: 651 words


GOING, going, gone.

That's baseball's favorite call. It takes on a whole new meaning now with Czar
Bud's declaration the wolf is at the door for two major teams, the Detroit
Tigers and Tampa Bay Devil Rays, according to sources, and is closing in on
another six clubs.

Yes, Eight Men Out is the new reality for Major League Baseball.

It's time to let the wolf do his damage. Baseball has lived far too long in the
dream world that teams cannot disappear simply because of financial reasons.

Jobs are lost and companies move every day in America. Why should baseball be
immune to this dark reality?

On Wednesday, Bud Selig let it out of his All-Star bag that two teams are in
deep financial peril and that one might not to be able to meet Monday's payroll,
which could force it out of business. That team would be the Tigers, despite
denials from the club yesterday. That crisis, like a kidney stone, has passed
for the moment, MLB said yesterday, but trouble is around the bend. MLB insists
it will get through this season even if teams have to go into receivership, but
cries there is a financial crisis on the horizon.

It's time to call MLB's bluff. If teams are going to fold, let 'em fold or move
them somewhere else. You've got to know when to hold 'em and when to fold 'em to
play this game. There is no sympathy for this Devil Ray or any other struggling
team.

"I believe that the immediate crisis has been solved regarding the team that
could have missed payroll," Bob DuPuy, MLB's chief operating officer, said
yesterday. Having said that, DuPuy also told The Post, "I think there are teams
not out of the woods."

If Tampa closed shop tomorrow, no one would miss them. This is a bad team, a bad
logo, a bad idea from the start. Why should fans in Tampa Bay pay major-league
prices for a minor-league product? The Devil Rays know nothing but last place.
Good riddance.

As for the Tigers, there's wonderful history here, but this Tiger long ago lost
its bite. The Tigers are just another convenience store stop for the Yankees. If
the Yanks need a pitcher, they stop and buy Jeff Weaver like you and I stop for
a gallon of milk. The Tigers are a joke.

Detroit knows better than any city in America about the buying whims of the
public. Look at the jobs lost in the Motor City to overseas carmakers.

"It's always been a matter of pride for Bud," one MLB official said of Selig's
insistence of trying to keep every struggling franchise afloat. "He didn't want
to lose any teams. Now it's a reality he has to face."

Beyond Detroit and Tampa Bay there is other flotsam like the Contraction M&M
Kids, Montreal and Minnesota. Don't forget the Marlins, Blue Jays, Royals,
Padres and Reds who all need financial help. World Champion Arizona recently got
an infusion of cash from new investors that saved its Diamondback. Imagine
winning a World Series, then closing your doors. That would be a statement even
the players union would understand.

Baseball should steal a page from John Henry Williams. When a franchise dies,
send the corpse to the desert and put it in deep freeze until the business
climate changes for the better.

MLB is learning first-hand how costly it is to run a team. The Expos are
projected to lose at least $20 million this season under MLB's guiding hand. If
you allow a few dying teams to move or fade away that will make the Major
Leagues much more like the Major Leagues and not the Home Run Derby sideshow
baseball has become.

After all, if going, going, gone is to be your creed, some day you have to learn
to live by it.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -DETROIT TIGERS (1901-2002?); TAMPA BY DEVIL RAYS (1995-2002?) (s, lcf)

-ENOUGH ALREADY: Chris Gomez of Devil Rays (above) and Mark Redman of Tigers
strike familiar poses for their unsuccessful teams. They are first two of up to
eight clubs that need to bite the dust, Kevin Kernan says.  AP photos (m)

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               18 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

NOW METS CAN FOCUS ON WINS

BYLINE: George Willis

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 075

LENGTH: 694 words


"WE'RE in it to win it."

That's the message the Met hierarchy says it was sending yesterday when it ended
speculation surrounding Al Leiter's future by signing the left-hander to a
two-year contract extension with a mutual option for the 2005 season.

"We've heard enough about this team being dismantled," said Leiter, who could
have been a free agent at the end of this season, making him vulnerable to a
potential trade before the July 31 trade deadline. "I think this says we're not
only in this [playoff race] for this year, but for a couple of years."

His teammates were happy for Leiter, who is as well liked as anyone in the
clubhouse. He received congratulatory handshakes from David Weathers, Mo Vaughn
and others.

"Everybody likes each other in here," Vaughn said. "Nobody wants to see anybody
leave."

While a feel-good atmosphere engulfed the clubhouse, the motives that brought
closure to Leiter's contract status may not be as pure as they might seem. The
Mets have all but ended any talk of dumping salaries now that they have climbed
into wild-card contention.

Before losing 2-1 to the Expos last night at Shea, the Mets had won 11 of 16
games. They are now five games behind the Giants for the wild-card lead. Barring
a collapse over the next two weeks, Vaughn won't be going to the Red Sox and
Roberto Alomar won't be going to the Dodgers. Certainly, Leiter won't be going
anywhere.

That reality should have been sensed if not confirmed before Leiter put pen to
paper yesterday, though his signing changed any question marks to an exclamation
point.

"We firmly believe we're a playoff contender," GM Steve Phillips said. "Our hope
is the residual effect [of signing Leiter] shows everybody we believe that."

While signing Leiter can be viewed as maintaining the continuity of the present,
it also has much to do with protecting the Mets future. The notion Phillips
moved to secure an ace for his staff is debatable considering Leiter is just one
game over .500 (20-19) his last two seasons and will be 39 at the end of his
option year.

What likely prompted Phillips to resume stalled talks was the realization all of
his starting rotation expect for Pedro Astacio is headed for free agency. And
with a lack of compelling prospects likely to be available, signing Leiter was
akin to signing a top free agent.

He comes cheap, too, signing at what Phillips described as, "a hometown
discount." Leiter, who reportedly is making $9 million this season, will earn $8
million each of the next two seasons, and potentially $10 million in the 2005
option season. By reaching certain incentives, Leiter could earn an additional
$3 million over the term of the contract.

Clearly, staying with the Mets and securing a deal before a potential player
strike changes baseball economic climate were more important to Leiter than
earning his market value, which could have been an estimated $12 million
annually. In return for agreeing to the "hometown discount," the Mets gave
Leiter a no-trade clause for the term of his new deal.

"It's a matter of being happy where you are," Leiter insisted.

Therein lies the true residual of yesterday's signing. It won't mean as much in
the Mets' locker room as it will between Leiter's ears. He admitted his
uncertain status had him, worrying about moving his family and thinking of teams
he might be playing for next year.

"Those are exterior distractions that don't allow a player to be the best he
can," Leiter said.

The pitching-shaky Mets need him to sparkle down the stretch if they are to win
a wild-card berth. Leiter, who came to the Mets in 1998, is 9-8 this year with a
3.28 ERA. In 21 starts, he has pitched 129 innings, yielding 118 hits and 42
walks with 105 strikeouts. That's nothing special. The Mets need Leiter to be
special.

"Now he can relax and play," Vaughn said of Leiter. "He doesn't have to worry
about anything else. That's definitely good for us."

And good for Leiter, too.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUM FEELING: Roberto Alomar can't mask his disappointment after lining
out in fifth inning of Mets' 2-1 loss to Expos at Shea last night.  NY Post:
Nury Hernandez

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               19 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 3, 2002, Saturday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE: Stefan C. Friedman and Post Wire Services

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 372 words


According to an Indian scientist, the American-led war in Afghanistan has not
only been clobbering Taliban and al Qaeda forces, but the weather system in
parts of Southeast Asia as well.

India's monsoon season, which provides much of the country's annual rainfall,
has been all but absent this year.

Murari Lal, the chief scientific officer at the Center for Atmospheric Sciences
in New Delhi, claims that U.S. warplanes are to blame.

According to Lal, the planes have released a large amount of greenhouse gases
and aerosols as they've flown over Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Arabian Sea.

And those gases have significantly contributed to global-warming patterns across
Southeast Asia, negating the massive amounts of rainfall usually found during
monsoon season.

****

Animals from Los Angeles shelters will be getting a makeover to encourage
potential pet owners to adopt them.

City Controller Laura Chick suggests the animals be dressed in sweaters, collars
and even bow ties.

But Jerry Greenwalt, general manager of the city's shelter, believes that
animals won't like donning the fancy clothing.

He also suggests that playing dress-up with animals can be potentially
dangerous.

When asked about putting a bow tie on one of the shelter's pit bulls, Greenwalt
said simply: "Good luck."

****

A town in northern India is being terrorized by a pervert ghost.

According to victims, the saucy specter pinches women's behinds, causing them to
lose consciousness and wake up feeling dizzy.

Women in the town of Biswan, Uttar Pradesh, have started padding their
posteriors to keep the ghost at bay.

Dr. S.P. Verna says women are so scared, "the entire town has turned into
insomniacs."

A team of scientists has arrived on the scene, but has so far failed to come up
with any conclusive findings.

****

An undercooked piece of meat has helped catch a thief in Calaveras County,
California.

Cops followed a trail of steak juices from a barbecue in a San Andreas garden to
another home in the neighborhood and reportedly found the bloody sirloin in the
bathroom.

The unidentified woman was arrested for the steak theft and having an
outstanding warrant for stealing property in another case.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               20 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 12, 2002, Monday

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 031

LENGTH: 294 words


Kmart probe

The U.S. Attorney's office has impaneled a federal grand jury as part of its
probe into bankrupt Kmart Corp., and more than 20 subpoenas have been issued for
witnesses, bank records and other documents. Investigators want to unravel the
facts behind the bankruptcy and determine if former CEO Chuck Conaway will face
charges.

Ford suing?

Ford Motor Co. may still participate in an auto industry lawsuit over
California's new law to limit auto emissions of greenhouse gases - startling
state officials who thought the No. 2 automaker's chairman was willing to
cooperate with them.

H-P support

Hewlett-Packard Co., the world's third-largest provider of computer services,
won a contract worth "tens of millions of dollars" over several years to manage
a technical-support hotline for Microsoft Corp.

Tourism push

Tourism industry leaders plan to ask for a national organization to sell the
United States as a destination, trying to restore the weak international market
that has slowed the U.S. tourism industry's recovery.

Napster sale

The assets of file-sharing service Napster went up for auction Friday with an
asking price of $25 million and a deadline only eight business days away.

Analyst sued

Analyst Mark Bergman was secretly paid to issue a false research report in 2000
that helped drive up the stock price of Environmental Solutions Worldwide Inc.,
the Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a securities fraud suit.

Grubman met (m)

Jack Grubman, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney, participated in at least 10
board meetings of seven different telecom companies he covered between 1997 and
2001, according to a letter from his firm to U.S. lawmakers.

Sources: Bloomberg, AP, Reuters, N.Y. Post

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               21 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 19, 2002, Monday

NUMBERS TO CHEW ON - COSI IPO SHOWS WHY INVESTORS SHOULD READ FINE PRINT

BYLINE: Christopher Byron

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 035

LENGTH: 1239 words


THERE'S been plenty of wailing this summer about the crooked CEOs of American
business, and how we need to see a few of the more notorious ones hanging from
lampposts before investors will be ready to put their money back into stocks.

Now I wouldn't know about any of that, but I do know this: If the Dow Jones
industrial average were 1,000 points higher than it is, and if it would simply
head in the right direction - namely, up - for more than a few days at a time,
we wouldn't be hearing a peep from anyone about the corner-office crooks of big
business who've allegedly been robbing us all blind.

Instead, we'd be hearing about the next hot new "concept" business that we all
need to have stuffed into our 401(k)s. And I am sure about something else:
Plenty of people would be lining up to buy.

This week we'll look at one that will be right there waiting for them, too: An
IPO for a fast-food business that goes by the name Cosi Inc.

This chain of yuppified coffee shops sells every trendy thing you could imagine
eating, from square-shaped bagels and coffee to weird kinds of pizzas and frozen
"smoothie" fruit drinks. Think of a Cosi restaurant as a kind of fast-food
Trader Vic's that's open all day and into the night, and you've got the general
drift.

Such fancied-up fast-food eateries have lately attracted some interest on Wall
Street - in no small measure thanks to the soaring stock price of one of the
sector's hottest plays at the moment. The Panera Bread Co. of Missouri has seen
its stock surge from $3 to more than $30 in the last two years. And that is why
Cosi itself is now poised on the IPO runway.

Unfortunately, the company has been a money-loser from the start, and its
growth-oriented business plan seems to offer nothing but ever-greater losses in
the future. But problems like this were hardly noticed by investors in the bull
market of the 1990s, and things will certainly be no different in the future.

We'll take a closer look at Cosi Inc. in a minute, because this regional
72-store chain of sandwich shops - which has been trying to launch an IPO since
last spring - perfectly illustrates the sort of trash that investors chased to
the moon in the last bull market, and will certainly chase again once bull
market fever begins to spread again through Wall Street.

The fact is, everything an investor could possibly want to know about such a
stock is right there in black and white in the company's IPO financials. And
thanks to the EDGAR program put in place at the Securities & Exchange Commission
back in the mid-1990s, those financials are available free to anyone with a home
computer and a connection to the Internet.

Yet most people never bothered to read the filings when the IPO market was
smoking, and that's hardly likely to change in the next bull market. Investors
were interested only in how much of an opening-day pop they could get by placing
a "buy at the market" order with their broker on whatever piece of dot-com
garbage was being taken public that week.

In that way, the retirement portfolios of millions of Americans wound up being
stuffed with unbelievably over-priced stocks that have since fallen, in many
cases, by 95 percent or more and are still overpriced.

Consider the 1996 IPO for a company named Applied Graphics Technologies, which
real estate developer Mort Zuckerman acquired in connection with his takeover of
U.S. News & World Report. The IPO was pitched to investors as a digital play in
the media space, but Zuckerman's real purpose in the offering seems to have been
simply been to lighten the load from his money-losing acquisition of the New
York Daily News.

The Applied Graphics stock went public in a Cowen & Co. offering at $12 per
share with terrible fundamentals and a customer base that included,
instructively enough, both the Daily News and U.S. News & World Report.
Nonetheless, though the company racked up only three profitable years throughout
the whole of the 1990s, it soared to a split-adjusted high of $147 per share
before tumbling in the tech wreck to its present price of 40 cents.

Yet even at that, the Amex-traded stock still puts a value of roughly $4 million
on the business - this in spite of the fact that the company has an insolvent
balance sheet and collapsing revenues, and faces the repayment of nearly $200
million of debt that will almost certainly trigger a bankruptcy filing.

Of such ingredients has the Cosi Inc. offering been bolted together as well.
There are various big-time money men attached to the deal, including LBO macher
Henry Kravis, real estate wheel Sam Zell, the Ziff Brothers Investment Fund and
a New York merger promoter named Eric Gleacher. All became involved either
before or as a result of a 1999 deal in which privately held Cosi Sandwich Bar
Inc. merged with a similar type of outfit called Xando Inc., placing a $40
million value on the combined businesses.

It is that business that is now being taken public in the IPO. And just like the
tech trash from the 1990s, the company seems to be pretty much a financial black
hole. Over the last five years, revenues have grown nearly nine-fold, to $70
million annually. But operating costs have grown more than 10 percent faster.

Throw in the rest of the income statement, and the company's bottom line has
been in the red, and deteriorating, from Day One, with cumulative losses over
the last five years now approaching $130 million.

Why anyone would want to invest in a company like that I have no idea - and in
the current market climate, no one apparently does, which is why the IPO has
kicked around since April and not yet been priced and taken to market.

But there the deal sits, with its latest amendment having been filed only last
week, waiting for the market to firm up enough that demand revives for exactly
the sort of stock people now regret having bought the last time around.

Whether anyone will actually buy a share of Cosi, Inc. we'll just have to wait
and see. But if history is any guide, folks probably will, and this doubtful
business will have its moment in the sun - during which the insiders will cash
out, the stock will fall, and plenty of investors will be hurt.

Yet for that they will have no one to blame but themselves, for the road map to
ruin has been set forth before them in black and white in the company's IPO -
just as it was in every dot-com offering, every broadband telecom offering and
every biotech offering that has now gone down in flames.

In sum, it's fine to blame crooked CEOs and their accountants when a company's
financial reports are stuffed with lies. But folks lose a lot of their griping
rights when they don't even bother to read the financials in the first place.
The story of Cosi Inc., whose financials seem perfectly straightforward, honest
and horrible, simply drives home the point. A fool and his money . . . ?

---------

Is Cosi the next Krispy Kreme?

Cosi Sandwich Bar is about to launch its IPO - and while its sandwiches are
popular, its financials are unappetizing:

* Revenues have grown nine-fold over the last five years to $70 million
annually, but operating costs have grown more than 10 percent faster.

* Cumulative losses are now approaching $130 million.

*Cosi's offering's resembles the 1996 IPO of Applied Graphics - a company now
burdoned with $200 million in debt.


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Stenzler - CEO, Cosi/Zando

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               22 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 27, 2002, Tuesday

EEK! ASBESTOS!

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 265 words


As if New York's Bravest haven't enough on their minds, the union that
represents them is working overtime to make matters worse.

The Uniformed Firefighters Association is complaining that upwards of 200
firetrucks may be contaminated with lethal residue from the collapse of the
World Trade Center almost one year ago.

A study commissioned by the union and an activist "watchdog" group, the New York
Environmental Law and Justice Project, found that five rigs contain asbestos
levels above federal safety standards.

They then extrapolated these findings over the 200 sets of apparatus present for
varying lengths of time at Ground Zero - and proclaimed a potential emergency.

Ho, hum - here we go again.

Asbestos - a certain type of asbestos, that is - has been demonstrated to be a
factor in lung cancer when ingested over a lengthy period of time.

But it's not plutonium.

You find asbestos fibers on a firetruck? Squirt the rig with a firehose and
guess what? The asbestos goes away.

It's in apparatus seat cushions?

Vacuum them.

It's in the air conditioners?

Change some filters.

Problem solved.

We understand what the Environmental Project is up to - mischief.

But for the UFA to trade on 9/11 heroism in this way is a mystery.

Says Phil McArdle, the union's health and safety officer: "We did a great job in
respects to locating the dead, why is not such a great job being done in respect
to the living?"

Maybe it's about creating a climate for a firefighters' pay raise. Maybe it's
union faction-fighting. Or both.

Either way, it's unseemly.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               23 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 27, 2002, Friday

TO BETTER FIGHT TERROR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 444 words


Pressing home the new realities of post-9/11 America, the Bloomberg
administration has asked a federal court judge to lift some of the decades-old
restrictions on the NYPD's right to monitor political activity.

Before 9/11, those harsh restrictions were merely an inconvenience to the NYPD's
ability to do its job. But now they impose unrealistic - and crippling - limits
on the Police Department's ability to combat terrorism.

The restrictions date to a 1986 consent agreement arising out of a 1969 lawsuit
filed by several '60s radical activists - including the late Abbie Hoffman and
members of the Black Panther Party.

They were the creation of a different age and a different political climate -
one of widespread public distrust with law enforcement, based on the disclosures
of the federal domestic spy program known as COINTELPRO and the lengths to which
local police agencies cooperated with it.

The restrictions, known as the Handschu Agreement (after a plaintiff), forbids
city cops from photographing, videotaping or even attending any political
gathering without specific advance information that a crime is being planned.

They also stop the NYPD from keeping files on political groups or activists -
and, more critically, from sharing information on such people with other
law-enforcement agencies.

Clearly, those conditions are a crippling restraint on law enforcement at a time
when terrorists have become increasingly more sophisticated.

No other police department in the nation faces such restrictions; indeed, even
before 9/11 the U.S. Court of Appeals modified a similar consent decree with the
Chicago police, saying it rendered them "helpless to do anything to protect the
public" against terrorism.

Corporation Counsel Michael Cardozo has submitted impressive documentation in
support of a change in the Handshu Agreement. It notes correctly that the events
of 9/11 "have created circumstances unlike those existing" when the guidelines
were first agreed on.

What the Bloomberg administration is asking for is relatively simple - but
critically urgent.

Given the particularly active presence of New York-based terrorists - and the
city's obvious role as a terrorist target - City Hall says "the NYPD must
develop intelligence through the collection and analysis of information on a
local level and the sharing of that information with other law-enforcement
agencies."

Not surprisingly, some of the usual suspects are already decrying the potential
"threat" to civil liberties.

But City Hall's urgent request is eminently common sense. More than that - it is
imperative if a repeat of 9/11 is to be prevented.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               24 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           October 5, 2002, Saturday

WEITZ OBIT STUNS FASHIONISTAS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 010

LENGTH: 1076 words


MANY of New York's more fashionable jaws unlocked and dropped yesterday morning
while reading the New York Times obituary of John Weitz, the elegant and urbane
designer and writer who died at the age of 79.

Most of the quotes in the obituary came from John Fairchild, former publisher of
Women's Wear Daily and once the most feared man on Seventh Avenue.

Fashionistas were buzzing because for much of Weitz's career, Fairchild - who
still writes waspishly about high society in W under the nom de plume Countess
Louise Esterhazy - banned any mention of Weitz from WWD, the rag trade bible.

Weitz's shows were not covered, nor his products mentioned. Weitz survived the
Fairchild cold shoulder and ran a very successful business, but to friends, he
privately complained that it would have been that much bigger had he not been
expunged from WWD.

Weitz was in good company: Geoffrey Beene, James Galanos, and the late Pauline
Trigere were also "disappeared" by the mercurial Fairchild. And they never knew
why.

To make matters worse, while most of Fairchild's comments in the Weitz obituary
were laudatory, Fairchild damned Weitz with faint praise: "He did very well at
putting his name on things."

Fairchild also told The Times, "He was the perfect gentleman, and could talk for
hours and hours and hours, a lot about himself, which is part of his charm."

And what if he did? Weitz had plenty of stories and much to be proud of.

The late designer was a spy for the OSS during World War II; a race car driver;
an author of several books, including a biography of Von Ribbentrop, Hitler's
foreign minister; the husband of Oscar-nominated actress Susan Kohner; and the
father of four children, including Paul and Chris Weitz, co-directors of such
movies as "American Pie" and "About a Boy."

Recently, Weitz, whose Jewish parents moved from Berlin to England when Hitler
came to power, was rewriting a novel based on the life of Max Schmeling, the
German heavyweight whose defeat by Joe Louis was a major blow to Hitler's
propaganda about Aryan supremacy.

One industry insider, after reading the obituary, described Fairchild's
participation in it as "weird, and the ultimate act of cynicism."

Bogus Barry

SOME people will do anything to get their hands on Cartier's new Divan watch.
The other day, someone claiming to be media mogul Barry Diller called Cartier's
corporate offices and asked to be put at the top of the wait-list to get a watch
before it hits stores later this month. "We were skeptical of his authenticity,"
said a spokeswoman for Cartier. "The caller was throwing around his celebrity
status and dropping names a little too much." When the Cartier sleuths checked
and learned the phone number and address "Diller" had given were wrong, they
canceled the order.

Sightings

A REVELER ended the Beacon restaurant after-party for Chevy Chase's Friars Club
Roast by putting his foot through a plate glass door, prompting Christopher
Meloni, Richard Belzer, Gilbert Gottfried and Martha Plimpton to leave in a
hurry soon after . . . JENNIFER Lopez wowing passersby on West 14th Street as
she filmed a video at Nell's . . . JOE Hahn of Linkin Park cooling down with a
Coke on the patio at Hudson Cafeteria.

Do as I say

PILE-driving politico Gov. Jesse Ventura, who has been very vocal about the
nation's "pathetic" voter turnout, didn't vote himself in the Sept. 10 primary.
One week later, he accepted an award at the state capital from Kids Voting
Minnesota, a pro-voting group. When it came out that Ventura failed to vote, he
told Minnesota Public Radio, "I was so busy that day." It turns out he was
getting busy with a sand wedge. Ventura played 18 holes on Sept. 10, reports the
Pioneer Press.

Retro rock

THE smells of pot, patchouli and veggie burritos overwhelmed Roseland Ballroom
on Wednesday night at the third-annual Jammy Awards, which rewards the guitar
wankery of Grateful Dead-inspired "jam bands." The hippie-hoe-down was hosted by
Blues Travelers' John Popper and featured performances by Bob Weir and Ratdog,
Phish's Mike Gordon, the Allman Brothers' Warren Hayes and his band Gov't Mule
(featuring a surprise appearance by Gregg Allman), and many others. The sold-out
event was produced by Relix magazine, Jambands.com and former Wetlands owner
Peter Shapiro.

Bill: Babs' favorite charity

BARBRA Streisand gave $45,000 to Bill Clinton's William Jefferson Clinton
Foundation in 2000, more than twice the amount she doled out to any other
charity. According to financial filings of the Barbra Streisand Foundation
posted on the drudgereport.com Web site, Streisand distributed $580,810 that
year, after donating $3,184,028 to her foundation, which shielded the money from
taxes. But the ex-president received more than anyone else from Streisand, who
slept over in the Clinton White House several times in the Lincoln Bedroom. The
Quincy Jones Listen Up Foundation got just $1,000. The Nelson Mandela Foundation
got $10,000. Norman Lear's People for the American Way netted $20,000.
Streisand, an avid stock market player, made $1.44 million in trading profits on
the foundation's $3.2 million portfolio. Unlike her contributions, the
investments seem to be blind to politics. Her foundation briefly held 800 shares
of Halliburton, the oil service giant where Dick Cheney was CEO before he became
vice president. The trades lost the foundation $1,838. Streisand now calls
Cheney "frightening."

Endquote

"I DON'T really remember much, other than there was very little air, and it was
really dark in there. It was sort of like reverting back to the womb" - Joey
Lawrence in Entertainment Weekly on getting his face pressed into "Gimme a
Break" co-star Nell Carter's ample bosom . . . "I WAS talking to Donna Karan at
an event last night, and she said, 'You know, Ralph, I still don't feel rich.' "
- Ralph Lauren in O, the Oprah Winfrey magazine.

Hormone-free

AT 65, Dustin Hoffman (above) is no longer the man he once was, and he's happy
about it. "I no longer feel like I'm chained to a maniac," the star tells the
Toronto Sun, referring to his waning testosterone levels. "From the time of
puberty, it so controls you. There is no defense against it. Whether it's male
menopause or whatever it's called, there is a climate change inside you. It has
happened to me. Why do I have a need to cook now? Why do I have a desire to
garden?"


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: DUSTIN HOFFMAN
JESSE VENTURA

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               25 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            November 8, 2002, Friday

NO PRETENDING ; TO CHRISSIE HYNDE, EARTH'S IN CRITICAL CONDITION

BYLINE: Dan Aquilante

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 056

LENGTH: 924 words


Chrissie Hynde - with the Pretenders - is tough, smart, political and not afraid
to speak her mind about anything.

Chrissie Hynde, with the Pretenders, is not shy about expressing radical views
in public.

"If you don't have a flag sticking out of your

a - - , you must be a Communist."Chrissie Hynde

"Show some kindness to one another, maybe some compassion, back off and relax a
little."Chrissie Hynde

"I believe that within seven or eight years we'll lose two-thirds of the Earth's
population."Chrissie Hynde

AT 51, archetypal rock chick Chrissie Hynde has no intention of mellowing.Hynde,
who is currently on tour supporting the Rolling Stones, still has her fist
raised - just as she did on the cover of the band's last album, "Viva el Amore."

Speaking to The Post during a visit to New York, this expatriate leader of the
Pretenders is tough, smart, political and not afraid to speak her mind.

She believes most of the Earth's population may be wiped out within the decade
because of the contaminated environment and that we are 40 years too late to
save the planet.

You may not agree, but Hynde doesn't care. She says and does what she thinks is
right - including advocating in the late '80s that McDonald's be bombed (one in
London was) and joining a People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA)
protest at a New York Gap store a few years ago.

Yet Hynde's success as an artist and an activist is that she rarely mixes the
roles.

Despite her prediction of impending war, disease, pestilence and doom, "Loose
Screw," the Pretenders' latest studio record, which hits stores Tuesday, is
"snappy and very uptempo," she promises. "These songs were written in high
spirits."

Post: The Pretenders have often been the opening act for big names like Neil
Young, the B-52's, UB40. Now it's the Rolling Stones. You must like it.

Hynde: We're f - - - ing sick of it . . . Just kidding. There's a freedom to it.
It sounds like a bad attitude, but you don't feel the pressure of the gig. You
know the audience didn't really come to hear you. They're there to hear the
Stones, and you're just a bonus.

Post: You pulled John McEnroe out of the wings to play guitar during your set at
the Garden. What gives?

Hynde: John's an honorary Pretender. He was just starting when we were, and we
got to know him well, but I've given him more guitar lessons than he's given me
tennis lessons.

Post: One of the top songs on the album is "Fools Must Die." Who are these
fools?

Hynde: I'm talking about myself. I like going to cemeteries, and that verse is
from an old epitaph: "Don't laugh as you walk by, for as you are now so once was
I, as I am now you will be, prepare for death and follow me." When you're
walking in a graveyard and read that, it really stops you in your tracks. So in
my song, I guess I'm talking about the fool in me dying.

Post: What about the song "Complex Person." Who's that?

Hynde: That's about the hypocrite in me.

Post: People don't think of you as a hypocrite. You've always spoken your mind
about issues like animal rights and the environment.

Hynde: No, I'm not out there on the front lines. To really be an
environmentalist, you have to be out there. You have to walk it like you talk
it. I talk. What do I do about it? That's why I say I'm a hypocrite.

Post: Do you support environmental groups?

Hynde: Yes. No matter what any group is doing, it's not enough. No matter how
offensive or militant they appear, they couldn't be more offensive than those
who are actively destroying our environment.

Post: Do you feel the world is getting better for their efforts?

Hynde: It's mostly talk, but there are a few who understand how critical the
situation is.

Post: What is the situation?

Hynde: It's never been worse. If we were going to arrest the destruction of the
environment, it would have to have started 40 years ago. Now it's irretrievable
and way too late.

Post: So we give up?

Hynde: No, you still have to do what you can. The best we can do at this point
is to get involved in some sort of healing process. We have to stop the killing
and contamination.

Post: If not?

Hynde: I believe that within seven or eight years we'll lose two-thirds of the
Earth's population.

Post: Wow. How so?

Hynde: I don't know exactly. I'd expect lack of water, contamination of the
environment, no places to live, environmental calamities, pestilence, rampant
disease - and that's not even getting started on war, atomic attacks and
biological warfare. Those are the cherries on the cake.

Post: That's pretty grim. What should one do?

Hynde: Do what you know you should do. Show some kindness to one another. Back
off and relax a little.

Post: Do you live that way?

Hynde: Sure. I'm like anyone else. I'm making a living and doing my thing. It's
easy for me to relax.

Post: As an American who has lived outside of the States for the last 30 years,
what changes do you see here?

Hynde: My perception is that there is no voice of dissent in the American media.
When I was going to Kent State University, there was a healthy, strong voice of
dissent. America prides itself on its freedom of speech, but these days you dare
not step out of line. If you don't have a flag sticking out of your a - - , you
must be a Communist. The political climate is akin to other countries that got
involved in patriotic furor that was based in fear and misunderstanding. It's
dangerous.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chrissie Hynde is tough, smart, political and not afraid to speak her
mind.

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               26 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           November 10, 2002, Sunday

STREET'S REVENGE - BANKS NOW SCOFF AT SWALLOWING RADICAL REFORM

BYLINE: BETH PISKORA and JESSICA SOMMAR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 719 words


After months of being beaten down by securities regulators and congressional
committees, Wall Street is starting to bite back.

Emboldened by the Republican victory in Tuesday's elections and chairman Harvey
Pitt's resignation from the Securities and Exchange Commission, Wall Street
firms are fighting to slow down and even roll back some of the more onerous
conditions of the proposed settlement over conflicted analyst research.

Those two developments are likely to produce a more business-friendly climate
for the firms to negotiate, and they're not about to let the opportunity pass.

According to a source involved in the talks between Wall Street firms and
government regulators, the securities industry has placed a list of new terms on
the negotiating table, including:

* The elimination of an oversight panel to monitor stock-research practices.

* A reduction in the nearly $1 billions in fines sought by regulators.

* More time to pay a financial settlement.

* Greater industry control over the way research is reformed.

If such demands seem ambitious now, they would have been positively unthinkable
just days ago.

But the combination of a lame-duck SEC and major victories by Republicans, who
captured control of the Senate and now control the legislative agenda in both
houses of Congress, have given Wall Street a lot more breathing room.

"Why should we settle?" asked one high-ranking Wall Street executive. "Why not
wait to see how things change?"

The SEC and New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer already have toned down at
least one of their proposals. In the latest round of talks held last Thursday,
they agreed to reconsider the idea of creating an independent research panel to
provide unbiased stock research to small investors.

Wall Street would have both funded, and purchased research from the consortium.

That proposal has since been replaced by one which calls for each firm to create
and fund its own independent research unit, sources close to the negotiations
say.

That's precisely what Citicorp's Sandy Weill did when he hired Sallie Krawcheck,
the former CEO of the respected independent research house Sanford Bernstein, to
start such a unit within Citicorp's Smith Barney brokerage business.

"There's not going to be a consortium," said one person involved in the
settlement talks. "The big brokerages will just fund their own research,
following the Citi model."

The source added that other parts of Spitzer's proposal are going to get more
scrutiny in this new post-election environment.

A spokeswoman for Spitzer said there would be no delay in the settlement,
expected by the end of the year.

"We had a productive meeting Thursday and the regulators have expressed their
firm commitment," she said. "The industry appears to be working with us and we
appear to be making progress."

Another source who's sat at the negotiation table said the only "sticking point"
is the issue of an oversight panel - much like one proposed for the accounting
profession - for Wall Street firms.

"Spitzer wants it and Wall Street doesn't, and neither side is budging," the
source said.

But behind the scenes, regulators say they're ready for a fight.

"If [the brokerages] don't come to the table [regulators] still have plenty of
good cases to bring against them and they will do so," a regulatory source close
to the probes grumbled to The Post.

Indeed, investor advocates say the renewed efforts to fight the settlement could
come back to haunt Wall Street, as it may keep investor confidence from being
restored.

"I think they are slitting their own throats," said Paul Holmes, founder of
Holmes Group, which specializes in reputation management.

"I think they are delaying the recovery, perhaps by quarters, if not by years.
They would be very stupid to do it, but there's certainly more than enough
stupidity going around on Wall Street."

Reversal of fortune

Wall Street suddenly has a lot more leverage in its talks with the government.
Here are the terms of the sweeter settlement deal they may demand:

* No Wall Street oversight panel

* Cheaper financial settlement

* More time to pay settlements

* Fewer regulations over research


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: ELIOT SPITZER.  NY Post: Steven Hirsch
SANFORD WEILL.  AP

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               27 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          September 24, 2002, Tuesday

REEBOK DISCOVERS HOT NEW LOOK WITH SINGER SHAKIRA

BYLINE: LISA MARSH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 026

LENGTH: 273 words


Shakira will be shakin' her stuff for Reebok.

The international pop tart will join athletes Allen Iverson and Tiki Barber to
endorse the athletic company's "Classic" collection of shoes and active apparel.

"Shakira . . . has a distinct style and flair and exudes an extraordinary level
of confidence and determination to succeed," said Micky Pant, chief marketing
officer for Reebok.

"She is a vibrant and integral part of today's youth culture and her success is
an inspiration for millions of young men and women around the world," he added.

"Reebok understands what young people around the world are all about," Shakira
said in a statement. "By joining their team, I am able to fuse my style and
music with Reebok's products and marketing to further connect with this global
audience."

Shakira is truly global. The 25-year-old songstress is Colombian by birth, but
is of Colombian and Lebanese descent. She speaks three languages - Spanish,
Arabic and English - allowing her to communicate with much of the world.

She incorporates her diverse heritage into her music and performances,
especially with her spicy belly dancing.

Reebok will use Shakira in its "Sounds & Rhythm of Sport" campaign; she'll start
appearing in the TV and print spots in spring 2003.

The Reebok Classic apparel associated with the songbird's campaign will feature
shoes ranging in price from $60 to $80, and such sportswear items as $20 cropped
bra-tops (perfect for belly dancing) and $100 velour warm-ups.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORLD FEET: Crossover pop star Shakira has signed on to market Reebok's
"Classic" line of shoes and sportswear.  Reuters

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               28 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 15, 2002, Sunday

SILVER BELLES: HOW TO GLOW THIS WINTER

BYLINE: FARRAH WEINSTEIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 059

LENGTH: 474 words


The hottest color in makeup this season is more of a shimmer than a solid.Gucci
and Armani first introduced silver - in makeup, glitter and body shimmer - on
their runway models during the Spring 2003 fashion shows this fall.

Further proof that it's officially a trend - the ubiquitous J.Lo wears silver
eye shadow in her new video "Jenny From the Block."

"Silver is coming to the forefront right now," says Cara Kagan, beauty director
at Elle magazine. "We're going to start to see paparazzi shots of celebrities in
it. It's really sexy, and it's dramatic. It's fun, it's girlie, it's glamorous -
and it's a holiday, so why not?"

You can use silver in a variety of ways - shimmer cremes, moisturizers and
lotions to give exposed skin a futuristic glow. Or you can warm up the look with
smoky silver eyeliners and eye shadows, or add a shimmer of silver lip gloss
over lipstick.

But the best way to wear silver, says Kagan, is one spot at a time.

"You want to reflect the light of your skin, not have everyone be able to see
themselves in your face like you're a mirror," she says. "That's kind of like
the Tin Man waiting to happen."

Dot some silver shimmer on the cheekbones, neck and shoulder, but then keep the
rest of your face subtle. And remember, simple is sophisticated.

"You don't want to dump shimmer all over your body with your shoulders,
dcolletage and cheekbones. If you have a silver eye, don't do silver on the
body. It's also really important to bring warmth to the face with some blush,
like that flush you get when you exercise or when you're blushing."

For lips, make sure to keep it very sheer, advises Kagan.

"You can wear a lip gloss with a hint of silver to it, or you can layer it over
pink or red lipstick. But keep away from wearing it over warm orange or brown
lipsticks. They're competing with each other."

Also, trying to line your mouth with a silver eye pencil is an absolute don't.

"That's where you run into problems," says Kagan. "That's a little too Goth. You
don't want a frosty, opalescent white silver mouth. Keep it soft."

Gordon Espinet, global makeup artist for MAC cosmetics, has a trick to use while
working with silver.

"Think of it as a very strong accessory, like a piece of jewelry - say, a
solitaire diamond ring. If you wear that, you're not going to want to wear
anything else."

How to get that look:

Stila eye shadow in Twilight for $16 (available at Sephora); MAC eye shadow in
Electra for $12.50 (available at MAC stores); Sephora crayon pencil in gray for
$4 (available at Sephora); beComing shimmer color in starlight for $6.50
(available at Sephora); MAC gloss in aluminum for $12.50 (available at MAC Pro
stores).


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Model Carmen Kass sported silver eyeshadow at the Carolina Herrera
Spring 2003 show this fall.  WireImage.com

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               29 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 18, 2002, Wednesday

WIDGETS OF AHS ; TOP CHEFS PICK THEIR BEST TOOLS

BYLINE: CYNTHIA KILIAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 045

LENGTH: 726 words


ANY cook who remembers life B.C. - before Cuisinart - knows the value of a great
cooking gadget. And no one knows better than the pros.

We asked some of the city's top chefs about their favorite tools, which ranged
from stocking stuffers to dream machines.

Chefs naturally warm to razor-sharp blades. Les Halles' Anthony Bourdain
confesses, "I dearly love my Global sashimi knife - an object of unparalleled
beauty."

"I never actually have any call to use it," admits TV's eating adventurer, "but
I keep it around so I can gaze at it admiringly."

Anita Lo, the force behind the West Village's Annisa, also has a Japanese knife
she uses all the time called a honesuki.

It's small, yet thick enough to chop things, with "a wide blade so you can still
rock it like a regular knife," she says.

"I have such a small kitchen and it's really useful because it's small and
doesn't get in the way."

She also has a neat gadget for opening raw eggs in perfect circles, leaving her
with a cap and a cup to fill with goodies such as custard or French scrambled
eggs and sea urchin.

Mario Batali's advice: "Besides a good chef's knife, metal tongs are the
ultimate kitchen tool. They're practically an extension of your hand, and can be
used to handle vegetables, meat and poultry, even to toss pasta."

The mastermind of Babbo and the soon-to-open Otto enoteca says they're almost
always in his hand when he's in the kitchen.

Daniel Boulud picks silicone baking sheets, which he uses for cookies and hors
d'oeuvres. Not only are they washable and reusable, but you don't even need to
be a chef to buy them anymore.

Eric Ripert's life at Le Bernardin wouldn't be the same without his Vita-Mix
blender. "It's like flying the Concorde," says the toque at Zagat's No. 1-rated
seafood palace. "It has two engines and makes the most amazing purees in
seconds."

Another vote for the Vita-Mix comes from Luis Bollo, the culinary wizard at
Suba. He uses the blender to make his sauces "creamier, smoother and purer."

Bollo also enlists "thermo" cups to keep sauces hot because "they look cool and
work well." The cups are similar to those used by commuters, but smaller, of
higher quality and made in Japan.

Sara Moulton, executive chef of Gourmet and host of the Food Network's "Sara's
Secrets," suggests foodie Santas give a spaetzle maker, "one of those washboards
with the cup on the top."

Says Moulton, "You make the batter and pour it through and it's so cool, it's
just quick quick pasta."

And though Wylie Dufresne hasn't been able to fire up his new Bonnet oven yet,
it's enough to set any red-blooded chef's heart racing.

"I'm certainly not the first one by any means to get excited about them," he
says about the custom-made setup recently installed at WD-50, the
much-anticipated restaurant he's opening early next year across the street from
his former kitchen, 71 Clinton Fresh Food.

Dufresne first saw stoves like it while working in France and it was clear to
him that "it was an indispensable tool."

He visited the factory outside Lyon with his father and partner Dewey to design
the gas-and-electric stovetop's configuration to their specifications, one of
which is the cook's height. The four-oven 11-by-7-foot arrangement is also an
island, so "you can walk all the way around it."

"It's the heart of the whole operation... and it's something that's going to be
around as long as I am," says Dufresne. "It's built to last, so to me it's a
really worthwhile investment."

And once they turn on the gas, he'll be cooking with it.

WHERE THE TOYS ARE

* Egg-top cutter ($29.50) and Vita Prep Power Blender ($523):

J.B. Prince Co., 36 E. 31st St. (between Park and Madison avenues), 11th floor,
(212) 683-3553, www.jbprince.com.

* 12-inch Global sashimi knife ($125), spaetzle maker ($24.99) and French
silicone baking mat ($19.99):

pcd professional cutlery direct, (800) 296-8039, www.cutlery.com.

* Tongs (starting at $19.99):

Chef's, (800) 338-3232, www.chefscatalog.com.

* Bonnet oven, custom-made starting at $50,000:

Call Sarah Wally at Bonnet, (201) 444-2682, or sarahwally@aol.com.


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Le Bernardin chef Eric Ripert and his Vita-Mix blender.N.Y. Post: David
Rentas
Chef Wylie Dufresne sits atop a custom-made Bonnet oven in his soon-to-open
WD-50 restaurant.N.Y. Post: Jennifer Weisbord

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               30 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 28, 2002, Tuesday

NEW YORK RECRUITS ARE THE APPLE CORPS

BYLINE: NEIL GRAVES Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 284 words


FORT JACKSON, S.C. -New Yorkers by the hundreds have waved goodbye to civilian
life and are preparing for payback in America's war against terrorism.

Many of those who chose the Army - average Joes who stood by helplessly while
their city took a cheap shot - are among the 9,000 recruits here at Fort Jackson
for nine weeks of slogging through mud, eating chow in the woods and climbing
the dominating Victory Tower.

Drill Sgt. Roderick Pickett, 31, of Brooklyn, feels these post-9/11 volunteers
here for basic training are the most motivated he's seen in his eight years.

"The soldiers I'm getting now, I've never seen them so committed to patriotism,"
says Pickett.

If the United States is to play the world's policeman, these recruits have no
problem being global cops.

Gustavo Ritschl, 28, doesn't have to imagine being a cop - he was one. Serving
31/2 years in The Bronx, Ritschl walked the hallowed grounds of the fallen
towers while they were still warm. It was his own private Hiroshima.

"It's hard to explain; it gave you a feeling of . . . ," he pauses, trying to
conjure of a word that could adequately describe the horror before giving up:
"Unbelievable. You're walking on a building that was there for years and it's
gone in minutes."

Juan Romero, 22, of The Bronx, was only 11 when Operation Desert Storm ended. He
doesn't much recall the war, but when told President Bush's dad had left
business unfinished with Saddam Hussein - business that may resume as early as
next year, according to reports - Romero was pleased in a perverse sort of way.

"I'm happy they didn't finish," he says, a smile creeping across his war-painted
face. "They saved a piece for me."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               31 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 28, 2002, Friday

TWO RAINMAKERS EXIT GRUBB & ELLIS

BYLINE: LOIS WEISS and STEVE CUOZZO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 034

LENGTH: 406 words


On the heels of breaking off acquisition talks with a rival firm, real estate
brokerage Grubb & Ellis lost two top dealmakers and also named a new chairman -
all in the space of a week.

Two days ago, G&E lost Glenn Markman, its top New York City producer who ranked
No. 3 nationwide last year, to industry giant Cushman &Wakefield. Markman goes
to C&W as an executive director with a mandate to build his own team.

"After 9/11 everyone's priorities changed," Markman said. "I think a lot of
people are doing soul-searching. We are here for a short amount of time and we
have to maximize our moments."

Among other high-profile successes, Markman spearheaded the leasing of the NBA
theme store in Rockefeller Center.

Bruce Mosler, head of C&W's U.S. operations, said, "This is a different level of
platform where Glenn feels his clients can best be served in the most effective
way."

Markman's exit from G&E followed by 48 hours the departure of executive managing
director Robert Emden, who left for the same position at USI, a low-profile but
high-ambition real estate services company with bold expansion plans.

Emden, a former protege of the late and beloved Edward S. Gordon, said, "I left
Grubb & Ellis for no reason other than a better opportunity. It was time to
leave."

USI's CEO, Ed McLoughlin, admits USI has been "under the radar" in New York. The
firm repped the American Crafts Museum in its planned purchase of 2 Columbus
Circle from the city. Its corporate clients include Delta Airlines, United
Technologies, and Royal Bank of Canada.

Grubb & Ellis, meanwhile, is clearly in transition.

Just weeks ago, CEO Barry Barovick said that secret merger talks with CB Richard
Ellis - first reported in The Post - had broken down over "artistic
differences."

This week G&E named a new chairman, Michael Kojaian, a longtime shareholder in
the publicly-traded company who recently invested an additional $15.2 million.

Since the merger talks broke off, G&E has suffered numerous defections, but also
added 100 new staffers, 7 of them in New York.

Among its prime picks are two former real estate investment trust executives -
Bruce Crawford, who left Trizec Properties to join G&E as executive VP of
operations, and Elizabeth Kulik, new managing director of the firm's Global
Accounts Group.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -ROBERT EMDEN Quit G&E. (s, lcf)
-BRUCE MOSLER C&W's U.S. boss.

-NBA STORE - Rock Center (m)

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               32 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             August 2, 2002, Friday

PARTYING ON A SINKING SHIP

BYLINE: JESSICA SOMMAR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 375 words


EXCLUSIVE

Talk about fiddling while Rome burns.

Bankrupt service provider WorldCom is planning an all-expenses-paid booze cruise
for its New York employees - and was struggling to keep the party under wraps
yesterday as its disgraced financial officers were arrested, The Post has
learned.

About 75 WorldCom sales staffers from the Park Avenue office are expected to
board the ritzy Cloud Nine cruiser in Manhattan on Monday for unlimited food and
booze on the company's dime.

The employees are expected to dine on Norwegian salmon, filet mignon, prime rib,
roast filet of ostrich and hand-dipped chocolate strawberries at the event,
which is expected to set the scandal-plagued telecom back about $6,000.

"It's disgusting," a shocked WorldCom employee sniffed. "It's not right. We just
had layoffs, for Christ's sake."

The worker said his managers were concerned the employee-recognition trip
wouldn't stand up to public scrutiny, so the guests were invited through phone
calls rather than e-mail - to keep word from slipping out.

The company also described the gathering as a "Global Implementation and Support
Event" at an "off-site location" to mask the true nature of the fun-in-the-sun
boat outing from regulators, the source said.

Monday's event isn't the only outing on tap for employees next week. On
Thursday, a 35-member sales team and its director will cut out of work to take
in the Yankees home game - at the company's expense, the source said.

WorldCom did not return calls for comment yesterday on the scheduled events.

WorldCom was charged with fraud by the Securities and Exchange Commission in
June after the company admitted it had misrepresented a whopping $3.8 billion in
costs.

A few suggested cocktails for WorldCom's booze cruise:

Frauditini

Empty martini glass

Olive

"WorldCom's hiding their expenses, we're hiding the alcohol"

Sullivan Slammer

1.5 oz Cuervo Gold

2 shakes of Tabasco

"A great way to warm up on those cold nights...in jail"

Wasn't Me Bellini

1 oz fresh Rhubarb Juice

1/2 oz sugar syrup

3 oz cold Prosecco

Developed by Lotus bartender Jason Cohen and director of marketing and events,
Wendy Hinton.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cruise ship.  Michael Sofronski

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               33 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 29, 2002, Sunday

IT'S ALL IN THE STARS

BYLINE: CYNTHIA VESPERENY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 431 words


Do investors need more convincing the frothy real estate market is about to
plunge or that the U.S. will soon be at war with Iraq?

It's all written in the stars, according to financial astrologer Henry
Weingarten, whose recent predictions included the Dow's powerful rally on July
24, when it gained 488 points.

While corrections in the housing market typically follow a plunge in stocks,
Weingarten said, he's convinced real estate has peaked because Jupiter,
representing homes, recently left Cancer, which represents growth.

So home values will get hammered and housing-related stocks such as Home Depot
won't see big gains anytime soon.

Many people disregard astrological predictions, but others - including some
investors - truly believe the stars have the ability to predict events on earth.

For those people, Weingarten has a mixed message about the short-term future of
the markets.

As for U.S. military action, President Bush "has Mars all over his horoscope,"
said Weingarten, noting Mars is the god of war. Bush - whose July 6 birthday
makes him a Cancer - is likely to be waging war against Iraq by 2003.

This isn't just a hobby for Weingarten; he's managing director of the New
York-based Astrologers Fund Inc., which makes its investment choices based on
the stars.

The astrologer, who uses fundamental and technical analysis in addition to
astrology, directly manages close to $5 million and figures he influences about
$250 million in investments through his newsletters.

He said Jupiter's opposition to Neptune - which started this month and will last
until May - is now key.

Though the position currently suggests more uncertainty, Weingarten expects its
meaning to shift to expansion and so is bullish near-term.

"This is a new zeitgeist," he said. "People are still thinking about the old
stuff."

Among sectors Weingarten favors are entertainment and media, aerospace, energy,
biotechnology and gold.

"If things get bad, people still want to be entertained," he said, adding that
he likes Sony, Matsushita and Philips.

In aerospace, he favors Boeing and United Technologies, and in the energy patch,
he likes drillers, particularly those with operations in North America.

He recommended playing the biotechnology sector by buying a basket of biotech
stocks and sees gold as a great cushion - breaking through $330 an ounce next
year.

He also encouraged more global holdings.

His favorite stock has long been IBM, despite its big losses this year. He
expects IBM to hit $130 next year.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WEINGARTEN Financial astrologer.

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               34 of 34 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           November 12, 2002, Tuesday

A FINE WAY TO FIGHT TERROR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 026

LENGTH: 313 words


News of the recent successful missile strike by a Predator unmanned aircraft
against a vehicle carrying six al Qaeda operatives in Yemen sure does warm the
heart.

One of the six men believed to have been obliterated was Senyan al-Harithi,
a.k.a. Abu Ali, a senior al Qaeda official and suspected key player in the 2000
bombing of USS Cole. He's also linked to the Oct. 7 bombing of a French tanker
off Yemen's coast.

The strike reportedly may have had an unexpected boon in the death of one Kamal
Darwish: A traitorous American citizen, Darwish is believed to have been the
recruiter and ringleader of the al Qaeda sleeper cell discovered in upstate
Lackawanna.

That he chose to hang out with the likes of Abu Ali - and to share Ali's fate -
spares Americans the hand-wringing over his "civil liberties." There is a war
on, remember. And terrorists, like Ali, are the enemy.

The CIA Predator was operating under a presidential "finding" that gives a
thumbs-up to covert operations against Osama bin Laden's terror network.

The triumph of this combined operation indicates a commendably proactive
approach by the Bush team to global terror. And a welcome refusal to be bound by
outmoded rules when fighting a stateless, ruthless enemy.

It also sends a message to al Qaeda terrorists that they are not safe from
America's cold anger even in distant, relatively lawless lands like Yemen.

Meanwhile, the State Department has tried to distinguish this act from targeted
assassinations carried out by Israel against Hamas terrorists, operations that
State misguidedly condemns.

There is, of course, no difference.

Such Israeli and U.S. strikes against known terrorist operatives both represent
a new, surgical way of carrying the war back to the bombers and their networks -
and a notably humane way compared, say, to Russia's bombardment of whole cities.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2002 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
