
                               2 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 7, 2009 Monday

HEAT ON NATIONS - WORLD LEADERS HAVE EMISSIONS MISSION

BYLINE: CHARLES HURT Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 472 words


COPENHAGEN - Leaders from more than 100 nations will begin gathering here this
week for the world's largest summit on climate change, with most, including
President Obama, carrying pledges to cut global-warming gases.

"Never in the 17 years of climate regulations have so many different nations
made so many firm pledges together," Yvo de Boer, the United Nations' top
climate official, said yesterday.

Hosted by the United Nations, the meeting's goal is "to deliver a strong and
long-term response to the challenge of climate change," said de Boer. He
predicted that the meeting would be a "turning point" in the fight against
global warming.

Negotiators hope to set stiff new targets for reducing emissions of carbon
dioxide and other global-warming gasses, especially those of the leading
contributors, the United States and China.

The conference also hopes to reach an agreement on how much money wealthy
countries such as the United States should pay poorer countries to help deal
with climate change.

Obama, who is scheduled to join the conference next week, has offered to cut US
emissions by 17 percent. But that offer is expected to go up in smoke when the
Senate rejects any treaty that is viewed by many as a job-killer.

As the summit approached, a poll came out yesterday showing that concern about
climate change around the world has declined, especially in countries that are
suffering from the economic crisis.

In North America, just 25 percent say they are "very concerned" about the human
impact on climate change.

Even before the historic gathering began yesterday, climatologists were battling
accusations that the science behind global warming claims has been hyped.

"For those who claim a deal in Copenhagen is impossible, they are simply wrong,"
said Achim Steiner, director of the United Nations' Environment Programs.

Also undermining efforts is the recent scandal spawned by e-mails leaked from a
British university showing worried scientists plotting to silence colleagues who
are skeptical about global warming.

"I think a lot of people are skeptical about this issue in any case," de Boer
told the AP yesterday. "And then when they have the feeling . . . that
scientists are manipulating information in a certain direction, then of course
it causes concern in a number of people to say, 'You see, I told you so. This is
not a real issue.' "

The summit's goal is to set a global cap of 44 billion tons of carbon dioxide
emitted annually by 2020. Annual emissions today total about 47 billion tons,
according to UN scientists.

Advanced countries such as the United States would be forced to cut emissions by
as much as 40 percent of 1990 levels over 10 years while developing countries
will by required to cut emissions by as much as 30 percent of 1990 levels.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOING GLOBAL: Danes stroll past a gigantic globe yesterday in
Copenhagen, which for the next two weeks will host an international summit on
climate change.  [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday

A 'BAN' ON ALL DISSENT - UN BIG FREEZES OUT OPPOSITION

BYLINE: Charles Hurt, D.C. Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 570 words


COPENHAGEN - For some in the great debate over climate change, science is for
sale and any evidence that does not support their prejudices is irrelevant.

Leading that charge yesterday against rational and open discussion was UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who told reporters that the recently leaked
e-mails from a British university's Climate Research Unit do nothing to
undermine his belief that the planet is doomed and humans are to blame.

These e-mails were private missives between the most highly regarded scientists,
researchers and scholars studying global warming.

It is largely their work that is the foundation on which the UN has built its
belief that global warming is real, it is undoubtedly caused by man, and the
temperatures are rising at an even more alarming rate than previously
understood.

And, of course, it is the basis for the two-week summit here where organizers
hope to set international law that will drastically hamper US industry and
severely limit personal freedoms, such as flying home for Christmas.

Oh, also, it would result in the United States writing yet another massive check
in foreign aid.

So it is nothing short of astonishing to hear Ban and other climate-change
faithful summarily dismiss a massive trove of alarming new evidence suggesting
flawed science and foul play are baked into their vaunted global warming
theories.

One e-mail refers to using a "trick" to "hide the decline" in temperatures.

Another has a scientist deep in the throes of frustration that all the
exhaustive data collected doesn't produce the expected temperature increases.

"We can have a proper result, but only by including a load of garbage!" he
determines.

"The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it
is a travesty that we can't," bemoans another scholar in one of the most
startling e-mails.

He goes on to say vastly complicated computer models show that temperatures
should be hotter now than they are.

"[T]he data are surely wrong," the deluded scientist concludes. "Our observing
system is inadequate."

Or, perhaps your conclusion is wrong there, doc.

This would be just a bunch of silly scientists with a dim grasp of the
scientific method, except it is so much more sinister.

One of the exposed e-mails instructs fellow scientists to destroy a chain of
damaging messages.

Another goes even further in a fatwa to silence independent scientists
challenging their dubious findings.

We "will keep them out somehow - even if we have to redefine what the
peer-review literature is!" the scientist raves.

In any court of law, such evidence would be grounds for mistrial.

Not here. Not at the UN.

Ban and all of his advocate-scientists will not be deterred by facts.

The UN's top climate scientist said yesterday the only question raised by the
e-mails is who revealed them and how that person should be punished.

It is a slight misnomer that people call this a religion.

There are certainly those who blindly believe, but it is driven by something
much more basic.

This is all about money.

Just yesterday, Bangladesh sent word that the storm-ravaged country expects a
massive payout from the UN fund that will be filled by taxpayers in countries
like the United States - punishment for our advancement and industry that has
fed so many hungry and cured so many sick.

Finally, Bangladesh has found the ticket into modern civilization.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EYES SHUT: A Haitian delegate struggles to stay awake in Copenhagen
yesterday.  [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday

AL SPARKS ICE STORM - SAYS CAP MAY MELT IN 5 YEARS

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 405 words


Al Gore claimed yesterday that the Arctic polar ice cap could melt away during
the summer months in as little as five years - which he insisted bolsters the
case for world leaders to immediately address climate change.

The former vice president, an Oscar-winner for his global-warming flick, "An
Inconvenient Truth," laid down the gauntlet at the Copenhagen Climate Change
Summit, where members of poor countries staged a brief boycott of talks with
wealthier nations.

But a scientist whose data he cited said Gore overstated the case.

Gore said new computer mapping research suggesting "that there is a 75 percent
chance that the entire north polar ice cap, during the summer months, could be
completely ice-free within five to seven years."

Gore said the analysis, conducted by Wieslaw Maslowski of the US Naval
Postgraduate School in California, is based on ice data obtained by American
submarines

"This report demonstrates that we must take action now to solve the climate
crisis," said Gore, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on the issue.

But Maslowski said the 75 percent probability Gore used "is not something I want
to stand behind." He said it was only a "ballpark figure" and would only vouch
for a "50 percent" likelihood.

Meanwhile, Copenhagen negotiators were working to get talks back on track after
top officials from developing nations staged a walkout - claiming that rich
countries like the United States need to cough up deeper emissions cuts as part
of any global deal.

Talks resumed late yesterday after several hours of a stalemate.

Meanwhile, Mayor Bloomberg, also in Copenhagen, appeared bullish about
developing wind power in New York after touring the world's largest wind farm
off Denmark's coast.

About 20 percent of Denmark's power comes from wind. Bloomberg noted that Con
Edison and the Long Island Power Authority are planning to develop a wind farm
about 15 miles off the Rockaway Peninsula.

Aside from producing zero pollution, the mayor marveled that the Danish wind
farms were so beautiful that they could pass for public art, even invoking the
name of Icelandic sculptor Olafur Eliasson.

"It's pretty hard to find any reason against it," he said.

But Bloomberg got snippy when asked about flying over to Copenhagen on his
carbon-spewing private jet.

"One small amount of carbon can get me here," Bloomberg said. "How did you get
here? Do you have any real questions?"

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: I'LL HAVE A DANISH: Mayor Bloomberg yesterday at the royal palace in
Copenhagen, where he hailed New York's clean-energy plan. [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 14, 2009 Monday

IT'S A HOT PLOT - AMERICA WON'T FALL FOR IT

BYLINE: Charles Hurt, D.C. Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 239 words


COPENHAGEN - In climate negotiations here, America is the Big Con.

If the rest of the world can just get us to fall for this swindle, they'll win
everything.

America will pay billions more to smaller countries around the globe and agree
to stifling restrictions that will hobble the very industries and personal
freedoms that make the nation the envied success it is today.

Americans will not fall for this because they always get suspicious when
somebody with a bunch of degrees starts talking about some huge problem that is
too complicated to explain, and yet is somehow responsible for both flooding and
droughts.

The culprit, they say, is carbon dioxide, which is killing everything. Yet,
without it, there would be no life on Earth.

Add to that a scandal showing these geniuses fudging their numbers and
squelching dissent.

The truth is, this global-warming hysteria is just the latest tactic by the same
enemies we have been fighting and crushing for a century.

All week, they have wagged their fingers at America. They call us stingy,
deadbeat and derelict.

And what country do environmentalists hold high as their example?

Seminars titled "Cuba's Energy Revolution," "Organic Urban Gardens in Cuba," and
"How Cuba Survived the Oil Crisis" give you some idea.

Just like the fascists and the communists, these people just want to dismantle
capitalism and bleed America dry.

It is their only hope for getting ahead.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TENSE CLIMATE: Protesters battle riot cops in Copenhagen, Denmark,
yesterday during the UN Climate Change Conference. Mayor Bloomberg arrives in
the Danish capital today on a two-day visit to tout New York City's green
efforts. [EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday

IFFY WEATHER - NEW WARMING RULES AMID E-LEAK DOUBTS

BYLINE: JENNIFER FERMINO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 445 words


The White House yesterday said it would set a greenhouse-emission-reduction
target at UN climate talks - as world leaders fended off questions over leaked
e-mails from researchers suggesting that scientists cooked the global-warming
books.

President Obama will decide in the coming days whether he will attend the talks
in Copenhagen, Denmark, next month, said a senior administration official who
spoke under the condition that he not be named.

The official said the president is prepared to propose a set goal for reducing
emissions for the US at the summit, which is aimed at forging a deal to fight
global warming after the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012.

It's the first time Obama has indicated that he will commit to a specific goal
in reducing emissions. He has so far kept mum on pending climate-change
legislation in Congress.

The House has passed a bill that calls for a 17 percent reduction in emissions,
while the Senate produced a bill last month aiming for a 20 percent reduction.

Meanwhile, the pro-climate-change community is still reeling from the series of
leaked e-mails that has left some critics convinced scientists have been
monkeying around with the numbers to make the problem seem more dire.

Dubbed "Climategate," a decade's worth of correspondence from researchers at the
University of East Anglia in England were stolen last week from a computer
server and released to the public.

The university has launched an investigation into who leaked the info.

In addition to revealing petty infighting between the eggheads, the e-mails cast
serious doubts on some of the research methods.

In one of the more damaging e-mails, a leading climate-change scientists from
England wrote, "We can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is
a travesty that we can't."

Another, sent in 1999, read, "I've just completed Mike's Nature [a science
journal] trick of adding in the real temps to each series for the last 20 years
(ie, from 1981 onwards) and from 1961 for Keith's to hide the decline."

Global-warming skeptics have seized on the e-mails as a game changer in the
debate.

The e-mails' release will speed the end of "global-warming alarmism," said Myron
Ebell, a climate-change skeptic at the Competitive Enterprise Institute.

He said research that has been relied upon for official reports "is now very
suspect."

With Post Wire Services

----

E-mail

From: Phil Jones, head of Climate Research Unit at University of East Anglia

Nov. 16, 1999

"I've just completed Mike's Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each
series for the last 20 years (ie, from 1981 onwards) and from 1961 for Keith's
to hide the decline."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOT STUFF: This e-mail is one that has caused doubts about how dire the
global-warming situation is.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              April 3, 2009 Friday

A 'SPIDEY' SIDESHOW ON SLOW DAY FOR PROTESTS

BYLINE: ANDY SOLTIS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 281 words


Anti-summit protests fizzled in London yesterday and were upstaged by a French
"Spider-Man" who climbed up the side of a bank building to warn of global
warming.

Alain Robert, who boasts of having scaled dozens of skyscrapers including the
Empire State Building, climbed nine stories of the 14-story Lloyds Bank without
the use of ropes.

Robert unfurled a yellow banner warning there were only "100 months" to save the
world from climate change. After 20 minutes, he descended and was arrested for
"aggravated trespass."

Elsewhere in the British capital, there were no violent or massive protests
against the G-20 summit like those on Wednesday, which challenged the London
police force.

Instead, demonstrators in France turned their fury on the city of Strasbourg,
where they vowed to wreck a two-day NATO summit to be attended by many of the
G-20 leaders.

As a warm-up yesterday, a few hundred hooded rioters smashed windows, vandalized
cars and clashed with police, who fired tear gas to keep them from reaching the
city's center. One soldier cornered by a mob of youths drew his gun to escape.

Tens of thousands of demonstrators were expected in Strasbourg and two nearby
German towns during the cross-border summit, which will mark NATO's 60th
anniversary.

President Obama will take part in two events in Strasbourg today before
traveling to Germany on the next leg of his first European tour since taking
office.

In contrast with the chaos in France, there was tight security and small crowds
near the G-20 summit site in east London's Docklands area. There was room for
about 6,000 protesters but only a few hundred turned up, the BBC reported.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET 'WARS': A sharply dressed G-20 demonstrator in "Star Wars"
headgear strolls past more traditionally helmeted riot cops in London. [EPA]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 7, 2009 Monday

MAYOR'S HOT-HEAD SCIENTISTS PUSH CLIMATE AHEAD OF JOBS

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 284 words


Forget about the recession and job security.

The threat of global warming is more important than the economic meltdown that
is ravaging the Big Apple. At least that seems to be the view of climate
scientists advising Mayor Bloomberg.

Cash-strapped Gotham and its struggling businesses should spend immediately to
mitigate the potential damage of rising sea levels, more frequent severe storms,
heat waves and droughts in the coming decades, the New York City Panel on
Climate Change recommends in a draft report.

"New York City should begin to adapt to climate change today. Investments are
needed to begin the climate change adaptation process even in times of economic
downturn," the group says in its new analysis obtained by The Post.

"Both public and private sectors should be allocating funds today . . . in order
to minimize climate risks that are only projected to grow in the future," the
report says.

But the 18-month study does not project how much it would cost taxpayers and
businesses to protect the city from the predicted catastrophies.

The panel said upcoming studies will focus on providing a cost-benefit analysis
and determine what protective measures are feasible.

The scientists insist that despite the "uncertainties that exist" about the
future threat of warming, the information currently available indicates it's
better to act and be safe rather than sorry.

But William Solecki, panel co-chair and professor at the CUNY Institute for
Sustainable Cities at Hunter College, admitted that for many people, the
economic crisis has temporarily put concerns over global warming on ice.

"Budgets are getting slashed. The conversation has become more difficult,"
Solecki said.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 25, 2009 Wednesday

UNSETTLING 'SCIENCE'

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 358 words


Man-caused global warming, the experts assure us, is a matter of "settled
science."

Could be - though newly revealed documents are raising serious questions as to
how that science got settled.

Or whether actual science had much to do with the settling at all.

More than 3,000 formerly private e-mails among leading climate scientists turned
up on the Internet last week after servers at the renowned Climate Research Unit
at the University of East Anglia in England were hacked.

No, there was no bombshell communiqué proving global warming to be an elaborate
hoax.

But the e-mails do seem to document a coordinated, stunningly unscientific
effort to quell dissent on the question.

CRU scientists and their colleagues, it appears:

* Coordinated efforts to oust journal editors who printed studies challenging
climate-change orthodoxy - thus denying skeptics the credibility that comes with
publication in "peer-reviewed" outlets.

* Used statistical tricks in their own research to hide inconvenient results -
specifically, evidence of declining temperatures.

* Conspired to delete information, requested under British Freedom of
Information laws, about the raw data that informs their climate models.

This, from the center that bills itself as "one of the world's leading
institutions concerned with the study of . . . climate change."

Is it possible that the "scientific community" doesn't know nearly as much as
global-warming alarmists claim?

Of course it is: Scientific inquiry is always unpredictable - as everyone from
Newton to Darwin can attest.

Which is why, even if everything now believed about global warming is 100
percent accurate, the groupthink on display in the CRU e-mails is still deeply
disturbing.

Without dissent, science becomes dogma.

And, lest it be forgotten, none of this is playing out in a vacuum: World
leaders meet next month in Copenhagen to discuss limiting greenhouse-gas
emissions - a summit where the "scientific consensus" may shape the fate of
literally trillions of dollars.

Indeed, who knows what interest is behind the hacking of CRU's computers?

All the more reason to get the science right.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday

TEMPERS HEATING UP OVER US 'SECRET'

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 261 words


The temperature is rising in Denmark!

The Copenhagen climate talks blew up yesterday as a secret document emerged that
would allow the United States to dictate terms to the United Nations and poor
countries about how to reduce greenhouse gases.

The so-called "Danish text" enraged environmentalists, as well as officials from
developing countries.

The 13-page proposal calls for ditching the principles of the Kyoto protocol,
which basically called for the world's most prosperous countries to cut
carbon-dioxide emissions, not smaller countries.

But under the plan prepared by the host country, Denmark, the United States and
Britain and other wealthier countries would be permitted to spew more CO2 per
capita than developing countries.

"The Obama administration's role in what appears to be a secret plot to
strong-arm through an agreement forcing poor countries to bear much of the cost
of reducing emissions is despicable," Friends of the Earth said.

Under the plan, the World Bank, rather than the United Nations, would handle
climate-change financing to developing countries.

Also on day two, the UN weather agency reported that the current decade is on
track to become the warmest since record-keeping began in 1850.

"The Earth is always warming and cooling. We happen to be in a warming phase
right now," said Princeton physics professor William Happer, a former top
official of the US Energy Department who oversaw climate-change research.

"We should go for the truth instead of supporting some kind of political agenda,
which is going on right now."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

STOKED FOR SUMMER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 722 words


Whether you're grabbing a board, or just dreaming of it, we have the scoop on
summer adrenaline sports. There's dry land, the waves, and even what's under
them. Is it OK to yell "Cowabunga!" in a deck chair?

Skateboarder magazine encourages you to lace up your most worn-out pair of Vans
and hit some sick verts. The magazine's July issue is replete with snapshots of
skaters on boards with nothing but air beneath them or riding rails or heading
perilously down flights of stairs in bookstores of all places. In a nutshell,
the mag's driven by its pictures - not the writing. Of all sports, surfing's got
the most plentiful and cheapest playing fields.

Surf magazine catches up to all those thousands of years of wasted waves -
unless cavemen were surfing, too - with incredible photos of board acrobatics 1n
the middle of spectacular waves. Besides obligatory hard bodies and beach
bunnies, Surf's extensive displays of surfing-gear ads show how advertisers love
the enthusiastically loyal surfer crowd. The range of articles might surprise
those who believe the sport is just balancing on a floating board. It's
part-Zen, with lots of travel, rigorous competition and physical discipline with
death-defying thrills (plus occasional shark chomps). One surprise: the Great
Lakes are a popular surf destination, with surf shops rising on chilly beaches
of Middle America.

Global warming threatens more than polar bears. Scuba Diving reports that rising
oceans also threaten some of the world's best dive spots, such as the Maldives.
Although more underwater territory may seem like a positive for the underwater
obsessed, it's bad news for marine life and fragile coral reefs. For most of us,
scuba diving conjures up images of tropical fish, coral reefs and warm water -
not diving through a hole in the Antarctica ice. Our idea of fun doesn't include
28-degree water.

Sorry, but we just couldn't get past the lameness of Surfing Magazine's Q&A and
bikini shot of some surfer's girlfriend. We checked the cover to make sure we
weren't mistakenly reading Surfing circa 1951, but alas, the mag appears to
regularly feature interviews of surfers' chicks. And it's not just that concept
that made us cringe. The execution was a problem, too. Readers of the July issue
get to learn about Jennifer Ceide, a 21-year-old from Ponce Inlet, Fla., who's
studying accounting. "Stop right there, you lost us," the interviewer whines at
the first mention of math. Ceide immediately concedes: "Sounds pretty boring,
huh?" Hopefully the readers here are all 14.

It is rather ironic that it has taken comedian and Newsweek guest editor Stephen
Colbert to remind us of the seriousness of the Iraq war, but he does, and it
works. Colbert himself provides only a column in the front and back of the
magazine and the letters to the editor, and they are quite funny. He makes
clear, though, that the reason he accepted the much-hyped job of guest editing
was that the issue would be focusing on Iraq, where 135,000 troops are still
stationed. Amidst D-Day celebrations there has been very little coverage of what
life is like for the American soldiers in Iraq, and Newsweek deserves credit for
shining a spotlight on them. Also, Colbert may not be above taking a shot at
Newsweek's main competitor, Time. In his lead essay, Colbert said he sent
Newsweek's reporters to find out whatever happened to Iraq and that meant
cutting the cover story about Twitter.

It may be no coincidence that Time's cover story is about Twitter, and one feels
that Time is catching up with the trend, as opposed to breaking ground. The
cover showing an iPhone with a Twitter message telling us we should buy a copy
of the magazine feels as exciting as spam. Time's tech theme includes a feature
about how Palm hopes to outpace the iPhone. There is, however, a
news-you-can-use piece about how bond investing over time can be more profitable
than investing in stocks.

A topic can grab a reader, and so can a sharp opening paragraph. In the new
issue of New York magazine listing the city's best doctors, a feature on Senator
Kirsten Gillibrand begins with a look at her day and makes one interested in
learning more about the emerging power broker. There is also good eye candy in a
graphic-filled feature about how graduates, including from the NYPD, view the
world.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 15, 2009 Monday

PRINCE PUT HIMSELF IN APOLLO PARTY MIX

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 745 words


LAST week I reported Jamie Foxx, Patti LaBelle, Phylicia Rashad, Mariah, Quincy,
Cosby, Prince helped celebrate the Apollo's 75th birthday. This week I learned
how  come Prince was on the show. He wasn't billed. Wasn't advertised. Wasn't
even mentioned beforehand. He was a total surprise. He ended up on the show
because he wanted to. He asked to. It was his idea. Nobody reached out to him.
Out of the blue, he called and offered. Like the others who got a start there,
he hasn't forgotten.

OUR governor, born in 1954, celebrated his birthday Thursday at the Mandarin
Oriental. Bill Clinton sent a video in which he recalled David's grandfather was
a blacksmith and one of the mares he shod was the horse that in 1919 gave Man of
War his only defeat. The horse's name? Upset.

Paterson's early stand-up cocktail party was so overcrowded with 500 guests that
fire marshalls were summoned. The later private sit-down at $25,000-per was 50
people who had dinner with him. That is, they had dinner - salmon or sirloin -
he never sat down. His table had First Lady Michelle Paterson, her friends and
her stunning 20-year-old daughter, Ashley, who wants to be in government. They
all sat. He didn't. I know because I ate his roll.

The Gov. opened the dinner with: "At an event like this, everyone likes to speak
to the leaders. Unfortunately, nobody knows who the leaders are."

This he didn't say. Me, I'm saying it. These so-called leaders who just grabbed
power in Albany? Their main public-service record is their rap sheet.

KYLIE Minogue's new guy is 10 years younger. A model. Andres Velencoso . . .
It's been in the 50s this week. What global warming? . . . Calvin Klein razed
his Hamptons castle, with its real shark pond and period rooms with fireplaces
and moldings imported from Europe. Just bulldozed it. His new Southampton place
will be a nice plain simple $20 mil job . . . While Madonna's used Stella
McCartney's shoulder, Guy Ritchie's turned to Jude Law to help him move to a new
house . . . Leslie Crocker Snyder telling friends she is releasing a new poll as
we speak that says she's "way ahead" in the Manhattan DA race.

JAMES Francis Ginty - do not call him just James Ginty. He wants it known he's
James Francis Ginty. He's an actor. A drop-dead gorgeous handsome one. Also the
bad guy in Bruce Willis' soon-to-be released "The Surrogate."

He said: "I'm the mastermind in this. I age from 17 to 70. My character is two
people. I play mostly the 17-year-old dapper young guy, and when I hit 70, even
though I sat four hours a day in makeup, it's James Cromwell who plays him. See,
there's a murder and Bruce solves it, and I'm a robot human-controlled pod
having sex with a blonde in an alley before they kill me through an OD device."

I understood nothing of what he said. I didn't care either. It's a pleasure just
to look at him. An Arrow Collar ad, midday he wore a bespoke suit, spit-shined
black shoes, striped shirt with French cuffs, silk polka-dot tie. He went to
Juilliard, his mother is best friends with Annette Bening, he doesn't drink or
do drugs and he's also a ballet dancer who's straight.

"Bruce picked me personally for this . . . It's a $200 million film . . . lots
of effects . . . we shot six months, but the whole thing took a year in Boston
including pre-production . . . Bruce was wonderful and caring. He'd rehearse
with me. He'd sit on an upended box out of camera range to help my close-ups.
When I wanted another take, he said, 'Film's the cheapest thing around here. Get
what you need. However many takes until you feel you're done.'

"He was so great that I bought him a gift, a chess set, on the last day to say
thanks."

OK, fine. Great. Now to important things. What's Bruce's brand-new wife like?
"Emma Heming is gorgeous. She was on the set. She's delightful. Friendly, warm.
Like one day I'm walking by a coffee shop, and there's a knock on the window.
Emma. Motioning me to come in and join them."

The thing is Touchstone. Out in September.

TWO Gary Rosens intertwine in this industry. One's a showbiz agent, one a p.r.
agent. The p.r. one's BlackBerry rang. In Miami. The caller said, "Gary Rosen? I
found your BlackBerry on the train." Laughing, the p.r. GR said, "Must be the
other one's." The p.r. GR called the other GR, who sighed, "Can you believe, I
just lost my BlackBerry. Left it on the train." Then p.r. GR said: "They're
delivering it to my office."

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

'POLLUTION VICTIM' MIKE GASPING

BYLINE: DAVID SEIFMAN, City Hall Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 442 words


Mayor Bloomberg talked up climate change at the Copenhagen summit yesterday,
pointing to a new air-quality survey back home showing some of the city's
wealthiest neighborhoods - including his own - are among the most polluted.

The survey, conducted by the Health Department between December 2008 and March
2009 using 150 sensors mounted on light poles, determined that residents of East
and central Harlem were breathing easier in that period than those on the Upper
East Side.

Officials said that was because the high-income ZIP code has a large
concentration of high-rises burning heavy oil, which, combined with heavy
traffic volume, spewed more pollutants into the air.

Bloomberg spent his second day in Copenhagen, accompanied by six aides and a
security detail, promoting windmills and crowing about the progress made by
cities in battling global warming.

While addressing a climatechange panel, he referenced the city air-quality
report and talked up the city's efforts.

The mayor - who lives on the Upper East Side - seized on the report as evidence
that the environment should be everyone's concern.

"I think this is going to get people to say, 'Wait a minute. I didn't realize it
was in my neighborhood,' " he said.

Dr. Thomas Matte, the city Health Department's director of environmental
research, said: "I would say that finding was somewhat surprising."

Officials stressed the results were sure to change when the numbers are compiled
for the summer months, when energy patterns shift.

Meanwhile, Bloomberg insisted the work on climate change was necessary.

"At the level that we work, there really is progress," he declared.

"Whether or not at the national level you can come up with an agreement, I don't
know."

Bloomberg defended traveling to the conference in his private jet, which critics
charge makes him a polluter.

"The bottom line is a small amount of pollution gets me here and hopefully we
can convince a lot of people to make a big difference," he said.

Bloomberg traveled with a photographer, an advance person, his spokesman, a
deputy mayor and one of his environmental officials.

Gov. Paterson's office said it had three aides there, but that their time and
travel was being paid for by the private Rockefeller Brothers Fund.

---

Life and breath in NYC  (map graphic)

Air quality in city neighborhoods:

Best

1. Tottenville

2. New Springville/ South Beach

3. Canarsie/ Flatlands

4. Coney Island/ Brighton Beach

5. Rockaways

Worst

1. Midtown

2. University Heights/ Fordham/Mount Hope

3. Greenwich Village/ SoHo

4. Stuyvesant Town/ Turtle Bay

5. Upper East Side

Source: City Health Department Community Air Survey

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AIR IT OUT: Hizzoner, yesterday in Copenhagen with that city's mayor,
Ritt Bjerregaard, cited a study showing the Upper East Side's air quality is
worse than Harlem's.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday

AIRFARES COULD DOUBLE IF CLIMATE PLAN TAKES OFF

BYLINE: GEOFF EARLE Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 262 words


WASHINGTON -  Frequent fliers could be heading into turbulence if the worldwide
push for new carbon regulation goes forward -  with fuel costs set to soar and
the cost of a flight to London more than doubling, a new study concludes.

The cost of a round-trip flight from New York to London -  what well-heeled
business types might consider a simple hop across "the Pond" -  would rise by a
whopping 140 percent, according to a study in New Scientist magazine.

Nonstop flights from La Guardia to London's Heathrow Airport for New Year's Day
were going for $800 online yesterday -  meaning the cost could soar to $1,920.

Electricity prices would jump 15 percent, enough to sock a family's utility
bill.

Other hits to consumers wouldn't be as bad.

Food, clothing, and cars would rise 1 percent. Electronics would rise 2 percent,
meaning a $1,000 laptop would cost an extra $20. Booze and tobacco would also go
up by about 2 percent.

Those smaller increases are leading some experts to conclude the costs of a new
climate treaty won't be debilitating.

"These results show that the global project to fight climate change is doable,"
Alex Bowen, a climate-policy expert at the London School of Economics, told the
magazine.

"It's not such a big ask as people are making out."

The model assumes an 80 percent cut in emissions by 2050.

Energy-intensive industries would take the biggest hit, and energy prices
themselves would soar, according to the study.

The study was released just days before the start of the UN climate summit in
Copenhagen, which starts on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

THE COPENHAGEN CLIMATE CON

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 344 words


The White House announced Wednes  day that President Obama will travel   next
month to Copenhagen to participate in the United Nations' Climate-Change
Conference.

Here's hoping he does better than he did the last time he stopped by that city.

Or, more to the point, here's hoping he doesn't allow America's pockets to be
picked totally clean by the shamsters, scam artists and assorted
"global-warming" opportunists who also will be in town for the occasion.

For, make no mistake: The whole point of the exercise is to transfer a trillion
bucks from the economies of the world's developed nations to Third World
kleptocrats -  with God-only-knows how much cash sticking to the fingers of
well-connected UN bureaucrats.

(Remember Oil For Food? Chump change compared to what the world body could be up
to this time.)

This will be Obama's second highly publicized visit to the land of Hans
Christian Andersen in two months.

In October, he led a delegation that included his wife Michelle, Oprah Winfrey,
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley and other Second City VIPs on a quest to obtain the
2016 Summer Games.

The foray turned into a major embarrassment: Chicago, one of four finalists, was
eliminated on the first ballot. (If the process had been an Olympic event,
Chicago wouldn't even have copped the bronze medal.)

This time Obama will appear before the UN's climate-control confab.

He reportedly intends to offer a goal of cutting US greenhouse emissions by 17
percent of 2005 levels by 2020.

The White House won't declare exactly what sort of an impact that goal will have
on the US economy. Or, more likely, it just doesn't know how much wreckage it
will cause.

Rest assured, though: It will be a lot.

And, of course, it's not even clear to what purpose the damage is being done.

As is becoming increasingly clear from those hacked e-mails from the British
University of East Anglia's Climactic Research Unit, a lot of the "science"
underlying the Copenhagen conference needs to be reconsidered.

The president should be rethinking his policies, as well.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 19, 2009 Saturday

OBAMA DOES IT AGAIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 331 words


President Obama reportedly was reluctant to attend the final day of the UN's
Copenhagen climate-change summit unless it was front-end wired to be a major
political success.

But he went anyway, was twice humiliated in public by the Chinese premier and
then finally settled for what the White House hailed as a "meaningful
agreement."

Really? A top aide admitted that the deal was basically just "an important first
step" that was "not sufficient to combat the threat of climate change."

Then Obama himself dropped the other shoe: The agreement contains no specific
commitments on carbon emissions, only pledges that "will not be legally
binding."

So what the hell was the point?

One would think that Obama had taken a lesson from his last trip to Copenhagen -
when he thought his presence alone would win the 2016 Olympic games for Chicago.

That is, that he would have learned that it is a mistake to publicly commit
presidential prestige to an outcome that isn't locked up in advance.

Obviously, not.

So much for two years of work and a supposedly broad international consensus
that was to make the Copenhagen conference little more than a formality.

Clearly, yesterday was about squabbling over how much money we'll borrow from
the Chinese so that we can give it right back to Beijing and other Third World
countries in exchange for their promise to . . . well, that was never clear.

And twice yesterday, Obama was kept waiting in public by China's premier.

This is scary stuff.

Obviously, the rest of the world has taken measure of Barack Obama - and decided
he's a pushover.

On the merits, not unfairly.

Now, we're not going to feign heartbreak over the outcome itself.

The conference was a UN-sponsored effort to pick the West's pockets on behalf of
its own bureaucrats, plus assorted Third World kleptocrats, and it deserved to
die ignominiously.

As for Obama, it was clear from Day One that he was on a very steep learning
curve.

But who imagined it was this steep?

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday

SEAL OF APPROVAL - CAN WE LOVE A MIX OF POLITICS AND MOTOWN? YES WE CAN!

BYLINE: DAN AQUILANTE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 461 words


POLITICS and passion are the heart of "Soul," the remarkable Motown covers album
that Seal will perform Thursday at his Radio City Music Hall recital.

For more than 20 years, this Englishman of Nigerian descent has possessed a
voice that makes you want to party when he sings "Crazy," or that gives you
shivers with the purity of his notes when he delivers his signature piece, "Kiss
From a Rose."

Yet with this album, the 46-year-old singer, husband of supermodel Heidi Klum,
sought music with built-in power because of the political climate.

"The whole reason this album came about was not only because of what was going
on in America, but what was happening worldwide," Seal explains. "When I started
making this record, people all over the world - especially the youth - were
frustrated by the recklessness of our governments. There was a general want for
things to get better."

He pauses, searching for words, and adds, "It was a global collective
consciousness - a desire for change - that manifested itself through President
Obama."

For Seal, that translated into a Motown/ soul covers album that opens with Sam
Cooke's "A Change Is Gonna Come" and bows with the equally moving Curtis
Mayfield classic "People Get Ready." Without hesitation, Seal says, "I believe
if change had a voice, these are the songs it would sing."

Other classic soul tunes Seal tapped for this record - and which he's been
performing on the tour - include "Stand by Me," "Free" and "It's Alright."

"These were all fantastic songs the day they were written, and they're still
brilliant. I knew what I wanted to say on this album, and these songs said it,"
he says.

Besides possessing a fine tenor and an ear for a good melody, Seal has always
prided himself on his ability to create original music. Although his most
popular song, "Kiss From a Rose," was only warmly received when it was first
released in '94, the single got a second wind when it was featured in the film
"Batman Forever."

Eventually, "Kiss" earned Seal the Grammy for Record of the Year and another for
Song of the Year (the coveted songwriting category).

Because Seal is a writer, he knows how to treat other composers' songs. "The
thing about doing a cover song," he says, "is you have to first respect the
song, and then you have to be able to bring something new to it. That means: Do
justice to the tune, and don't change it for the sake of change."

He's careful, he says, not to gild the lily. "Stay away from vocal acrobatics
and concentrate on producing beautiful tones when you sing," he says. "When I
hear someone using a lot of vocal gymnastics in what's already a good song, I
think they're compensating for a lack of good tone."

On this record, he followed his own rules and created a masterpiece.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Seal mixes classic grooves with current events in his concert. [John
Parra/WireImage]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday

PELOSI'S CLIMATE AIR FARCE

BYLINE: CHARLES HURT Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 442 words


WASHINGTON - House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is leading a large delegation on at
least two Air Force jets to Copenhagen for the climate summit - where
participants harshly condemn the use of jet airplanes for the high amounts of
CO2 they emit.

"This may be the largest congressional delegation I have ever heard of," said a
source at the 89th Air Wing stationed at Andrews Air Force Base of the trip to
the UN summit, which is increasingly being criticized as a farce.

Using her authority as speaker, Pelosi reserved at least two jets based at
Andrews AFB to fly her and her delegation to Denmark for the final days of the
two-week conference.

But Republicans on Capitol Hill and the 89th Air Wing source said Pelosi
actually reserved five planes to carry a delegation that includes as many as 24
Democrats and six Republicans.

At a time when Democrats are grappling with a host of major issues from
health-care reform to the financial crisis, Pelosi planned yesterday to clip
short the workweek to make the climate summit.

"Climate change is a religion for them, so there was no way they were going to
miss this," said one top GOP aide. "This is their Hajj."

A Democratic source insisted that the delegation would be using just two planes
but would not specify further.

While the final manifest remained in flux late yesterday, it was said to include
more than two dozen members of Congress, several spouses and committee staffers.

Rep. Charles Rangel (D-Harlem) was among those planning to go because of his
duties as chairman of the House Ways & Means Committee, a staffer told The Post.

"We all know that Charlie Rangel is a big fan of subsidizing his vacation with
taxpayer money, but the truly offensive aspect of this is Nancy Pelosi's
decision to bring the corrupt Harlem Democrat along for the ride," said
Republican spokesman Ken Spain.

The 89th Air Wing's biggest planes are the military versions of the Boeing 757
and the Boeing 737.

The 757 carries 45 passengers and costs more than $10,000 per hour to fly,
according to Air Force figures.

The roundtrip cost to Copenhagen and back for the C-32A would cost taxpayers
$160,000.

The 737 carries 26 passengers and costs about $7,500 per hour of flight time,
bringing the costs of a Copenhagen jaunt to $120,000.

The smaller Gulfstreams hold 12 passengers apiece, but only the Gulfstream V has
the range to reach Copenhagen from Washington without refueling. It costs more
than $4,300 per hour to fly, bringing that taxpayer tab to more than $68,000 for
a weekend in Copenhagen.

These figures do not include the cost of keeping the planes and flight crews on
the ground in Copenhagen.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NANCY PELOSI Burning lots of jet fuel.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 27, 2009 Saturday

AMERICAN UNDERDOGS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 181 words


The United States may be the world's sole superpower - but on the soccer field,
at least, Americans are still seen as second-tier upstarts.

Which makes it all the more satisfying when the powers of Europe are brought
down to size.

The US soccer team Thursday notched a stunning 2-0 upset over mighty Spain in
the semifinals of the Confederations Cup in South Africa - one of the main warm
-up tournaments ahead of the World Cup there next year.

Spain, the reigning European champion and the top-ranked team worldwide, hadn't
lost in international play since 2006 - a record 35-game streak.

Likely, the Spanish just weren't expecting much of a fight from the plucky
Yanks, who now face Brazil for the championship tomorrow.

Not that this victory necessarily foretells a rise to global dominance for US
soccer, of course. It's a proud mark of American exceptionalism that, here, the
sport that commands near-religious devotion elsewhere ranks somewhere between
hockey and pro bowling.

But that doesn't mean there's anything wrong with beating the world at its own
game.

USA! USA! USA!

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 12, 2009 Monday

HOLIDAZE FOR PC CAMPUS CLOWNS

BYLINE: Andrea Peyser

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 985 words


IWISH everyone a happy and joyous Columbus Day. That is, unless you attend
Columbia University, that lefty Ivy campus uptown  that is - holy irony! - named
for none other than Christopher Columbus himself.

Today, city schoolkids, government offices, courts and your mailman take a day
off to honor the guy who paved the way for modern civilization. But at Columbia,
classes are running as usual, as a wimpy administration, I have learned,
conducts a stealth ban on Columbus.

Rather than nuke the holiday, Columbia ignores it. That is, Columbia simply
wishes Columbus Day would go away.

Social critics say there exists a war on Christmas, with a manger dismantled at
the Staten Island Mall, religious music removed from schools in Maplewood, NJ,
and - for goodness' sake - red and green napkins prohibited on school tables in
Plano, Texas.

But I would venture to say that the war on Columbus Day is far more virulent.
While no one would dare malign the Christian savior, shouts of "murderer" have
long been carpet-bombing the Italian explorer who stumbled on the Americas,
thereby setting the stage for the creation of penicillin, malls and Twitter.

Just this spring, Brown University in Rhode Island became the latest
fuzzy-headed institution to declare the celebration of Columbus Day
"inconsistent with the university's values." To hoots of derision, Brown renamed
the three-day holiday "Fall Weekend." Brown follows the lead of such fine
municipalities as Berkeley, Calif., which rid itself of Columbus Day back in
1992, and celebrates each year with a powwow.

But at Columbia, the only recognition of the day is a free barbecue thrown by
the College Republicans.

"We simply want to mark Columbus Day and to celebrate his positive actions and
keep the day from silently passing the university by," said Derek Turner,
director of communications for Columbia's Republicans.

He said his group does not excuse the crimes of Columbus, such as spreading
disease and slavery to the native population. A population that, no one wants to
admit, practiced slavery itself.

However, Columbus' arrival in the Western World "marked the establishment of the
United States - the nation that today is actively fighting slavery in other
countries of the world," he said.

Turner said he was disappointed not to see any mention of Columbus Day on
campus, other than some large protest banners "describing the Columbus-inspired
holocaust."

I called Columbia to ask how a campus that detests Columbus justifies giving a
forum to Iranian madman Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. No one got back to me.

Virtually no public institutions in the five boroughs are open today. The CUNY
system is closed. Fifth Avenue halts for the Columbus Day Parade.

Only the private NYU, Columbia's kissing cousin in correctness, is joining it in
holding classes today. Even Brown is closed.

Had Columbus never set foot in the West, Columbia University would never have
been created. And political correctness would not exist.

Thanks a lot, Columbus.

THY'VE GOT A LOT OF PERV IN H'WOOD

It's even more fashionable than divorce, adultery or overdose. In Hollywood,
pedophilia is the new black.

Teenagers, take cover! Tinseltown is following last year's dreadful "The Reader"
- the tale of a 30-something female Nazi prison guard who seduces a 15-year-old
boy - with offerings to warm the heart of a Thailand sex tourist.

There's "An Education," the story of a 16-year-old schoolgirl seduced by a
playboy twice her age. And "Precious," co-executive-produced by Oprah Winfrey,
about an urban teenager who gives birth to two of her own father's children.

We're clearly seeing the Roman Polanski Effect on a town that's the most
perverted on the planet. It doesn't help that Harvey "Free Roman!" Weinstein set
the agenda, when his petition to cut loose the child rapist attracted the likes
of moral heavyweight Woody Allen.

Weinstein actually said, "Hollywood has the best moral compass because it has
compassion."

Well, Hollywood did have compassion for Michael Moore's "Capitalism: A Love
Story," a head-scratching anti-America screed executive-produced by Weinstein.

I wonder how much of the movie's capitalistic profits will be donated to abused
children?

BUMPY RIDE ON THE PEACE TRAIN

Here's something on which the right and the left can agree: Give President Obama
the Nobel Peace Prize? Not a great idea.

While the right was busy slamming the brain trust in Oslo for awarding the Nobel
to a man who hasn't actually done anything, like winning the fight against
terrorists in Afghanistan, the left slammed Obama - for failing to hug
terrorists in Afghanistan.

Northern Irish Nobel laureate Mairead Maguire said she was disappointed because
Obama "continues the policy of militarism and occupation of Afghanistan, instead
of dialogue and negotiations with all parties to the conflict."

This is the same Maguire who was arrested in Israel this summer with
laughingstock ex-Rep. Cynthia McKinney of Georgia for their work to help Arabs
and hurt Israel.

Maguire in 1976 started a long line of future chuckleheads, including the
anti-Semitic Jimmy Carter, terror-loving Yasser Arafat and global-warming
exaggerator Al Gore, by putting a Nobel on her mantle.

And Obama wants this?

TOP COP OUTSHINES QUARTET OF MAYORS

The four living mayors appeared in the same room for charity. Who do you think
won the loudest cheers?

Police Commissioner Ray Kelly.

Mayors Bloomberg, Koch, Dinkins and Giuliani - who appeared on videotape - came
to the Hilton Thursday night for the New York Police & Fire Widows & Children's
Benefit Fund dinner.

The -audience greeted the mayors warmly, and gave faint applause to outgoing
Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta, but it was Kelly who had people on their
feet. And he didn't give a speech.

I think this guy has a future.

David Letterman Countdown Clock

1,177 Days until the horndog's contract expires

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOODBYE, COLUMBUS:It's a banner day on Fifth Avenue (above) for the
Columbus Day Parade, but they're not celebrating at terminally preachy Columbia.
(Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

BERLIN WALL BLUNDER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 390 words


World leaders past and present will be in Berlin today for the 20th anniversary
of the fall of communist repression's most visible symbol: the 112-mile concrete
wall that split the city for more than a quarter-century.

Conspicuously absent: the president of the United States, Barack Obama.

Obama's folks say he's too busy to accept German President Angela Merkel's
invitation to attend today's festivities

It's pathetic that Obama won't be there - and telling, as well.

After all, it was one of his own supposed heroes, President John F. Kennedy, who
famously flew to Berlin in 1963 and denounced the wall as "an affront to
history" when he memorably proclaimed to all the world: "Ich bin ein Berliner."

And it was another predecessor, Ronald Reagan, who even more famously stood
before the heinous barrier and declared: "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!"

Less than two years later, the wall had tumbled.

But, then, Reagan - like JFK - viewed the Cold War as a defining battle between
freedom and oppressive totalitarianism. And it was a war, he said, that the
West, led by America, had to win.

For Reagan, that meant ongoing confrontation with what he rightly called "the
Evil Empire." By openly declaring that America would never allow the Soviet bloc
to triumph, he paved the way for the collapse not only of the Berlin Wall but of
communism itself.

It was also, he understood, the triumph of American exceptionalism, leadership
and strength.

All of which runs counter to Obama's view of America's global role - and how to
deal with adversaries.

For Obama, America is but one nation among many, no different - or more
exceptional - than any other. Its record is one that, increasingly, he has felt
compelled not to extol but to apologize for.

And, for this president, ideologies bent on America's destruction must be met
not with resistance but with rhetoric, outreach and "understanding."

The Cold War, in this view, is an irrelevant historical relic - an example of
American paranoia and fear-mongering prolonging a conflict that could have been
resolved with warm-and-fuzzy speechmaking and the soft-pedaling of political
differences.

Gone, it seems, are the days when America championed freedom, led by presidents
whose oratory was matched by commitment and determined action.

It's not only shameful - but dangerous.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday

ANIMAL SOUNDS - CLAWS COME OUT IN SHAKIRA S NEW SHE WOLF

BYLINE: DAN AQUILANTE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 500 words


LADIES with claws are popular.

Earlier this month, actress Demi Moore declared herself a puma. And on Shakira's
new record, "She Wolf," out today, the sexy Colombian chanteuse says she's
possessed by the spirit of the title animal - loba in Spanish.

Speaking to The Post during a rehearsal break for her 2010 world tour, the
petite blond singer was warm and vivacious, hardly a beastie girl from the deep
woods.

She says she titled her album "She Wolf" because the wolf is "the symbol that
represents the woman of our times." We all know how sharp the wolf's teeth are -
but Shakira laughs off the threat, saying, "I'm totally harmless."

Perhaps.

"The she-wolf is a woman who knows what she wants and is able to go after her
dreams," says Shakira. "She's in touch with her deepest desires. In every woman,
there is an animalistic, primal, instinctive nature that is sometimes
irrational. There is a she-wolf in me."

Shakira is 32 and has made music and danced all her life. She recalls her very
first performance was an impromptu dance on top of a table at a Middle Eastern
restaurant to the beat of the doumbek, a traditional Arab drum used to accompany
belly dancers. Since then, she's written and released six studio albums and
become a global star.

Still, she admits she didn't really know freedom until recently.

"I lived in a gilded cage that I built myself," she says.

"I was always trying to please the desires of others, and I didn't listen to my
inner self. Nobody noticed that I was being suffocated."

Shakira's metamorphosis came in part with her incredible wealth and fame - but
it's also due to self-examination.

"I learned to rid myself of guilt and punishment," she says. "I was my own worst
enemy because I repressed myself. Life is too brief to be that way. Now I feel
like the owner of my life."

She's not just talking the talk. Shakira is as popular in Latin America as she
is here, but that world remains a bastion where machismo is near the core of a
culture where women are defined by their men. Shakira's relationship with
boyfriend Antonio de la Rua steps outside of convention in the Latin world. They
are a couple in love - and yet they remain unmarried after nearly a decade
together.

"It might seem like I'm rebelling, but I just don't want to submit myself to the
old rules," she says.

"The world has changed and we live in a new order. Antonio and I have reflected
on the subject [of marriage] many times. When we met I was 23 and he was 26, and
of course I dreamt of a white gown and walking down the aisle. It was the dream
of a girl.

"Now I dream about other things," she says. "I dream about growing old next to
him and about having kids together." While she hasn't ruled out a formal
wedding, she seems to enjoy her relationship just as it is.

Shakira says the ideal society for lobos y lobas - wolves and shewolves - is one
where "we live as free as possible without hurting anyone. I respect everyone's
liberties and defend my own."

Spoken like a true she-wolf.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHAKIRA.  (Jaume de la Iguana)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

MIKE'S CALL TO ARMORY - WILL VETO COUNCIL'S VOTE TO KILL 1,200 JOBS

BYLINE: DAVID SEIFMAN City Hall Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 453 words


Mayor Bloomberg yesterday vowed to veto an overwhelming City Council vote
killing a planned redevelopment of The Bronx's Kingsbridge Armory into a
shopping mall - saying the loss of the 1,200 jobs it would have created in the
current economy was "really unfortunate."

The measure was rejected Monday by the council after months of opposition from
labor unions and others who wanted every retailer signing a lease there to be
required to pay a "living wage" of $10 an hour, plus benefits, when the minimum
wage is $7.25.

Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. triumphantly crowed after the measure was
voted down that no jobs were better than low-paying ones.

"We here maintain that notion that any job is better than no job no longer
applies," he said.

"What happened . . . at the City Council is historic. . . . It is huge in that
for the very first time in a long time, we've seen how the interests of the
people have prevailed over corporate America - and boy, does that feel good!"

But Bloomberg, speaking to reporters as he attended the Copenhagen
climate-change summit, accused council members - who smacked down the project
45-1 - of acting for "parochial reasons," meaning their own political concerns.

He added, "We will veto it. It is the right project for The Bronx."

But there are clearly enough votes to handily override a veto.

Still, Bloomberg was insistent, saying, "This would generate a lot of jobs -
1,000 construction jobs, 1,200 permanent jobs.

"To turn down this project at a time when we really need those jobs is really
unfortunate."

The death of the armory revamp was an unusual defeat on a development plan for
Bloomberg, whose proposals have generally been pushed forward by the council
under Speaker Christine Quinn.

Bloomberg insisted the vote "would have turned out differently" if the
legislator representing the area wasn't absent.

Councilwoman Maria Baez, who represents Kingsbridge, is battling a serious
illness and has been absent for weeks.

Had she been around to spearhead the campaign, the mayor said, "I think the vote
would have turned out differently."

Critics had said the vote was a blow for the administration and a clear
indication of a change in the city's approach to development.

The proposed mall was supposed to be developed by Related Companies, a firm that
has worked on other projects around the city and alongside the Bloomberg
administration.

The opposition was led in large part by the retail workers union and its head,
Stuart Appelbaum.

---

'We here maintain that notion that any job is better than no job no longer
applies.' - Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. (left) on City Council vote
against Kingsbridge Armory (right) redevelopment

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Kingsbridge Armory. -Ruben Diaz Jr. -Kingsbridge Armory.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

BAM PLAN MAY RAISE GAS

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 135 words


President Obama's plan to force energy producers to pay for spewing greenhouse
gases could cost American consumers an additional $1,437 in utility costs and
higher prices at the pump by 2015, according to a new study.

Obama's plan "is the equivalent of a permanent tax increase for the average
American households," according to the analysis released yesterday by the George
C. Marshall Institute.

The study estimates that electricity costs would jump up from 5 to 15 percent by
2015, natural gas prices by 12 to 50 percent and the price at the pump by 16
cents to $2.58 per gallon.

The report said this could cost "hundreds of thousands" of energy workers their
jobs as firms try to meet the stricter anti-warming targets.

The analysis is based on climate legislation that was debated in Congress last
year.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 4, 2009 Sunday

CAP-AND-CONCEAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 323 words


The Obama administration just blew the whistle on . . . itself: The Treasury
Department has reported that Team Obama's claims about the "nominal" costs of
its cap-and-trade bill aren't really so nominal, after all.

And Team Obama knew it all along.

Nice. In one fell swoop, the Obama folks broke two separate campaign promises:

* No new taxes on anyone making less than $250,000 a year.

* Complete transparency in the legislative process.

How exactly did it break these vows?

Look at the Treasury report.

The report shows that the cap and-trade bill the White House is pushing in
Congress - in which companies have to buy "allowances" for carbon emissions - is
far more expensive for Americans than advertised.

Sure, everyone knew the firms would pass these costs along to customers. But
supporters of the bill claimed that consumers would face only "nominal"
increases - barely $200 a year.

Wrong. The Treasury analysis puts the actual nationwide cost of cap-and-trade at
some $200 billion a year - or $1,761 per household. That figure is very close to
the $1,870 amount estimated by the Heritage Foundation prior to the vote in the
House.

Families will be hit with a steep climate-change tax, after all. And that will
certainly include working- and middle-class folks who make less than $250,000 a
year.

Second, the analysis was kept secret and only recently leaked. That directly
violates President Obama's vows of transparency.

Even so, the bill barely passed in the House, 219-212, with 40 Democrats voting
against it. It's facing difficulty in the Senate, too: Ten Dems there urged that
it be dumped in favor of a carbon tariff. (This is called compromise,
Democratic-style: Instead of a job-killing cap-and-trade tax, they settle for a
job-killing import tax.)

This bill needs to die in the Senate.

More troubling, though, is the wholesale breaking of Obama's vows.

After all, this is only his first year in office.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 9, 2009 Friday

SEEING RED OVER GREENS

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 110 words


The president of the US Chamber of Commerce yesterday swung his ax at
environmental groups, which he blames for pressuring companies to quit the trade
group over its position on climate change.

"There is underway an orchestrated pressure campaign by a couple of
environmental groups," said chamber boss Thomas Donohue at a press conference in
Washington, adding his group won't bend on the issue.

Apple, California power company PG&E and Nike are among a handful of big-name
firms that have quit the chamber in recent weeks because of the group's
opposition to Washington's plans to impose rules designed to cut down on carbon
dioxide emissions. Post Staff

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 23, 2009 Friday

DRILLING - AND, MAYBE, KILLING

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 266 words


THE ISSUE: The Paterson administration's move to allow gas drilling in the
Marcellus Shale.

Max Schulz knowingly disregards the potential for catastrophic damage to the
drinking water, created by a method that contaminates high volumes of water,
introduces toxic chemicals into underground geologic formations and brings in-
dustrialization to environmentally sensitive areas ("NYS: Drill, Baby, Drill!"
Max Schulz, PostOpinion, Oct. 20).

New York City has spent hundreds of millions of dollars protecting its watershed
and avoiding the massive expense of building and operating a new filtration
plant.

It is irresponsible to place our drinking water at risk by ignoring the sobering
experience of other states. Far from being an "extreme" position, a ban on gas
drilling is simply good public policy.

William Thompson, Jr.

Comptroller,

City of New York

Manhattan

Schulz fails to note that in Pennsylvania, gas drilling already has resulted in
chemical spills, drinking-water contamination and massive fish kills. These
accidents reflect just a fraction of the problems with "hydro- fracking."

Contrary to Shulz's bizarre claim, Riverkeeper supports the use of natural gas
as a domestically available "bridge" fuel to a renewable-energy future.

However, gas drilling must be strictly regulated so that we don't end up
poisoning our water supplies in pursuit of the economic and climate-change
benefits.

Drilling must be banned outright in the NYC watershed, a surface water supply
which provides drinking water to 9 million New Yorkers.

Alex Matthiessen

President, Riverkeeper

Tarrytown

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday

CLIMATEGATE' BIG STEPS DOWN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 96 words


LONDON - Britain's University of East Anglia says the director of its
prestigious Climatic Research Unit is stepping down pending a probe into
allegations that he overstated the case for manmade climate change.

The university says Phil Jones will relinquish his position until the completion
of an independent review into allegations that he helped alter the way
global-temperature data was presented.

The allegations were made after more than a decade of correspondence between
leading British and US scientists was posted to the Web following a security
breach last month.   AP

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

MCCARTNEY'S 'HOT' BEEF

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 92 words


Paul McCartney is urging people to "Get Back" to an old tradition and start
skipping meat once a week to fight global warming.

"I grew up as a kid not eating meat on Fridays," the vegetarian ex-Beatle told
reporters in Brussels, where he made his meatless pitch to a UN climate-change
panel head, days before the Copenhagen conference.

Now, with worries about global warming, there is an "even more crucial reason"
to skip meat, he said.

Livestock-raising is blamed for one-fifth of the world's greenhouse-gas
emissions.

Geoff Earle, Post Wires

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

SWEDISH POL PUTS HEAT ON OBAMA

BYLINE: GEOFF EARLE in Washington and CARL CAMPANILE in NY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 155 words


Global talks on climate change opened in Copenhagen yesterday with dire
predictions of storms and floods - and an unexpected slap at President Obama
from a top European official.

Anders Carlgren, Sweden's environment minister, said it would be "astonishing if
President Obama arrived here next week and just delivered what was in last
week's press release. I would rather expect the US president will deliver
something further."

Obama put out a proposal to lower US carbon emissions by 17 percent based on
2005 levels by the year 2020, but the European Union has gone farther.

A new CNN/Opinion Research poll shows those who called global warming a "proven
fact" dropping to 45 percent, from 54 percent in June 2008.

Meanwhile, industry leaders teed off on the Obama administration's decision
yesterday declaring pollution from fossil fuels a public health hazard that can
be strictly regulated without approval from Congress.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday

ADVICE FOR THE GOV - VETS OF '70S CRISIS DISCUSS HOW TO HANDLE THE CURRENT MESS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1151 words


How can Gov. Paterson and his staff lead New York out of its worst fiscal crisis
in at least a generation? The Post asked some key staffers from the last
financial meltdown, back in 1975-6, for advice.      - THE EDITORS

Peter C. Goldmark Jr.

HERE are some important ideas that belong in anyone's fiscal-crisis toolkit. But
these are only basic ingredients. Knowing when and how to use a specific tool
requires mastery of timing, contemporary facts and circumstances.

Bring together mayors, county executives and local officials - and make it clear
that we're all in this together.

Get everyone to understand that it's not them vs. the state. In New York's
complicated pattern of shared state-local funding and responsibility, the cuts
and tough measures have to be done in synch across the whole fabric of New
York's government family. State and local budgets should be looked at together.

Lead by example. The cuts in the state budget under the governor's control must
be real, visible and sustainable.

Dramatize the dangers. Be graphic in explaining the consequences of inaction and
the costs of delay.

Don't make the state's plan dependent on the feds. Washington delivers too late
and too little. The state plan must stand as much as possible on its own legs.

Be absolutely transparent and forthright with the numbers and estimates. The
public, the power players and the Legislature need to have faith in the
governor's office as an honest scorekeeper.

Start retrenchment early and carefully. Believe me, you won't err on the side of
cutting too much. And careless cuts that do not protect the most vulnerable will
not stand.

Peter C. Goldmark, Jr. was the state budget director during the "first" fiscal
crisis under Gov. Hugh Carey. He is now director of the Environmental Defense
Fund's Climate & Air Program.

C. Mark Lawton

THE current fiscal crisis has been a long time developing and will likely take
some time to correct. The state's economy is in the midst of a perfect storm
that can't be halted in its tracks - but we can chart a course to reach safe
harbor. The governor's job is to set that course and do no further harm.

A governor's powers are discrete but limited. He can't right the ship alone, but
will need the help of a serious, alert and willing crew - the Legislature, the
public and the media.

Lay out the options clearly and courageously. Take the message to the people and
the media aggressively and relentlessly: We must reduce our costs of government
and eliminate inefficient and noncritical programs and structural imbalances. We
must shift away from regressive taxes and meaningless tax credits. And we must
make the meaningful investments that will enable a secure and stable state
economy.

This will be a lengthy and painful process. The governor can't do it alone, but
getting it done will require bold and wise action by him. He must get the
Legislature to agree to cutbacks, restructuring and rescheduling services.

Meanwhile, here are first steps he can take, limited as they may be:

1) Freeze lawmakers' member items - and promise to use the power of the
line-item veto to zero out any future proposed member items.

2) Freeze all salary increases and pay-grade reclassifications for the term of
this fiscal crisis.

3) Seek a flexible work schedule for state workers that features a four-day work
week and an RIF (reduction-in-force).

4) Cease all conference and travel budgets.

5) Expand his current executive message of austerity by using the state Web page
and e-mail, as well as "town hall" meetings and the media, to explain the extent
of the crisis, the reasons we must take drastic action now and the need to exert
pressure on the Legislature to take action.

Much will then remain to address: consolidating governmental functions at the
state and local levels; limiting the burden of property taxes and the cost of
public pensions; eliminating costly mandates; and restructuring our governmental
entities at all levels so that they are affordable, efficient and
cost-effective.

C. Mark Lawton was Gov. Hugh Carey's final state budget director and worked on
New York City's '70s crisis.

Stephen Berger

THERE are some very real differences between the fiscal crisis faced by the
Carey administration almost four decades ago and what Gov. Paterson has to deal
with today, but a few lessons carry over.

The two major changes? The good news is: The quality of information available to
decision-makers today is light-years ahead of the always out-of-date manual
spreadsheets we had to work from then. The bad news: This crisis involves a more
fundamental, seismic shift in the underlying economy, and the long-term
consequences are more profound.

Now, the lessons from the past.

Understand your limits of predicting a story that continues to unfold. Things
will get worse; fixes will take longer than you want to admit publicly;
surprises will keep emerging and they will be downers during the early years.
Government will have to be flexible.

YOU need the public to believe you're telling the truth even if it doesn't like
what you're saying. Talk openly about the problems and don't get yourself locked
into predictions or pronouncements that you're constantly forced to change.
Don't get baited into simplistic answers. Tell the public all the bad news, and
underpromise.

Find a way to get the Legislature to buy into the new reality. Lawmakers are
used to living year-by-year, ignoring the dour predictions from the governor,
the good-government groups, editorial boards, etc., because it's "never" as bad
as promised. But this one is really bad. It's a five-year - maybe a decade-long
- structural change in the state's economy and revenue base.

The normal legislative fix of cosmetic cuts, some new taxes and fees and another
round of creative short-term borrowing can't get us through this cycle.
Unfortunately, the Legislature has no "muscle memory" of saying no and facing
these kinds of problems. The 1970s were a long time ago.

There are no "silver bullets" to solve our problems. That includes the feds. The
bailout/stimulus package will help - but unless we use it as a bridge to a very
different financial plan, when that money runs out we'll be in worse shape.

Make all the interest groups, providers, labor, health care, educators, etc.
come in under the tent. Anyone who claims that we should look for cost solutions
elsewhere should have to pay the first dollar.

Prioritize. Rank programs by quality and essentiality - and remember: All
programs are not equal, and you have no friends, only supplicants.

Be clear and authoritative about how you're making judgments.

And keep talking in plain English.

Stephen Berger is chairman of Odyssey Investment Partners, a private investment
firm. During the '70s crisis, he was responsible for designing the financial
plan that let New York City re-enter the credit markets.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leader: When state and city finances collapsed, Gov. Hugh Carey did
what NY needed.  [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

THE SPIRIT OF COPENHAGEN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 293 words


Has Robert Mugabe done the world a service - for once?

The Zimbabwean despot made his grand entrance yesterday at the global climate
summit in Copenhagen, despite a supposedly European Union-wide ban on his
travel.

We're glad he did. For there's no one better than Africa's leading crackpot
(sorry, Col. Khadafy) to point up the duplicity at the heart of the talks.

After all, Zimbabwe's recent tribulations - mass starvation and total economic
collapse, for instance - had nothing conceivably to do with global warming, and
everything to do with Mugabe's murderous appropriation of the country's natural
wealth for himself and his cronies.

And even though a tenuous power-sharing deal with the opposition has returned
some order to the country, it still has a long road back to anything approaching
its pre-Mugabe prosperity.

So, what's Mugabe doing in Copenhagen? (Aside from maybe stopping off in Zurich
to visit his numbered accounts?)

Set aside, for the moment, the possibility that he's intrigued by climate
researchers' now-famous data-manipulation techniques - and whether they might be
of use the next time he tries to steal an election.

The fact is, when the dubious science is stripped away, the Copenhagen talks are
aimed at the transfer of trillions of dollars from the West to the developing
world - under the guise of curbing carbon emissions.

Is there any doubt that an accomplished kleptocrat like Mugabe has seen his
opportunity - and means to take it?

He's already stolen everything of value in Zimbabwe - now, it seems, he's going
for the, umm, gold.

Mugabe's surely not alone in that regard - the conference is, after all, a UN
undertaking. (Oil for Food, anyone?)

It all adds up to one more reason to ditch the talks entirely.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 30, 2009 Friday

FULL-PRICE FOLLIES - BARNEYS' OWNERS WANT PREMIUM RETURN IN DOWN MARKET

BYLINE: JAMES COVERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 561 words


The owner of Barneys New York is struggling to face a painful markdown.

Istithmar - the investment arm of the Dubai government that ponied up nearly
$950 million to buy the luxury chain in September 2007 - has launched a
haphazard effort to sell the retailer that has left some investors scratching
their heads, sources told The Post.

Despite a collapse in luxury spending that sent holiday sales at Barneys
plunging as much as 40 percent, sources said the upscale chain's Persian
Gulf-based owners are looking to unload it for the same astronomical price they
paid before the global economy tanked.

"Maybe the desert heat has gotten to them," said one source familiar with
Istithmar's recent pitches to prospective buyers, who reckons Barneys is worth
$400 million at most. "They want to be made whole on their investment, but
they're not getting it now and they're not getting it tomorrow."

Istithmar didn't respond to requests for comment.

But like a desperate sales clerk praising an ill-fitting suit, Istithmar is
likewise making oddly sunny forecasts for the business as it looks to find a
buyer, sources said. Among them: This year's results will be flat with 2008,
propped up by cost-cutting and an improved business climate in the second half.

The penny-pinching is already having its consequences. Istithmar initially
flooded stores with cash, but recently called a hiring freeze at Barneys and has
begun to delay payments to vendors, sources said.

In turn, skittish lenders this month have begun to tighten credit for
merchandise shipments to Barneys. Charging higher fees to larger vendors,
lenders are beginning to bar some smaller suppliers from shipping altogether,
sources said.

That's bad news for Barneys, which relies heavily on small, edgy fashion labels.

"Barneys has always been well-known for culling the globe and finding what
nobody else had," said Susan Kellogg, CEO of contemporary fashion label Elie
Tahari. If smaller labels begin to drop out of stores, "the texture of fashion
is going to change - and not for the better."

All of this has been a shock to Istithmar, which had bought Barneys with plans
to open splashy stores in exotic venues like Shanghai, Macau, Dubai and Beijing.
While Istithmar had planned to fund the overseas expansion with cash generated
by its domestic stores, it's now admitting to investors that Barneys' cash flow
plunged 75 percent last year to a measly $20 million.

The Dubai government - which lately has earned the nickname "G'bye" for its
quick turn away from US investments - has recently floated Barneys proposals to
investors including CVC Capital, a giant European buyout firm whose holdings
include Samsonite luggage and Debenhams, a British department store.

Still, the pitches have remained obscure to most US industry insiders, with no
bankers evidently involved, and a "lukewarm" response to some expressions of
interest, sources said. The effort has held up the naming of a CEO for Barneys,
which has gone leaderless since last May.

While Istithmar has found a candidate it likes, "it will have to be somebody
that the buyer likes too" if Barneys is sold, according to a source familiar
with the matter.

---

Grains of sand

The idea that Istithmar is peddling Barneys for the pre-crisis price of $950M is
sparking talk that the Dubai owner might be suffering from desert fever.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Barneys design guru Simon Doonan. [Post photo composite] -Istithmar's
David Jackson.  -Barneys design guru Simon Doonan. [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 28, 2009 Monday

STRANGE BEDFELLOWS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 854 words


If you're a political junkie, this past week had it all: from the goings on at
the United Nations to the G-20 summit in Pittsburgh to the televised rantings of
an assortment of lunatic leaders. So, with all that in the air, let's see what
the best of the political thought magazines are up to.

The Nation puts the left's standard bearer on the cover, loudspeaker brandishing
Michael Moore. Progressives' favorite filmmaker tells us in his own words why
he's trying to take down the business world with his latest cinematic assault,
"Capitalism: A Love Story." Another article pounds Uncle Sam's cozy bailout of
Wall Street, while a separate piece says tax dollars should be spent to bail out
newspapers and public journalism, which is "what mature democracies have long
done." Reacting to the latest Acorn scandal, the magazine says this advocacy
organization for the poor never possessed powers that right wingers always
feared, because it was helpless to block swift moves by Congress to cut its
funding.

For an understanding of New Jersey that goes beyond "The Sopranos," turnpike
exits, and big-haired women, read National Review's latest issue. The magazine
deconstructs how the Garden State has lately failed to blossom, positing that
the state became a corrupt tax and spend state for four reasons - the structure
of local politics, influence of "unelected" state officials, fights over
education funding and urban decay. Elsewhere, the mag takes aim at the abundance
of political analogies in sports writing, claiming sportswriters inject politics
into their pieces to appear smart because they're embarrassed about being
sportswriters. The magazine also addresses the current state of political
discourse as it relates to the Republican party, saying that while incivility
can help highlight important issues and help its cause, it's better to slay
Democrats with kindness. A cover package on higher education doesn't shed any
new light but is still worth reading.

Stop! Put down that piece of sushi. In its environmental issue, The New Republic
sounds the alarm about the "end of fish," delivering a searing indictment of the
fishing industry. Still, it seems like a stretch to compare environmental
devastation to financial fraud: "Our oceans have been the victims of a giant
Ponzi scheme, waged with Bernie Madoff-like callousness by the world's
fisheries." If only there was just one villain in this story. The mag also takes
aim at your local power company, arguing the climate crisis can't be solved
until we revamp our rules governing the electrical grid.

This issue of the Weekly Standard is dedicated to the magazine editor's dad,
Irving Kristol, the political journalist and thinker who died earlier this
month. Included are son William's memorial remarks and two articles, including a
piece from Joseph Epstein. We agree Kristol needs to be memorialized, but we
think the tribute is a bit overdone given all that's going on in the political
scene. We would have liked more on recent efforts by the government to regulate
Wall Street pay, or the G-20 events in Pittsburgh.

The latest issue of the New Yorker hits upon a wide array of topics, starting
with a colorful piece on the lawless shantytowns of Rio de Janeiro. The story
focuses on a "gold-and-diamond-bedecked" drug lord, who acts as mayor of a
shantytown who's known for dismembering his enemies. We also like the article by
John Cassidy that tries to dissect the reasons behind our system of
bubble-and-burst economics.

New York focuses on a tired theme - money - but does it right by taking a step
back and looking for unique stories. First, it examines the increasingly bizarro
world of financial blogging, with a particular focus on the brand of
super-paranoid, self-involved bloggers, including a guy who talks about himself
in the third person. We also really like the piece exploring - with eye-opening
research from behavioral psychologists - whether people are born with a
predisposition to spend or save. It's somehow comforting to know we're just born
one way or another.

Time's cover story on the devastation that's hit Detroit - no, not the
long-suffering Lions; they won yesterday! - is best conveyed in photos that
illustrate how much of a ghost town this once-proud city has become. Time's
editor-in-chief tells us its journalists will cover "all aspects of the Motor
City" for the next year. The editors even bought a house there for just $99,000.
We realize they're probably gunning for a Pulitzer, but we have to wonder: Just
how much Detroit devastation can readers take?

Newsweek is the place to go for a peek at the Mideast. Its main story focuses on
the Taliban and the stories of six Afghan insurgents and how they view the
goings on in Afghanistan. It also interviews Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, questioning him about his Holocaust denials, and continuing its
campaign - following Media City's urging - to raise publicly the case of the
barbaric jailing since June of its correspondent, Maziar Bahari. Ahmadinejad
ends by saying, "I will do my effort. Please advise your colleagues not to break
the laws."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

CHINA VOWS 45% CUT IN POLLUTION

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 98 words


BEIJING - China announced plans yesterday to cut its carbon emissions by up to
45 percent as measured against its economic output - a commitment from the
world's largest polluter that builds momentum ahead of a widely anticipated
climate conference in Copenhagen.

The announcement comes a day after President Obama promised the United States
would lay out plans to substantially cut its emissions at next month's summit.

China announced earlier yesterday that Premier Wen Jiabao will take part in the
Copenhagen meeting to show the country's commitment to reducing greenhouse
emissions. AP

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 20, 2009 Tuesday

WHIZ KID BEHIND SPEECH

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 248 words


Barack Obama wrote today's historic inaugural address with a big assist from his
27-year-old phenom speechwriter, New Englander Jon Favreau.

Favreau got the speechwriting bug working on John Kerry's presidential campaign
in 2004.

He was hired by Obama in 2005 and has helped the new president craft all his
major speeches since then: the Iowa caucus victory speech and the New Hampshire
primary concession speech, the Democratic convention nomination speech and the
general-election victory speech.

Like Obama, he's a big fan of the phrase "Yes, we can."

Obama, an author and gifted speaker, knows the power of words. That makes
Favreau's job both harder and easier.

He knows what the boss wants to convey. That's the easy part.

But Obama also is a stickler for details, which means a lot of edits and
rewrites.

Favreau also had his 15 minutes of fame - not the good kind. He was shown in a
photo posted on Facebook last month grabbing the breast of a cutout figure of
Hillary Rodham Clinton during a party. He apologized to Clinton, and the
controversy appears behind him.

----

'Bettor' days

Odds on some of the terms President Obama may use in today's inaugural address.

God Bless America: 1.05-to-1

Climate change: 1.20-to-1

Arizona Cardinals: 2-to-1

Martin Luther King: 2.50-to-1

Pittsburgh Steelers: 3-to-1

Terrorist: 5-to-1

Bin Laden: 35-to-1

Sarah Palin: 100-to-1

Axis of Evil: 666-to-1

Banana: 1,000-to-1

Source: Betsson Sports Book, a Swedish online betting site

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 27, 2009 Tuesday

GORE MAY BE ON ICE

BYLINE: Rita Delfiner

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 145 words


Al Gore is set to testify before Congress on global warming tomorrow - but
Mother Nature may give him the cold shoulder.

The former vice president is to appear before the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee in the morning just as a snow, sleet or ice storm is forecast to hit
the nation's capital.

"I can't imagine the Democrats would want to showcase Mr. Gore and his new
findings on global warming as a winter storm rages outside," an unidentified
Republican lawmaker e-mailed the Drudge Report. "And if the ice really piles up,
it will not be safe to travel."

A spokesman for Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.), who chairs the committee, was not
immediately available to discuss contingency plans, the online report said.

Gore, a crusader on climate change, won a Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for
championing the issue, and won an Oscar for his documentary "An Inconvenient
Truth."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 18, 2009 Wednesday

GREENING OF NEW YORK - MAKING ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE A MUSEUM PIECE (LITERALLY)

BYLINE: Lois Weiss

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 342 words


PLANYC, the blueprint for bringing New York City from the present day into 2030
and making it a sustainable, environmentally friendly city, has been brought to
life by the Museum of the City of New York.

Working with the PlaNYC themes of land, water, transportation, air, energy and
climate change, the museum's exhibits detail problems and solutions through a
day in the life of the city. The 7 a.m. area, for instance, shows everyone
waking up and putting stress on water usage and plumbing. Rainwater collection
systems, sewage issues and rainfriendly pavement solutions are illustrated by
hands-on exhibits.

At 8 a.m., transportation becomes the focus as the exhibit looks at subway
occupancy, once one million more people inhabit the city. A winning bike-rack
prototype is on display, while old photographs and current views from
hazecam.net show how smog has been greatly reduced over the last 20 years.

The 11 a.m. exhibit area concentrates on work and buildings using examples like
the environmentally friendly One Bryant Park, solar panels like those at
Rockefeller Center, and the upcoming 121st Precinct that aims for a Leadership
in Energy Efficient Design (LEED) silver rating.

This area is of particular interest to those involved in real estate, since 75
percent of the city's energy is used by buildings. There are also displays
covering green roofs, energyefficient rehabs, new LEED-rated buildings,
furniture and lighting.

A 3 p.m. area focuses on parks, leisure and recycling, with a towering water
bottle exhibit pushing for them to be added to the bottlereturn bill. The 6 p.m.
area includes interactive hamburgers, coffee cups and other shopping choices.

While the city sleeps, a 2 a.m. display shows cities around the world, including
the reinvented former industrial city of Malmo, Sweden and the new Songdo
International Business District in South Korea.

*   "Growing and Greening New York: PlaNYC and the Future of the City" is at the
Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Ave. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org,
through April 22.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The recycling exhibit shows the need to keep plastic out of landfills.
(Lois Weiss)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday

PLANETARIUM STARS

BYLINE: Andy Soltis

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 63 words


Milla Jovovich (left) and Jessica Alba turn up the heat at the American Museum
of Natural History's annual ball, which despite being a black-tie affair was
dedicated to "going green."

A-listers attending the Museum Dance - held Thursday night in the Cullman Hall
of the Universe to celebrate the museum's "Climate Change" exhibit - were
treated to a menu of sustainable foods.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Milla Jovovich (left) and Jessica Alba. [John Pkl/Splash News]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday

O TO EUROS: BE MES AMIS AGAIN - COZIES UP AS ALLIES PLEDGE AFGHAN BOOST

BYLINE: CHARLES HURT, Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 431 words


WASHINGTON - President Obama barnstormed through Europe yesterday, trying to
boost the tattered relations between the Continent and the United States.

Calling on Americans and Europeans to be "honest with ourselves" and saying he
hoped to "renew our partnership," Obama told an audience in Strasbourg, France,
that something had "crept into our relationship."

"Instead of celebrating your dynamic union and seeking to partner with you to
meet common challenges, there have been times where America has shown arrogance
and been dismissive, even derisive," Obama said.

"In Europe, there is an anti-Americanism that is at once casual but can also be
insidious," he added.

"Instead of recognizing the good that America so often does in the world, there
have been times where Europeans choose to blame America for much of what's bad."
Flush with good will, Obama hopes to spend some of it in exchange for Europe
helping to tackle the growing threat of Afghanistan turning into a hotbed of
Islamic terrorist plots.

"It is important for Europe to understand that even though I'm now president and
George Bush is no longer president, al Qaeda is still a threat and that we
cannot pretend somehow that because Barack Hussein Obama got elected president,
suddenly everything is going to be OK," he said.

"This is a joint problem, and it requires a joint effort."

Appearing at separate events with Obama, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel both pledged additional support for the effort
in Afghanistan.

Sarkozy promised to send more police trainers and development assistance.

Merkel was less specific but vowed support.

Asked if Germany had lagged in the past, she replied: "We expect that all NATO
partners are going to contribute. They have thus far, but the progress in some
cases has been uneven."

Hours later, Obama flew on to his next diplomatic date in Baden-Baden, Germany.
Today, Obama hopes - and appears likely - to win fresh commitments of support
for Afghanistan during the 60th-anniversary NATO summit.

Continuing his charm offensive, Obama also noted his commitment to a dramatic,
long-term goal of "a world without nuclear weapons," an aggressive stance
against climate change and his decision to close down the US prison camp for
terrorists at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

In a symbolic gesture of appreciation, Sarkozy announced that France would
accept one of the roughly 240 prisoners currently at Gitmo.

"We can't condemn the United States to have this camp and then simply wash our
hands of the whole business when they close it down," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday

CONSUMER PRICES IN A COMPLETE AND HISTORIC FREEFALL

BYLINE: Terry Keenan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 465 words


IT wasn't long ago -  exactly this time last year -  that Americans weren't
protesting taxes at "tea parties," they were protesting sky-high fuel prices. Be
careful what you wish for.

This week, as investors celebrated some suspiciously strong earnings reports
from the nation's banks, a more-troubling headline was buried in the weekday
papers. The story is deflation -  or the overall collapse in the price of many
items in the past year.

If it's an unfamiliar concept, that's because US consumers haven't seen anything
like it since 1955 -  the last time prices fell on a year-over-year basis.

And falling they are.

Consumer prices in March posted their first annual decline in 54 years, and
while that may sound good on paper it's not. Falling prices cripple profits,
wages, employment and borrowers, who have taken on debt when assets were
escalating in price.

Need further proof?

Last week, American Airlines reported that its fares are down 4.5 percent from a
year ago. Other price declines are harder to measure, but the Fed is worried.

In its latest survey of nationwide business conditions, Bernanke & Co. reported
downward pressure on prices and wages across the country. What's more, many
price cuts are hard to measure, with more and more Americans negotiating for
services and getting special deals at retailers.

At Saks Fifth Avenue this week virtually the entire store was reduced by 25
percent for it's so-called "Friends and Family Sale," which basically means you
need a Visa card to attend.

The glass-is-half-full crowd downplays these trends, convinced that the
unparalleled jump in federal spending will quickly lead to a return of inflation
and lots of it.

But, not so fast says one economist, who has one of the best long-term
forecasting records on the Street. Lacy Hunt of Hoisington Investment Management
has been studying other deflationary periods and he argues that history shows
that "massive increases in government debt actually weaken the private economy,
thereby hindering rather than speeding up an economic recovery."

The implications of a persistent pullback in prices reach far and wide, raising
the risk that US shoppers will trade their love of instant gratification for a
more frugal future, opting to save now and buy later when prices are lower.

Yes, tea parties, pirates and the arrival of Bo, the First Family's dog have
controlled the news cycle of late. But if the smart money on Wall Street is
correct, the Chinese water torture that is deflation may end up being the
biggest challenge President Obama and his merry band of money men have to face
over the next few years.

TERRY KEENAN is anchor of Cashin' In, an investing program that appears on Fox
News Channel on Saturday mornings at 11:30. E-mail terry.keenan@foxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             May 6, 2009 Wednesday

HOW TIME HAS CHANGED - DINNER SPOTLIGHTS FIRST LADY; HEDGIES IN SHADOWS

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 855 words


TIME magazine last night turned on the wattage for its sixth annual 100 Most
Powerful People ceremony, which drew everyone from First Lady Michelle Obama and
talk-show queen Oprah Winfrey to two of the three founders of blogging
phenomenon Twitter.

It was high tech meets show biz meets politics.

On the outs this year: hedge-fund king Stevie Cohen, the head of SAC Capital who
was not invited, and Blackstone Group's Steve Schwarzman, who was stationed
farther back in the room at table No. 14. In his place: Twitter's co-founders
and Obama policy advisers.

At one point last year, Time Managing Editor Richard Stengel considered ranking
the Time 100 from most to least influential, or at least breaking out rankings
within categories.

That never happened. So the seating at last night's dinner at the Frederick P.
Rose Hall/Jazz at Lincoln Center, brought to you exclusively by Media Ink, is
the unofficial barometer of the heat factor.

To get an idea of the star power, Lou Reed, who wrote a profile on South African
artist William Kentridge, was seated in the bleachers, at table No. 28, while
Ann Coulter, who profiled Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin - coincidentally a no-show -
was seated farther back at table No. 12.

It's the sixth year that Time has published the list and the fifth time that
it's hosted a night to bring together as many of the honorees, and the notables
who contributed articles, as possible.

Of the 100 people named to the list, 52 were in the audience last night, a
strong rebound after the show seemed to lose a little vitality last year.

This year, there was little doubt where the action was. It was at table No. 6,
where Oprah and the first lady broke bread with Stengel, Time Inc.
Editor-in-Chief John Huey and A.R. Rahman, who composed the Oscar-winning score
to "Slumdog Millionaire."

Right next to them at table No. 7 was designer Stella McCartney, who made us
wonder if the chef whipped up a special dish for the confirmed vegetarian. She
shared the table with Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes

Talk-show host Jimmy Fallon, who after appearing at the National Magazine Awards
a few days earlier in the same venue was back performing and delivering
one-liners last night. He was stationed at table No. 9 with Time Inc. CEO Ann
Moore.

Diane Sawyer wasn't on the Top 100 list, but she made the dinner thanks to her
write-up on Oprah. Sawyer also was seated in the bleacher section at table No.
23 because she had to duck out early.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg, oddly, was tapped to do a write-up on the ladies of
"The View." But he skipped the festivities again this year.

The ladies themselves, however, were present and accounted for, with Sherri
Shepher at table No. 4, breaking bread with Tsunami survivor and Time
International Editor Michael Elliott. Elisabeth Hasselback shared a table with
Charlie Rose and Chris Matthews at table No. 1, which was clearly not the most
important table of the night even though her political cred seemed to get her a
better ranking than her co-hosts.

Joy Behar was at table No. 2, with Twitter co-founder Evan Williams and one of
the more controversial picks of the day, the founder of the online community
4chan.org - a 21-year-old who goes by the name "moot," even though his real name
is Christopher Poole.

The other Twitter man in attendance, co-founder Biz Stone, was at table No. 10
with Obama's 27-year-old speech writer Jon Favreau, Ralph Lauren's son David and
former first cousin Lauren Bush.

Another "View" co-host, Whoopi Goldberg was at table No. 3, with Daniel La
Londe, president and CEO of Louis Vuitton, Time's Kate Betts and Desiree Rogers,
the White House social secretary.

Hachette ax

Another longtime Hachette Filipacchi executive is exiting, fueling more rumors
that the company is being slimmed down for a potential sale.

Nicholas Matarazzo, the executive vice president and group publishing director
of the Men's Enthusiast Network, is out.

The company in a statement said his position will not be filled.

"It's time to close this chapter in my life," said Matarazzo in a statement. He
had been with the company for 28 years, through four ownership changes. "I'm
confident that the company is well prepared and posi tioned to manage its core
brands across media platforms and will emerge from this economic climate
stronger than before." The latest rumor is that the recent company-wide pay cuts
and the decision to put a number of titles on the block are part of a larger
plan that will ultimately seek a US publishing partner for Elle, its
international flagship, while other magazines are sold off.

A spokeswoman insisted that there are no plans to do that.

----

Time tables

The 5th Annual Time 100 gala was celebrated last night at Lincoln Center
honoring the most influential people from all over the globe.

Kate Hudson Jeffrey Bewkes Liv Tyler Josh Tyrangiel

Alan Mullally Ann Coulter Michael Duffy Nate Silver

Barbara Walters John Legend Jack Dorsey Paul Krugman

Michelle Obama Oprah Winfrey John Huey Richard Stengel

Biz Stone Jon Favreau Lorne Michaels Lauren Bush

Jimmy Fallon Ann Moore Joe Klein Dr. Mehmet Oz

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kate Hudson; Alan Mullally; Barbara Walters; Michelle Obama; Biz Stone;
Jimmy Fallon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

CITY IS FACING PAYOUT DOOM; $43B HOLE COULD DESTROY BUDGET

BYLINE: SUSAN EDELMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 511 words


The city faces potentially catastrophic costs of up to $43 billion from recent
pension investment losses, which threaten to drain the municipal budget and put
taxpayers on the hook for years.

Recent market losses have left massive gaps for city taxpayers to plug -  $15
billion from Fiscal Year 2008, and an estimated $28 billion from 2009 if the
pension funds dip 20 percent as feared, officials told The Post.

The city says it will have to fork over $7.9 billion in extra pension
contributions through 2016 -  but payments would go on another nine years to pay
off the staggering debt.

This year the city is paying $6.4 billion in pension contributions, plus $1.7
billion for retiree health benefits. Those costs are expected to rise to $12.3
billion in 2016.

"The growing costs to the city are a perfect example of why we need to reform an
outdated, unmanageable system now," said Marc LaVorgna, a spokesman for Mayor
Bloomberg.

A source familiar with the pension system put it more bluntly: "This is scary."

Taxes could "go through the roof," and city services such as police and fire
protection, schools and sanitation could suffer from forced cuts, experts said.

Taxpayers must make up the difference if city pension-fund investments earn less
than 8 percent a year.

City Comptroller Bill Thompson said Friday that "because of the nation's
sputtering fiscal climate," the pension funds had dropped another 6 percent in
value in the first three months of 2009 -  from $82.5 billion to $77.1 billion.

The funds had already plunged from $101.9 billion in the previous six months.
The fiscal year ends June 30.

Mayor Bloomberg is pushing for a bill -  over stiff opposition from labor unions
-  to cut future costs by requiring new cops, firefighters and other employees
to work 25 years instead of 20, and to wait until age 50 to start collecting
their pensions.

The Bloomberg administration has already claimed $200 million in savings from
the measure in its 2010 financial plan.

But an April 30 letter from City Actuary Robert North shows "zero" savings in
fiscal years 2010 and 2011 if the law passes this year, and only $43 million
starting in 2012.

North told The Post the city wants him to adopt a new methodology, called a
"forecast method," that would calculate costs of future as well as current
employees and let the city claim savings upfront from reduced costs in the
future. But it would require a change in the law.

WIPEOUT!

The city is facing pension costs of up to $43B:

*   $15 billion - funding gap the city has to plug because of a 5.4 percent
pension investment loss and failure to make 8 percent profit in fiscal year
2008.

*   $28 billion - funding gap the city will have to plug if the city suffers a
20 percent investment

loss in fiscal year 2009.

*   $200 million - savings City Hall is claiming in fiscal year 2010 from a
measure that hasn't passed yet.

*   $0 - savings that City Actuary Robert North says are possible in 2010 and
2011 under current funding methods.

Sources: City Financial Plan Summary, Fiscal Years 2009-2013

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAYOR BLOOMBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 13, 2009 Thursday

GREEN GROWER - ECO EXPERT EXPANDS FROM BX.

BYLINE: CYNTHIA R. FAGEN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 212 words


More "green days" have sprouted for environmentalist and native daughter Majora
Carter, founder of the nonprofit Sustainable South Bronx.

Since Carter won a Liberty Medal in the Lifetime Achievement category last year,
in acknowledgement of her efforts to create parks and green spaces in her
beloved borough, she has branched out as a green consultant.

"The work I pioneered in The Bronx really had national implications. My group
now works to unlock the potential of a place," she said.

Carter was hired by Brad Pitt's Make It Right Foundation, part of a
multimillion-dollar initiative to rebuild the hurricane-ravaged Lower Ninth Ward
in New Orleans. She and the staff of her new firm, the Majorca Carter Group, are
working on developing a green jobs training program there.

"We are responsible for making sure there are local jobs, and training people
there instead of bringing in people to do jobs related to the green
infrastructure that Make It Right is doing," she said.

Carter is also on the National Academies of Science panel that advises Congress
on climate change and has joined the board of Ceres, a national network of
investors, environmental organizations and other groups working with companies
and investors to address sustainability challenges.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAJORA CARTER Honored last year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday

NEWS TUNES

BYLINE: DON KAPLAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 406 words


THIS isn't your mama's C-Span.

The latest YouTube craze, "Auto-Tune the News" is a series of videos that start
out like a stodgy edition of "Meet the Press" - and then suddenly features
newsmakers such as Arianna Huffington, Al Sharpton and Pat Buchanan, busting out
into song. The topic might be political - but the delivery is musical.

It's all the work of a Brooklyn-based comedy family called the Gregory Brothers,
who also appear in the videos. They use a green-screen special effect so they
appear to be sitting in Congress - or in a television studio with their hapless
targets - and music software to turn nightly news subjects into nightingales.

Favorite sources of material include Nancy Pelosi and Newt Gingrich, while a top
star of their videos has turned out to be Vice President Joe Biden.

"This guy just gets so enthusiastic about everything," says Michael Gregory, 24,
the technical whiz who does most of the work electronically transforming pundits
into pop stars. "Half the speeches he's giving, he gets into this kind of
shouting mode and, in terms of how you're using your voice, you're basically
singing."

Since last winter, "Auto-Tune the News" has developed a following in the
millions - far surpassing many of the cable news channel programs on which the
raw video clips originally appeared.

In their videos, the Gregory Brothers are more or less apolitical; media
personalities along with politicians from both the right and left of the aisle
are fair game.

"I don't think I paid much attention to the news until the election last year,"
says Michael. "The 24-hour news cycle was having fun with every tiny news story,
and I thought it'd be funny to take something that takes itself so seriously and
turn it into circus."

Andrew Gregory is responsible for one of the group's catchiest tunes, a duet
with Couric that riffs on her using the term "thin ice" from a report she had
been reading about climate change.

"I love these guys," Couric tells The Post. "They are funny, cute and creative.
When I first heard that I was a part of their songs, I was flattered, and was
especially grateful to be named 'best unintentional singer.' I have since been
replaced by others, but I love their work."

"Sonically, Katie Couric's voice is ripe for Auto-Tunes," says Michael. "And she
has some writers who seem to be lobbing up this stuff to us. A lot of what she
says on the air already sounds like a nursery rhyme."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Evan, Michael (Andrew, on computer screen) and Sarah Gregory.
[N.Y.Post: Victoria Will]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday

O'S AM-BUSH HAS LEADERS CHEERING AT THE UN; RAPS DUBYA DAYS AND SAYS US CAN'T GO
IT ALONE

BYLINE: ANDY SOLTIS

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 670 words


President Obama let the world know yesterday that the days of maverick US action
are over -  and that he's no George W. Bush.

"I took office at a time when many around the world had come to view America
with skepticism and distrust," he said in his first speech to the UN General
Assembly.

"Part of this was due to opposition to specific policies and a belief that on
certain critical issues, America acted unilaterally, without regard for the
interest of others."

Obama drew some of his biggest applause from world leaders when he made
none-too-subtle jabs at the Bush policies on interrogation of terrorism suspects
and the Mideast peace process.

He said one of his first acts as president was to prohibit "without exception or
equivocation, the use of torture by the United States of America."

The president received an ovation when he said, "The United States does Israel
no favors when we fail to couple an unwavering commitment to its security with
an insistence that Israel respect the legitimate claims and rights of the
Palestinians."

He coupled that with a dig at UN apologists for Arab hard-liners:

"And nations within this body do the Palestinians no favors when they choose
vitriolic attacks against Israel over a constructive willingness to recognize
Israel's legitimacy, and its right to exist in peace and security."

In another shot at Bush policy, Obama said American would no longer be an
obstacle to action to combat global warming.

"The days when America dragged its feet on this issue are over," he said.

But the president also had warnings to two members of Bush's "axis of evil."

"If the governments of Iran and North Korea . . . are oblivious to the dangers
of escalating nuclear arms races in both East Asia and the Middle East, then
they must be held accountable," he said.

The president's basic message was that critics who denounced Bush's "cowboy
diplomacy" now have to pitch in.

"Those who used to chastise America for acting alone in the world cannot now
stand by and wait for America to solve the world's problems alone," Obama said.

He criticized the "almost reflexive anti-Americanism" that was rampant during
the Bush years.

His wide-ranging speech drew applause from Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy -  but
not Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, sitting five rows away from Obama.

Administration officials praised Obama's fresh approach to foreign policy after
the Bush years.

"The United States has dramatically changed the tone, the substance and the
practice of our diplomacy at the United Nations," said Susan Rice, Obama's UN
ambassador.

Obama also sought to shore up foreign support for the war in Afghanistan.

"We have set a clear and focused goal: to work with all members of this body to
disrupt, dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies," he said.

In other developments:

* Obama met with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and said they agreed that
serious additional sanctions must be considered if Iran does not budge in its
nuclear standoff.

* The president had his first meeting with Japan's new prime minister, Yukio
Hatoyama, who had pledged to review the large US military presence in Japan.

Aides said Hatoyama did not raise the main points of contention -  the
relocation of a US air station on Okinawa and Japan's decision to no longer
refuel ships involved in the war in Afghanistan.

* Obama received surprise support from Cuba's Fidel Castro, who praised his
"brave gesture" in the battle against climate change on Tuesday.

But Castro added, in a column published in Cuba's state-run media, that Obama
was part of a capitalist system that was "incompatible" with economic growth and
a clean environment.

* Obama turned down five requests to hold a bilateral meeting with Britain's
Gordon Brown at the United Nations or G20 summit in Pittsburgh today, The
Guardian reported. The tension stems from Brown's handling of the Scottish
decision to release the man convicted of the Lockerbie bombing.     With Post
Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAWN OF NEW DAY: President Obama yesterday tries to win over world
leaders put off by George W. Bush's policies as he addresses the UN General
Assembly. (UPI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 27, 2009 Sunday

PALIN: REGULATION IS THE CAUSE, NOT WAY OUT, OF WOES

BYLINE: Terry Keenan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 428 words


YOU gotta hand it to Sarah   Palin - the former half-term governor of the
forty-ninth state knows how to make hay in a bad economy.

Just over two months since her surprise resignation, Palin stepped out in public
this week and into her new career - as a high-priced speech-giver in foreign
lands.

But while word of her debut speech and six-figure payday was another gift to
late-night comedy writers - yes, her stilted syntax may play better to those
whose first language is Cantonese - Palin's choice of Hong Kong as the first
venue in a gearing-up to the 2012 campaign is a telling one.

So were the themes in her speech.

As with most things Palin, she weaves a simple explanation for why the economy
is in such a mess: The US just has too much regulation of its financial markets.
"We got into this mess because of government interference in the first place.
Lack of government wasn't the problem," she told her Hong Kong audience,
"government policies were the problem."

Sure, this is counter-intuitive. Sure, the biggest banking de-regulation in a
century (the repeal of Glass-Steagall) happened under President Clinton's watch,
but Palin, in her first turn at bat, is cleverly trying to tap into the one
thing that could re-ignite the Republican base.

That "thing" is a disquieting notion that Americans aren't getting the straight
story on the economy, health care or on Afghanistan.

As the pollsters have repeatedly reminded the White House this fall, Americans
aren't lining up in support of the President's health-care plan because they
don't understand it. (Fifty-nine percent thought Congressional health-care
proposals were confusing in the latest CBS-New York Times poll.)

A similar phenomenon is now developing with regard to his strategy in
Afghanistan. And when it comes to the economy, polls show most Americans aren't
crying out for more complex regulation, they're just looking for someone to
blame.

China also looms as a hot-button campaign issue. While President Obama was at
the UN focusing on climate change, Palin was in the gateway to China correctly
railing against the administration's lunge toward protectionism - and calling on
the Chinese to "improve their rule of law" when it comes to intellectual
property rights.

Yes, as Palin tested the political waters in her Jimmy Choo's and not her
waders, one listener called her "well-prepared," while another called her
"boring." These are two adjectives rarely if ever before attached to the former
Alaska governor, and a far cry from her rambling reputation of yore.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

PHILS LIKE HOME; LOOKING FOR GAME 3 REBOUND

BYLINE: BRIAN COSTELLO

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 95

LENGTH: 475 words


PHILADELPHIA -  Not many people would be smiling after trading in 93 degrees and
sunny for 46 degrees and raining, but the Phillies were happy to take the
climate change yesterday.

It meant they were back home. Back at Citizens Bank Park, where they have gone
8-1 over the last two postseasons. Tonight the Phillies try to get that home
mojo going again in Game 3 of the NLCS with the Dodgers.

"It feels like we haven't played at home forever," center fielder Shane
Victorino said.

The Phillies have not been home in 10 days after closing out their NLDS in
Colorado and opening the NLCS in Los Angeles. They come home after suffering a
heartbreaking 2-1 loss in Game 2 of this series.

Philadelphia wasted a stellar outing from Pedro Martinez by imploding in the
eighth inning with a costly error and poor relief pitching.

"There's nothing you can do," Victorino said. "It would be nice to come home
2-0, but unfortunately we didn't get it done. We beat ourselves with a few
mistakes we made."

The killer mistake came from second baseman Chase Utley, who threw the ball away
on a potential double play. J.A. Happ then walked in Russell Martin for the
winning run. Several sources told The Post Utley has a bone problem in his foot
that is preventing him from making the turn.

That eighth-inning collapse swung the momentum in this series 180 degrees.
Instead of going on the road down 2-0, the Dodgers arrived here confident they
can knock off the defending champs.

"It was very important to have that win and come in here," Dodgers manager Joe
Torre said. "It's an interesting phenomenon when you win a game in postseason
play, when you realize you play 162 games during the course of the year and one
win makes you feel good, but not the way it does in postseason, because momentum
can switch so quickly."

The Phillies hope to regain that momentum tonight with Cliff Lee on the mound.
Lee was awesome against the Rockies, giving up two earned runs in two starts.
Now the left-hander takes on a Dodgers lineup capable of erupting.

"I was fortunate enough to come to the big leagues in 1961 and was able to catch
a guy like Warren Spahn," Torre said. "He taught me a long time ago about
hitting is timing, and the pitcher's job is to upset that timing. I think that
Cliff Lee is that type of guy, and yet he has enough giddy-up on his fastball
that he's more than just that."

Torre sends Hiroki Kuroda to the mound to oppose Lee. Kuroda has not pitched
since Sept. 28 because of a neck injury. Torre might be hoping Kuroda can
duplicate his success last year, when he won Game 3 of the NLCS over the
Phillies.

In that game, Kuroda had a confrontation with Victorino after throwing over his
head.

"We got action," Victorino said. "It's going to be fun. There's some thoughts in
the back of my head, obviously, but he's a great pitcher."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SWING GAME: Cliff Lee, who gave up just two earned runs in two NLDS
starts against the Rockies, looks to lead the Phillies to victory in Game 3 of
the NLCS tonight in Philadelphia. (UPI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

SURGE TO MERGE ; CLIMATE RIGHT FOR EX-ADVERSARIES TO COMBINE

BYLINE: JOSH KOSMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 485 words


Companies that have been warring for years might soon get in the holiday spirit
of togetherness.

Among the mergers that industry insiders believe could come down the pipeline
are a Time Warner-Viacom tie-up, a Discovery-Scripps marriage and a
Verizon-Vodafone deal.

The timing is right for mergers. Public companies have been sidelined for five
years: first because buyout firms could outbid them, and then because they had
to deal with falling earnings.

But now, the recession has leveled off, and private equity companies, unable to
arrange aggressive loans to finance deals, are hamstrung.

At the same time, the US economy is expected to grow very slowly, making merging
and boosting earnings through cost cuts one of the only ways to raise share
prices, investment bankers said.

"Private equity firms will come back eventually, and if public companies don't
take advantage of this window of opportunity now, they are crazy," said a source
who advises media companies.

He believed Time Warner could reach a deal with 86-year-old Viacom Chairman
Sumner Redstone to buy his business, as stand-alone media distributors are going
to find it harder to compete without content, especially after Comcast acquires
NBC.

Content provider Discovery and distributor Scripps, which three years ago could
have been private equity targets, also may merge, he said.

The track record, so far, is encouraging.

Stanley Works, the hand tools maker, and Black & Decker, maker of power tools,
agreed to merge earlier this month in a $8.4 billion stock deal. Since that deal
was announced, the shares of both companies have risen significantly.

People believed for years that the two should combine, a banker who sells
consumer companies said. Similar logical mergers should now occur with other
companies that make complementary products, like perhaps Heinz and Campbell, he
said.

Still, a source said the family that controls Campbell rejected a Heinz overture
about a year ago, and said he would be surprised if they were now prepared,
despite the logic, to reverse course.

There is a 50-50 chance that in the next year, New York behemoth Verizon will
work out a new arrangement with Vodafone that might include buying the British
phone maker's 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless, a telecom banker said.

For now, Verizon and Vodafone are stuck. Verizon Wireless throws off $1 billion
in surplus cash per month, yet by the nature of the partnership agreement,
neither Verizon nor Vodafone is permitted to use that money for anything other
than Verizon Wireless.

"Both owners want access to that money to fix their crippled land lines," the
source said.

Verizon Wireless, he said, might need to pay $60 billion to $80 billion for
Vodafone's stake.

Besides, that wireless cash flow may not last as the wireless industry, for the
first time, might lose revenue next year due to declining prices and reduced
usage.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUTURE GAZING: Jeff Bewkes may just have Sumner Redstone's Viacom on
his hands, if the merger gods shine on the Time Warner boss. (Post photo
composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 30, 2009 Monday

AFGHAN SURGE WILL NEED WAR TAX: POLS

BYLINE: CHARLES HURT

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words


WASHINGTON - On the eve of President Obama's announcement of plans for a troop
build-up in Afghanistan, lawmakers in both parties warned that the White House
is taking on too much and spending way too much.

"The problem is that you can have the best policy in the world, but if you don't
have the tools to implement it, it isn't worth a beanbag," said Rep. Dave Obey
(D-Wis.), chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, who recently
recommended a "war tax" if the United States is going to continue military
operations.

Adding troops without better cooperation from nations such as Pakistan and
without proper funding is "a fool's errand," Obey said on CNN yesterday.

Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) seemed open to the idea of a war tax.

"I think we will have to pay for it," he said. "We may wish to discuss higher
taxes to pay for it."

But Lugar, the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
added that in any event, it would not be wise to raise taxes to pay for more war
while imposing enormous new taxes to pay for the Democrats' government-run
health-insurance plan.

"The war is terribly important. Jobs and our economy are terribly important. So
this may be an audacious suggestion," Richard Lugar said.

"But I would suggest we put aside the health-care debate until next year, the
same way we put cap and trade and climate change, and talk now about the
essentials, the war and money."

Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI) quickly responded that Lugar was not "making sense."

"The health-care debate is essential to our economic future," Reed said. "To
stop now would be stopping on the edge of significant reform."

Obama will deliver a speech tomorrow night at West Point, laying out his
strategy for sending more than 30,000 additional troops to fight and to train
others in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 124 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 7, 2009 Monday

TIGER TEED UP

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 798 words


While the world's greatest golfer was caught in the rough, we were scarfing down
every tidbit we could find about Tiger Woods' car crash, his "transgressions"
and the growing legion of women who claim to be part of Tiger's harem.

All this time we thought Woods was obsessed only with his game. But according to
an interview in US Weekly with reported mistress Jaimee Grubbs, he's also all
about the Benjamins. Despite being the world's first billionaire golfer, Tiger
allegedly told his rumored paramour that "his life is overwhelming [and] he
needed the endorsements and busy schedule because he wasn't as financially
stable as he wanted to be." That explains all those stories about Tiger skimping
on tips. Elsewhere, US Weekly offers a breakdown of Tiger's puzzling crash into
a fire hydrant outside his Florida mansion.

Talk about bad timing! "Ten Tips Obama Can Take From Tiger" declares Golf
Digestfrom its January cover, featuring Tiger posing as the president's caddy.
Known for its fawning Tiger coverage, the magazine completed its cover in
mid-November, well before the scandal broke. But the irony attached to the issue
and the laughs you can get by reading the Tiger article against the backdrop of
the scandal might be reasons enough to pick up this issue. Though the recession
has taken its toll on golfing, fans may chuckle when they read Joe Queenan's
article about the golfer and the president. Case in point: "Tiger never does
anything that would make him look ridiculous." Despite that embarrassment, Golf
Digest scored a rare 5 percent jump in ads for bleak January.

Star's coverage of Woods is merely a summarization of the scandalous events of
the last week. Its cover instead focuses on a nebulous story about the gaps
forming between super-couple Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, centering on a
violent fight that sounds more like a scene out of "Mr. & Mrs. Smith," complete
with Jolie throwing a chair across the room and narrowly missing her poor,
defenseless mate.

People magazine's coverage breaks no new ground on what's turning out to be the
scandal of the year. The Woods fiasco copped the requisite spot on the
publication's cover but deets about the star's blond ambitions are few and far
between. Elsewhere, Meredith Baxter's coming-out-of-the-closet revelation
appearing in People takes a backseat to Tiger. Still, the magazine does serve up
info on the former "Family Ties" mom's admission that at 62, and after three
failed heterosexual marriages, she's determined she's a lesbian.

New York magazine scores at least one hit among multiple covers for its package
of why the current decade was the pits, entitled: "The World Did Not End - But
Pretty Much Everything Else Did." Its stark version for subscriber copies was
arguably the best of several designs that for the most part were the pits, like
the decade. Regardless, inside stories on the "oh-oh" decade are splendid.

The New Yorker offers a dose of relief from the health-care reform headache,
with an analysis saying the plan's lack of focus is probably a good thing. The
cover article by Atul Gawande, a physician and Harvard Medical School professor,
argues that holding down spiraling costs isn't the issue, and never could be
controlled by legislation. He proposes modeling reforms on a solution used a
century ago to tame runaway agriculture costs: trial-and-error pilot projects,
ever changing, with producers in the loop. "You can have transformation without
a master plan, without knowing all the answers up front," he writes. The
magazine also delves into why Somalia is the world's most failed state, and
predicts Roman Polansky will be coming to California in what is sure to be the
global media circus of 2010: the proceedings surrounding his 33-year-old sex
suit.

Time prefers to take a serious look at the world, using its cover to highlight
President Obama's trip to West Point to announce his plans for the troop surge
in Afghanistan. The Tiger scandal was buried in the back of the issue in a
wrap-up on how being a celebrity isn't all it's cracked up to be. Time also
ramps up the negative - explaining how health-care reform is flopping, and why
some climate-change solutions aren't likely to work, either.

Newsweek uses the Afghan troop surge - the White House's first head-on collision
between realism and idealism - to spin its cover package on "The Post-Imperial
President," a tidy effort to describe his first year in office. On the economic
front, the magazine says the next sovereign debt crisis like Dubai's could
easily erupt among Europe's peripheral economies such as Bulgaria, Hungary and
the Baltic states.

---

On the Newsstand

US Weekly: 1 1/2 stars

Golf Digest: 1 1/2

Star: 1 1/2

People: 1 1/2

The New Yorker: 3

New York: 2 1/2

Time: 2 1/2

newsweek: 2

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
