
                               1 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 11, 1998, Tuesday

SCIENTISTS CAN'T BELIEVE THEIR HIGHS IN HOTTEST MONTH EVER

BYLINE: KATE PERROTTA

SECTION: News; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 563 words


July burned its way into the record books as the hottest month in world history.

The record-breaking average global temperature hit 61.7 degrees Fahrenheit for
July - fueled by the Pacific storms of El Nino and the scorched-earth dog days
in Dallas.

That was nearly half a degree higher than the previous record month - July of
last year.

And while half a degree may not sound like a lot, experts say it can wreak havoc
with the world's ecosystems - and economy.

"Our most serious concern is that small shifts in average temperatures can
result in large shifts in other things, like precipitation," said Rob Quayle,
chief of the government's Global Climate Lab, which collected the data.

"What we see in places like Dallas, Houston and Fort Worth are things that would
become more common if the temperatures shifted slightly to the warmer side, as
climate models predict they would."

Texas has been one of the U.S. states hit hardest by the heat wave this year,
with temperatures hovering well above 100 for 29 straight days.

More than 120 people have died from heat-related causes there.

The temperatures are in keeping with a dangerous trend begun in January. Since
then, each month has topped the heat record for that month.

This has led scientists to predict that 1998 will be the hottest year in
history.

This will come as no surprise to U.S. residents, where at least 10 cities have
broken heat records and two have tied previous ones already this summer.

Vice President Al Gore, armed with the statistics, warned that the higher
temperatures will only turn up the heat globally with droughts and flooding -
unless greenhouse-gas emissions are curbed.

He is a leading proponent of the Kyoto pact, signed last December in Japan by
industrial countries vowing to cut such gas emissions.

The goal is an average 5 percent reduction from 1990 levels within 13 years. The
Senate still must ratify the treaty for it to become binding on the United
States.

Foes say the pact would hurt the economy.

But Gore argued: "If we don't do something about it, then what we've been
experiencing this summer ... is going to get to be a lot more common, and it
will get worse."

Many scientists agree that the emissions are part of the problem. But is the
news of the warming trend that surprising?

No at all, said Quayle, whose group is under the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.

"The climate has been undergoing more or less steady warming over the globe
since the late '70s," he said.

El Nino's turbulent nature hasn't helped, Quayle added.

"El Nino transferred a lot of heat," he said.

Still, others were surprised at the record-setting month.

The New York area "had no record temps, no precipitation records," said National
Weather Service meteorologist Bob Stalker.

"I'm surprised. I know it was warm in a lot of spots. It was terribly oppressive
in Dallas last month."

But Stalker reminded New Yorkers that the hottest day in July amounted to a mere
93 degrees.

He said August will be no standout either, with temperatures expected to be "no
more, no less" than normal.

That means an average daily high in the mid-80s.

"I guess Al Gore didn't check our records here," chuckled Stalker.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Every month this year has topped the record, leading scientists to
predict that 1998 will be the hottest year ever.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               2 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 14, 1998, Sunday

SPORT UTILITIES: VEHICLES FOR ; THE ACTIVE LIFESTYLE

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 066

LENGTH: 2415 words


Oldsmobile's luxury Bravada has a new instrument panel, new climate control
system and other improvements to keep pace in the market.  8SPORT UTESAN active
summer lifestyle demands a rugged vehicle with plenty of room for passengers and
cargo. Sport utility vehicles fill those needs and more.

This year's crop of go anywhere, do anything vehicles range in size from
mini-compacts to a few of the biggest passenger vehicles on the road. There's a
sport ute to meet everyone's budget and needs.

Acura's SLX gets a new front end treatment this year and a new powertrain. It
also blends all the amenities one expects in a luxury vehicle with off-road
capability. The new powerplant is a 3.5-liter, 215-horsepower, DOHC V6, teamed
with a four-speed automatic transmission. It has a shift-on the-fly, full-time,
four-wheel drive system and is available in one body style: a four-door.
Standard equipment includes an anti-lock braking system, air conditioning, a
stereo system and cruise control. There's room for five in the SLX and it can
tow up to 5,000 pounds.

Chevrolet has four options to tickle a sport ute fan's fancy ranging from the
mini-compact Tracker to the very big Suburban.

The Tracker now is badged a Chevrolet and comes in a two-door convertible and a
four-door hardtop in either two- or four-wheel drive. Power comes from a
1.6-liter, SOHC, 95-horsepower, four-cylinder engine paired to either a five-
speed manual or three or four-speed automatic transmission. Chevy's Blazer comes
in two and four-door versions and gets a passenger side air bag. Three trim
levels are available: base, LS and LT on four-door models. Either can be had
with two or four-wheel drive. Power comes from a 4.3-liter, 190-horsepower V6
teamed with a four-speed automaic gearbox. With room for between five and six
depending on the body style, the Blazer can tow a maximum of 5,000 pounds.

The full-size Tahoe continues with minimal changes. It is available in two and
four-door versions with either two or four-wheel drive. Powering the Tahoe is a
5.7-liter, 255-horsepower paired with a four-speed automatic transmission. A
6.5-liter, 180-horsepower Turbo Diesel V8 is available as an option. The Tahoe
comes in either two or four-door body styles and can seat between five and six.
It can tow to a maximum of 7,000 pounds and is available in either two or
four-wheel drive.

Chevrolet's big Suburban is a sport utility for those who really need space. It
can seat up to nine passengers and can tow up to 10,000 pounds. There are a
variety of Suburban powerplants ranging from a 5.7-liter, V8 to a 7.4-liter, big
block V8 that produces 290 horsepower. Dodge's entry in the compact sport
utility market is the Durango. This new sport utility is a first for Dodge and
encompasses the best features of a compact sport utility with features of a full
size vehicle. Three powerplants will be available for the Durango: a 3.9-liter,
225-horsepower Magnum V6, a 5.2-liter, 230-horsepower, Magnum V8 and the most
powerful engine in the class, a 5.9-liter, 250-horsepower Magnum V8. It is only
available as a four-door with four-wheel drive and can tow 7,000 pounds.

Ford's full-size Expedition combines rugged and refined styling with an
adventurous "go anywhere, do anything" capability. It seats up to nine people
and fits into a standard size garage. The Expedition is available in XLT or
Eddie Bauer series with a choice of two-wheel or automatic four-wheel drive. Two
V8 powerplants are available: a 4.6-liter, 215-horsepower engine and a
5.4-liter, 230 horsepower option. It is available in either two or four-wheel
drive and can tow up to 8,000 pounds.

GMC is another builder that has a full line of sport utes ranging from the
compact to the very large. The Jimmy compact sport utility sets the pace with
its new front end and 195-horsepower, 4.3-liter, V6. It can be had with either
two or four doors and in two or four-wheel drive.

Its close cousin, the Envoy, is the direction GMC wants to head in. This is
loaded with all the features expected in a luxury vehicle.

Moving up to the full size models, GMC has the Yukon and its luxury sibling the
Donali. The powerplant is a 5.7-liter, 255-horserpower, V8 and the four-door
Yukon can be had with four-wheel drive. It can tow up to 7,000 pounds for the
rear-wheel drive model. On the top of the heap is the GMC Suburban. It's
available in two or four-wheel drive in the 1500 Series and the 2500 Series
models. Three engines are available ranging from a 190 horsepower turbo diesel
to a 7.4-liter, 290 horsepower, V8. The 1500 Series Suburbans can tow up to
6,500 pounds while the 2,500 Series can pull up to 10,000 pounds.

Honda's mini-sport utility, the CR-V, combines the affordability and fuel-
efficiency of the mini-SUV, the interior roominess and cargo area of the compact
SUV category and the performance and handling of a sedan. The CR-V is powered by
a 2.0-liter, 16-valve, double overhead cam, four-cylinder engine that delivers
126-horsepower.

Passport complements the new CR-V in the compact SUV category. The Passport is
available with either two-wheel or four-wheel drive. The Passport is equipped
with a 3.2-liter, 190-horsepower, V6 engine. The Passport is available in LX and
EX trim levels. Two-wheel drive is standard, while a shift on the fly four-wheel
drive system is available for both trim levels. Infiniti's QX4 is fully equipped
with leather interior, Bose audio system, wood-tone trim, and other luxury
appointments. The QX4 is powered by a 3.3-liter, single overhead cam, 12-valve,
V6 engine that produces 168 horsepower paired with a four-speed automatic
transmission. The QX4 features an All-Mode 4WD system and is fully equipped.

Isuzu has its strong sport utility duo the Rodeo and Trooper. The Rodeo is
completely redesigned for 1998. The Rodeo is available in two-wheel and
four-wheel drive models. Isuzu's 3.2-liter, single overhead cam, 205 horsepower,
V6, engine powers all four-wheel drive and most two-wheel drive models. The base
engine is a new 2.2-liter, 129 horsepower four-cylinder. The four-door can tow
4,500 pounds. The Trooper gets a new engine. A 3.5-liter, 215-horsepower, DOHC,
V6, now powers this sport ute. All Troopers include amenities such as air
conditioning, power windows and dual air bags. Four-wheel drive is the only way
to go in a Trooper and it can tow up to 5,000 pounds.

Jeep's Wrangler and Cherokee join the top-of-the-line Grand Cherokee in the Jeep
stable. Three models are in the Wrangler line - SE, Sport and Sahara. Wrangler
SE is equipped with a standard 2.5-liter four cylinder engine that develops 120
horsepower. Sport and Sahara models are equipped with a 4.0-liter in line six-
cylinder engine that produces 181 horsepower. Two transmissions also continue: a
five-speed manual and a three-speed automatic is available. Part-time four-wheel
drive is standard.

Last year, Jeep's Cherokee received its first exterior and interior freshening
since its introduction in 1984. The Cherokee retains its classic exterior lines,
but adds a more rounded contemporary appearance at the front and rear with a new
grille, fascias, bodyside moldings, and wheels.

The Cherokee lineup includes the SE, Sport and Classic and Limited, that are
available in either two-or four-door body styles. Powering the Cherokee is a
2.5-liter, four-cylinder engine that produces 125 horsepower or a 4.0-liter,
in-line, six-cylinder engine that develops 190 horsepower.

Two transfer cases are offered in four-wheel drive Cherokees: Command Trac, the
standard part-time four-wheel drive system and Selec Trac, the available
full-time four-wheel drive system. The flagship of the line is the Grand
Cherokee which combines the 4X4 capabilities of Jeep vehicles with the comfort,
technology and safety usually associated with luxury sedans.

The Grand Cherokee model line includes the Laredo, Tsi, Limited and 5.9 Limited.
The 5.9 Limited packs a big 245 horsepower V8 Grand Cherokee is available with a
4.0-liter, 185 horsepower, in-line six-cylinder engine or an optional 5.2-liter,
220-horsepower V8. The Grand Cherokee is available with Selec-Trac, full time
4WD, Quadra-Trac, all-time 4WD or 2WD.

Kia's Sportage has a new grille and other exterior and interior improvements
this year. This mini, four-door, sport ute comes in base or EX trim and is
powered by a 2.0-liter, 130-horsepower, DOHC, four-cylinder engine that's
coupled to a five-speed manual transmission. A four-speed automatic is
available. Buyers can also select between two-and-four-wheel drive.

Land Rover has the Discovery and the Range Rover to compete in the sport utility
market place. The Discovery is a five-passenger SUV available in two models: LE
and LSE. Both get a 4.0-liter, 182-horsepower V8 engine mated to a four-speed
automatic transmission.

The Range Rover continues as the top-of-the-line sport utility vehicle from Land
Rover. Two models are available: the 4.0 SE and the 4.6 HSE. Both models retain
traditional Range Rover styling cues with superior airflow and noise management.

The Range Rover SE is powered by a 190-horsepower, alloy block and head, V8
engine coupled with a four-speed automatic transmission. Powering the 4.6 HSE is
a 4.6-liter, 225-horsepower, aluminum V8 teamed with the four-speed automatic.
There's a new Lexus 470 on the road replacing the 450. This is a Lexus 4X4 with
a difference in that it sports a 4.7-liter, V8 that pumps out 230 horsepower and
is paired with a four-speed automatic gearbox. This luxury SUV gives passengers
a high seating position for a commanding view in all directions with standard
three-row seating for seven .

Automatic climate control, power driver and passenger seats, power door locks,
windows and outside mirrors are all standard.

On the smaller side is the Lexus RX300. This compact sport utiliuty is powered
by a 3.0-liter, 200 horsepower V6. With full time all-wheel drive, the RX300 is
equipped with luxury features typical of Lexus including leather interior.
Maximum towing is 3,500 pounds.

Lincoln's sport ute is the big, bold Navigator. It is a luxury SUV with style
that befits Lincoln. Leather and wood trim abound. Power comes from a 5.4-liter,
230-horsepower V8 paid with a four-speed automatic gearbox. With a towing rate
of 8,000 pounds, this sport ute can be had in either two-wheel drive of
four-wheel drive.

Mercedes-Benz startled the world with its M Class SUV, the company's first SUV.
The ML320 packs a 3.2-liter, 215-horsepower V6 under the hood and a V8 is
expected. The transmission is a five speed automatic for this all-wheel drive
vehicle.

Naturally, the ML320 is equipped as a Mercedes should be with all the amenities
everyone expects from Mercedes-Benz. Mercury's sport utility, the Mountaineer,
hit the road last year. Comfort, practicality, a richly appointed interior and
stylish exterior characterize the Mountaineer. There's a new 4.0-liter, SOHC,
205-horsepower V6 as the standard powerplant This four-door model is available
in two-wheel drive or optional all-wheel drive. There's an optional 5.0-liter,
211-horsepower V8 and four-speed automatic transmission is also available.

The Mitsubishi Montero and Montero Sport have a new look this year with new
bumpers and fenders. The Sport is a tad smaller than the regular Montero. The
Sport comes in 2WD ES trim level and two-or four-wheel drive LS and XLS trim
levels. The ES gets a 132-horsepowewr, 2,4-liter, four-cylinder engine while the
LS and XLS is equipped with a 3.0-liter, 173-horsepower V6. The Montero comes in
one trim level and packs 3.5-liter, 200-horsepower V6. While the Sport comes
with a standard five-speed manual gearbox and optional four-speed automatic, the
Montero is strictly automatic.

Nissan's entry in the market is the Pathfinder. Redesigned two years ago, the
Pathfinder comes in three trim levels: XE, SE and top-of-the-line LE. With the
XE and LE there's a choice between two-wheel or four-wheel drive. The SE comes
only in four-wheel drive. The Pathfinder's engine is a 168-horsepower,
3.3-liter, SOHC, V6 paired with either a five-speed manual or a four-speed
automatic transmission.

Oldsmobile's luxury Bravada has a new instrument panel, new climate control
system and other improvements to keep pace in the market. The Bravada is powered
by a 4.3-liter V6 rated at 190 horsepower and paired with a four -speed
automatic transmission. Subaru joined the sport utility club with its new
generation 1998 Forester.

The Subaru Forester is based off a car platform and is classified by the EPA as
a passenger car. The newest Subaru has a wheelbase between the Impreza (99.2
inches) and the Legacy (103.5 inches). It features Subaru's all-wheel drive
system, a 2.5-liter, 165-horsepower, four-cylinder boxer engine and four-wheel
independent suspension There is a choice between a four-speed automatic or a
five-speed manual transmission and the Forester is available in three trim
levels: base, L or S.

Suzuki has two mini-sport utes for this year, the Sidekick and the two-seater
X-90. The Sidekick comes in a soft-top two door version and a hardtop four-door.
Engines are a 1.6-liter, 95-horsepower, SOHC four-cylinder and a 120-horsepower,
1.8-liter, DOHC, four-cylinder found on the four-door Sport model. Both body
styles are available in two- or four-wheel drive.

The X-90 continues with few changes for 1998. In 2WD or 4WD, the X-90 is powered
by a 1.6-liter, 95-horsepower, SOHC, four-cylinder engine teamed with a
five-speed manual gearbox. A four-speed automatic is available

Toyota's new Land Cruiser gets a 4.7-liter, 230-horsepower , DOHC, V8 to go with
its redesign. The big Land Cruiser only comes in four-wheel drive. With many
power features, including windows and seats as well as climate control, the Land
Cruiser hit the luxury end of the full-size SUV market with rugged style.

In the mini-SUV segment, Toyota has the RAV-4. This year, the RAV-4 gets a new
look with changes in the grille and front fascia. The RAV-4 comes in either
two-or four-door body styles and in front or four-wheel drive. Power comes from
a 2.0-liter, 127-horsepower, DOHC, four-cylinder engine paired to a five-speed
manual or four-speed automatic transmission. Toyota's 4Runner has only minor
revisions for this year. Power continues to come from a 2.7-liter,
150-horsepower, DOHC four cylinder engine teamed with a standard five-speed
manual transmission.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               3 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 17, 1998, Sunday

WOULD YOU ANSWER A FEW QUESTIONS, MR. GORE?

BYLINE: GEORGE F. WILL

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 067

LENGTH: 788 words


EVERY serving vice president since Alben Barkley in 1952 who has wanted his
party's presidential nomination has gotten it. Al Gore wants his party's, so it
is not too soon to be depressed. And inquisitive. Herewith some questions for
him.

You say that abortions should be "safe, legal and rare." Why do you care if they
are rare? In Roe v. Wade, which you adore, the Supreme Court said a fetus is,
unlike crab grass, only "potential" life. That makes it easy for you to defend
even partial-birth abortions. No one says appendectomies should be rare. Unless
a fetus has a moral standing superior to an appendix - if it does, how superior?
Why is it important for abortions to be rare?

In a 1984 letter to a constituent you expressed your "deep personal conviction
that abortion is wrong" and said you voted to amend the Civil Rights Act to
define the protection of a "person" to "include unborn children from the moment
of conception." Could you explain the, well, evolution of your thinking from
that position to support for partial-birth abortion?

Last year you said, "People in Grand Forks, N.D., who had to move out of their
homes because of the flooding don't think global climate change is such an
abstraction anymore." What is the scientific basis for the assertion that the
flooding was caused by "global climate change"?

In a Dec. 22, 1997, news conference about homelessness you said, "Speaking from
my own religious tradition in this Christmas season, 2,000 years ago a homeless
woman gave birth to a homeless child in a manger because the inn was full."
Homeless? Can you document for biblical scholars this astonishing news that
Joseph provided so poorly for his family?

You say, "It makes little sense for each of us to burn up all the energy
necessary to travel with several thousand pounds of metal wherever we go." Will
you say that to a United Auto Workers convention? What policies would a Gore
administration adopt to implement your conviction that automobiles make "little
sense"?

You say "race is a pervasive if often unacknowledged part of every issue,
controversy, indeed conversation in the United States of America." Really? How
does that work in conversations about Jane Austen or Greg Maddux or the possible
collision of Earth with an asteroid or the (if you will pardon the thought)
delights of sport-utility vehicles?

As a general moral principle, do you think that anything goes when there is "no
controlling legal authority" forbidding it?

Referring to people "who are simply not getting enough to eat" because they
cannot "figure out how to make ends meet, how to get food on the table," you
say: "We cannot stand by and let people in this nation starve." Well.
Diagnosable malnutrition (as distinct from episodes of incidental hunger) is
rare and almost always associated not "simply" with poverty but with alcoholism,
drug addiction, child abuse and other pathologies. What is your understanding of
America's starvation problem?

A Clinton-Gore administration report says that among the American households
living with "resource-constrained hunger" are 185,000 households with annual
incomes exceeding $40,000. Can you explain this?

You welcomed Ellen DeGeneres' televised lesbianism because "Americans were
forced to look at sexual orientation in a more open light." What else should
Americans be "forced" to face? Should state laws acknowledge gay marriages?
Given that gays and supporters of the gay-rights agenda (especially Hollywood)
are important sources of Democratic campaign contributions, what part of that
agenda do you not support?

Addressing the 1996 Democratic convention, you said about tobacco, "When I was a
child, my family was attacked by an invisible force that was then considered
harmless." Was smoking really considered harmless in this country in which
cigarettes had for generations been called "coffin nails"? Are tobacco farmers
immoral?

You say, "There are those at the extremes of both parties who take a dim view of
the future." Are you taking a cheery view when you say our civilization is a
"dysfunctional family" in need of "wrenching transformation" and new "central
organizing principles"? What are the "central organizing principles" that are
outmoded?

Political scientist Larry Sabato and journalist Glenn Simpson say "modern
opposition research truly came into its own in 1988" when you, seeking the
Democratic presidential nomination, raised the Willie Horton case against
Michael Dukakis. Did Republicans do anything wrong in using that issue, too?

Would repeal of the designated-hitter rule (25 years old this year) constitute
illegal discrimination because repeal would have a disparate impact on elderly
players?

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               4 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          November 11, 1998, Wednesday

SHE'S BACK

SECTION: Page Six; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 153 words


GLOBAL warming is so hot that Jane Fonda took time off from her virtual
retirement to talk about the weather on "People Count, Forging Ahead," the
latest in a series of eco-scare specials on hubby Ted Turner's CNN. "While some
experts are still skeptical, over 2,000 of the world's leading scientists say
climate change is real and will likely get worse," Fonda said before the scene
switched to Barbara Pyle, the CNN environmental editor who came up with the
"Captain Planet" cartoon show to teach toddlers the perils of corporate greed.
Pyle showed photos she'd taken of Easter Island, which, said Jane, "is learning
from its past how disastrous climate change can be." We learned that the ancient
Rapa Nui "cleared the forest, and everything was washed away in the rain." Pyle
said the next "People Count" will be next year, when the world's population
reaches 6 billion. "What a horror!" she shuddered.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               5 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 1, 1998, Wednesday

GORE'S GOALS: LESS GROWTH, MORE DEATH

BYLINE: IRWIN M. STELZER

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 981 words


IT is fashionable among political pundits to declare that little of consequence
is going on in Washington, or is likely to go on until after the November
congressional elections. After all, the president is paralyzed by serial sex
scandals, and Congress is eager to do nothing lest it stir up the animosity it
engendered in the activist days of the Gingrich revolution. So Republicans will
do nothing, counting on the advantages of incumbency at a time when rising
incomes and full employment have voters purring contentedly in the new homes and
cars they are buying in increasing numbers.

But doing nothing is the worst thing Congress can do. Several matters are up for
consideration that will have a vital effect on how we all live in the next
several years. And these are not only big-ticket items like the future of
Medicare and Social Security.

First we have the on-going war by environmentalists against big, safe cars. The
president may be hunkering down behind his lawyers, but Al Gore's green team
remains on the job. One leading environmentalist, fresh from a meeting with the
vice president and his staff, told me last week that he has never seen such
hatred as the government bureaucrats are expressing towards the sports utility
vehicles that more and more Americans are buying.

Here's why. Years ago, when it was feared that the world was running out of oil
- the same black stuff that is now glutting world markets - Washington
bureaucrats decided to force manufacturers to produce cars that burned less
gasoline. The only way the companies could comply was by building lighter cars.
But consumers soon decided that these lighter cars were uncomfortably small,
especially for family use.

But manufacturers were barred by the fuel efficiency standards from making
bigger cars. So Americans turned to the sports utility vehicles, minivans and
small trucks that the bureaucrats hadn't included in their anti-big vehicle
rules lest the farmers, who depend on such vehicles, rise up in revolt. Now,
so-called LTVs - light trucks and vans - account for almost 45 percent of all
vehicle sales, and rising.

Because these LTVs weigh about 900 pounds more than the average passenger car,
and sit higher on the road, an unexpected meeting between an LTV and an ordinary
car is bad news for the driver and passengers in the latter. So the nation's
regulators want to force manufacturers to cut the Wagoneers, Suburbans and other
sports utility vehicles down in size.

Small problem: It is not that the LTVs are too big and heavy, but that ordinary
cars have become unsafely small and light. According to government statistics,
crashes between two passenger cars resulted in 4,013 deaths in 1996, while
crashes between heavier vehicles accounted for only 1,225. Indeed, in "Buying a
Safer Car", produced jointly by the government and the AAA, buyers are advised,
"Crash data show that heavy vehicles offer more protection than light vehicles
with the same safety equipment, particularly in two-vehicle crashes."

Clearly, any restrictions on drivers' remaining freedom to chose a sports
utility vehicle or minivan for their families are likely to be lethal. A joint
study by Harvard University and the Brookings Institution concludes that the
500-pound per car downsizing already forced on America's drivers by existing
fuel-efficiency standards translates into 2,200-to-3,900 additional traffic
deaths per model year. Apply those standards to LTVs, and the death toll will
surely mount.

So one thing Congress can do before the elections is to make sure that Gore's
brigade in the Environmental Protection Agency doesn't increase the body count
on the nation's highways. Another is to prevent those same folk from quietly
trekking down to Buenos Aires later this year to shackle our economy with huge,
growth-killing costs.

Few except the most dedicated environmentalists noticed that a dramatic
intervention by our vice president at the Kyoto meeting on global climate change
broke a deadlock and produced a draft treaty, the details of which are to be
ironed out in Argentina later this year.

Forget that scientists are divided on the question of whether the earth is
indeed warming. Forget, too, that even those who think it is warming are
uncertain as to the causes. The important thing is that Gore is feeling the
heat, if not from global warming, then from the environmentalists who will make
up an important part of the troops on which he is relying in his battle for the
Democratic presidential nomination.

So he wants to commit the United States to curtail its use of the fossil fuels
which he says are producing the greenhouse gasses that are causing the globe to
warm. To do this he is willing to turn over to an international regulatory
agency control of the amount of coal, oil and natural gas we may use to run our
factories and cars.

Such a transfer of sovereignty ordinarily can be accomplished only by treaty,
which must be ratified by the Senate. But the Clinton-Gore team know they don't
have the votes: A Republican Senate is not about to turn over an important lever
of economic control to an international body that is likely to be controlled by
countries jealous of America's economic success.

Never to be deterred from doing what it knows is right by the little matter of
our Constitution, the administration is planning to avoid giving Congress a say
in the matter by having the EPA adopt rules that will accomplish its
environmental objectives. This, Congress has the power to stop, thanks to
procedural reforms introduced shortly after the GOP took control of Congress in
1994.

Let's hope it uses that power.


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A leading environmentalist, fresh from a meeting with the vice
president and his staff, told me he has never seen such hatred as the government
bureaucrats are expressing towards sports utility vehicles.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               6 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 22, 1998, Friday

A GORE 2000 PROBLEM?

BYLINE: BEN & DANIEL WATTENBERG

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 687 words


AL Gore can predict global climate change, put real-time video of our lonely
planet on the Internet, and digitize federal benefit transfers - when he's not
putting your middle-schooler on the information superhighway or poring over
blueprints for the Bridge to the New Century.

With the Year 2000 (Y2K) computer crisis looming just 18 months from now (or
less - most state fiscal years begin in July 1999), we are lucky to have such a
man as our vice president.

Aren't we?

"You can't find Gore's tracks anywhere" on the Y2K problem, says Rep. Stephen
Horn (R-Calif.), who has been trying for two years to prod the administration
into speeding up federal Year 2000 conversions.

"What has the administration's technology point man, Vice President Al Gore,
been doing for the past five years?" asked likely GOP presidential candidate
Steve Forbes in a recent memo to Congress and conservative leaders chiding the
administration for its "silence" on Y2K.

In the days of cardboard computer punch cards, programmers conventionally
represented years with two digits instead of four. In "legacy systems" still in
wide use in mainframe computers, all years were assumed to fall in the 20th
century. So, when the 21st century dawns, computer systems that have not been
repaired or replaced will think it's Jan. 1, 1900. That's right, movie fans:
Groundhog Century. Is that why Gore has yet to emerge from his burrow?

Declaring the federal government "on the edge of failure," Horn, chairman of the
House Subcommittee on Government Management, Information and Technology, in
March issued the administration a grade of D- for its belated efforts to
identify, repair and replace outdated computer systems.

Government and private industry are now reallocating manpower and money to the
labor-intensive and expensive effort of hunting down and rewriting billions of
lines of obsolete code. Progress has been achieved. Will it be enough? Nobody
really knows, but be sure to keep hard copies, because everything from banking
records to communications, power and transportation systems could be affected.
One oft-cited estimate says the worldwide tab for the compliance program will be
$600 billion - half of it American.

In 1997, Edward Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, estimated
the odds of a Y2K-induced worldwide recession at 30 percent. In March, after the
latest report on government compliance, he raised the odds of a "severe global
recession" to 60 percent.

Horn estimates that at current rates of progress, just 63 percent of the federal
government's "mission critical" computer systems will be ready by the year 2000.
Administration Y2K czar John Koskinen counters that, as federal agencies
intensify their repair work under deadline pressure, progress is likely to
accelerate. However, even Koskinen stops short of guaranteeing 100 percent
compliance by 2000.

One thing is certain. On Y2K, Bill and Al did stop thinking about tomorrow -
until just about yesterday.

When Horn surveyed Cabinet officers two years ago, he found that two of them had
not even heard of the Year 2000 problem. Despite congressional appeals beginning
almost a year ago, Y2K coordinator Koskinen didn't start work until last March
and, Horn says, Clinton has "spent maybe 10 seconds" raising public awareness of
the crisis.

Most Republicans have been content to play no-fault politics on Y2K. But Steve
Forbes won't let the architects of the bridge to the new century off the hook so
easily. "If the bridge is not going to be ready by the time you open it up for
traffic, it is legitimate to point that out," said Forbes, defending his memo's
charge that Clinton and Gore had gone "AWOL" on Y2K.

The Forbes memo is "a rather extraordinary example of playing the pre-emptive
blame game," returned Gore spokesman Larry Haas.

Maybe. But techno-pride goeth before a techno-fall. Come Jan. 1, 2000, the
government's unrepaired computer systems won't know what century it is. But
voters will. And that could mean an unanticipated Millennium Bug in Al Gore's
race for the presidency in 1900. Oops, 2000.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               7 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          September 19, 1998, Saturday

COW STUDY STINKS TO POL'S RIVAL

BYLINE: RITA DELFINER

SECTION: News; Pg. 014

LENGTH: 428 words


Call it Cowgate.

A political beef over bovine belching is dominating a Senate race in Wisconsin,
the heart of America's dairyland.

Rep. Mark Neumann wants to milk Sen. Russ Feingold's 1993 vote in favor of
government-funded research on cow gas in hopes voters will re-moove the
incumbent and elect him.

Researchers study cows because they produce methane gas during digestion and
release it into the atmosphere by burping. Methane is a key factor in the
earth-warming greenhouse effect.

Neumann, a Republican, began airing TV ads this week that maintain his
Democratic rival is no budget hawk, but instead is soft on cutting government
waste and fighting tax increases.

Neumann's campaign ad features cows making flatulent sounds and a white-coated
scientist running toward Bossie with a glass bottle trying to get a sample of
the emissions.

This smelled like government waste to me, so I wrote a bill that killed the
funding of this ridiculous program, Neumann declared. Feingold doesn't get it.

But Feingold's campaign wasn't cowed by the allegation.

For Neumann to imply that Sen. Feingold supports this obscure cow-gas study is
udderly ridiculous, Feingold's campaign manager, Mike Wittenwyler, retorted this
week.

He said Feingold voted against the 1993 amendment that would have cut
Environmental Protection Agency funding because that would have also eliminated
funding for other methane-research programs such as preventing gas explosions in
landfills and coal mines.

Neumann is grasping at straws in an effort to find a flaw in Senator Feingold's
superb record on deficit reduction, Wittenwyler said.

Over at the EPA, Paul Stolpman, director of the Office of Atmospheric Programs,
concedes its Ruminant Livestock Methane Program has been the butt of a lot of
jokes.

But he says the issue of finding ways to reduce emissions that cause climate
change is very, very serious.

Ruminant animals - cud-chewing animals with a divided stomach - are the
second-leading source of methane in the United States, Stolpman said. Landfills
are the major source," he added.

We're trying to find out what combinations of feed allow the cattle to more
effectively produce milk and, in the process, find the feed that cuts down on
the amount of methane they belch, he said.

Stolpman said the project, which began in 1994 and to date has cost $3 million
to $4 million, is nearing the end of its research phase and farmers are pleased
with the results.

You improve the efficiency of the animal, and it cuts down on pollution, he
declared.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               8 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 17, 1998, Monday

CADILLAC'S REDESIGNED SEVILLE IS A HIT

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 048

LENGTH: 738 words


WHEN Cadillac unveiled its new Seville, it also announced it would take its
flagship to world markets. It was a car that Cadillac management wanted to
eventually meet the needs of 40 markets worldwide. Cadillac hasn't been a big
player on the international scene since 1941 and to accomplish its global goal,
the division built two different Sevilles. One for North America and a slightly
shorter version for overseas. It also had to build right-and left- hand drive
Sevilles.

Last month Cadillac released some of its results for the first half of the year.
In Japan there's been a 66 percent increase compared to last year. In Europe,
sales are up 183 percent. In the Middle East sales are up 124 percent. Before
everyone gets the wrong idea, these are not big U.S. type numbers. Japan
accounted for 1,397, Europe 608 and the Middle East 123. However, every car
company when venturing beyond the borders of its home market usually starts
small. What's encouraging for Cadillac is that the Seville is a player in the
global luxury car market and is gaining fans.

In the U.S., the Seville has always had a following. For me, the dawn of the
1992 Seville was eye opening. It was the first Cadillac I really loved. When I
reported on that car, I said as much so Cadillac knows its never had a lifelong
fan in me.

The 1998 version takes the preceding Seville up a couple of notches. It's
evolutionary rather than revolutionary. The new Seville builds on the styling
and engineering of its predecessor. The styling is not a radical change, keeping
many styling cues, however, the changes are enough to distinguish the two
versions. Two models are available, the SLS and the STS. The test car was the
STS ( Seville Touring Sedan) with a $46,995 base MSRP.

Power comes from Cadillac's third generation Northstar 4.6-liter, 323-valve,
DOHC V8 that delivers 300 horsepower at 6,000 rpm and 295 lb-ft. of torque at
4,400 rpm. The engine is teamed with a smooth four-speed automatic transmission.
The STS transmission has a new feature called Performance Algorithm Shifting.
It's a new software feature that changes the transmission programming when the
car is driven aggressively. No, I'm not going into all the technology. Suffice
too say, the transmission matches the gearing for the job at hand through the
computer controls.

The powertrain has always made the STS a great driving machine and with the
refinements this year, it's even greater. Zero to 60 mph is accomplished in 7.6
seconds. With a mere touch of the accelerator, and the STS jumps into action. It
has all the power attributes of a fine touring machine.

Ride and handling also are strong points. With a completely new third generation
body structure, the STS delivers the firm riding comfort I expect. It rides on a
four-wheel independent suspension with stabilizer bars on both ends. Also
included in the STS is Stabiltrak stability control system and Cadillac's
continuously variable road sensing system. Steering is variable assist
rack-and-pinion and brakes are four-wheel discs with an anti-lock braking
system. Traction control also is part of the package. This STS had optional
($250) P235/60R16 Z rated Goodyear Eagle LS radials mounted on optional ($795)
chrome wheels.

On the road, the STS proves itself to be an excellent driving machine with
superb road manners. Steering is quick and responsive. It grips the road as a
fine touring sedan should. I give it high marks for handling. The interior is
spacious and elegantly trimmed in Zebrano wood leather. Visibility is excellent
and the 8-way power neutral shale leather front seats are very supportive. This
STS also had a the adaptive seat package ( $1,202) that adjusts the seat's
support to custom fit every individual. The system cycles every four minutes to
adjust for moving in the seat. Front and side impact air bags are standard.
Controls are well positioned.

Standard STS features include a dual zone climate control system, power tilt and
telescopic steering column, all power amenities and a Bose 425-watt audio system
with cassette and CD player.

Options included were the Crimson Pearl color ($500) and the wood trim package
consisting of steering wheel and shift knob ($495). Total MSRP was $50,902 with
delivery.

Cadillac's new 1998 STS maintains the fine tradition established by its
predecessor. This is an excellent touring sedan that's truly a world competitor.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               9 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 2, 1998, Friday

GO IT ALONE, OR GLOBAL?

BYLINE: BEN WATTENBERG

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 839 words


The Asian bailouts decrease the possibility of global economic turmoil and make
sense, provided bankers and investors get penalized for lack of prudence.
SADDAM HUSSEINCan't be left to the U.N.IT has become commonplace to announce
that the American public has lost interest in the rest of the world. That may
change soon, and should. The American future has tipped a part of its hand. We
may not know how everything will turn out in the post-Cold War world, but we can
better sense what the argument will sound like.

Consider some recent situations: Environmentalists and bureaucrats assemble in
Kyoto, Japan, to bleat about global warming. Congress rejects the idea of "fast
track" trade negotiation. The president announces - surprise! - that American
troops are in Bosnia indefinitely. Saddam Hussein creates biological, chemical
and nuclear weapons of mass destruction while the United Nations sucks its
thumb. The United States, and other industrial nations, fork over $57 billion to
bail out South Korea.

These situations are linked by a common theme: Each involves the possibility of
American action in tight concert with other nations. This means America has less
freedom to act alone. Two themes have emerged to guide our broad thinking: "Go
It Alone, Leave It Alone" and "We're Going Global, Ready or Not." Alas, neither
works as a General Theory.

Should America go it alone, leave it alone? It sounds good. But if we stay out
of Bosnia, will we be partly responsible for a civil war in Europe, boding ill
for global stability? If we don't participate in the Korean bailout, will
financial institutions tumble like falling dominoes, crashing share prices and
pension plans everywhere? If we don't keep encouraging trade, will we diminish
our ability to reap the benefits of trade?

Should America go global, ready or not? If we leave it to the global dither
factory at the United Nations, will we wake up one morning and find out that
Saddam Hussein has put anthrax in our Cheerios? If we sign on to the Kyoto deal
and cut greenhouse energy use in America by 38 percent from today's levels -
will we be poorer but no healthier?

There are aspects of Go It Alone that make sense. Who wants to be pushed around
by a bunch of foreigners? There are aspects of Globalism that make sense. How
can we lead the world if we don't participate in it?

The American political genius typically expresses itself eclectically, a dash of
this, a pinch of that, in pursuit of a broader vision. Today, the challenge is
to harness in tandem the views of the Nationalists and the Internationalists,
the go-it-aloners and the whole-worlders.

How? Start with a fact: America is unique in the history of the world. America
is not only the "sole surviving superpower," but the pre-eminent military,
geo-political, scientific, cultural, technological, demographic, ideological,
linguistic and commercial power in the world. Our uniqueness means that there
may be times when we have to make our own rules as we go along, by trial and
probably error.

Linger on that word "ideological." We have a point of view: that free politics
and free markets are good for us, and good for all of God's children. Insofar as
we can promote such a view, we help ourselves by diminishing the possibility
that people in the 21st century will suffer some of the tragic aspects of the
20th, including hot and cold wars.

So we should look at issues case by case through a prism of enlightened
nationalism. Do we help ourselves when we act globally? In Bosnia, probably yes.
The costs are relatively small, and if it works out, we are much better off. The
Asian bailouts decrease the possibility of global economic turmoil and make
sense, provided bankers and investors get penalized for lack of prudence. "Fast
track" trade negotiating authority will help keep America in first place. On
these matters, go global.

But the global warming issue is a first-class farce, based on dubious science,
idiotic economics and bossy green politics. It may well be wise to gently cut
back on fossil fuels, but not under the threat that if we don't, Minnesota will
be plagued by tropical diseases and Florida will be submerged. Far from going
global on this one, we ought to get the global community to calm down.

An opposite reaction should be our rule regarding Iraq. The nut with the
mustache not only can kill millions of people, or use blackmail because he can
kill millions, but if he isn't straitjacketed, he will set a model for wackos
yet to come. We ought to twist arms with gusto at the United Nations, and if
that doesn't work, do it ourselves.

Other nations will resent our apparent all-powerful ability to write the rules
if we must. But we've behaved judiciously, and they also know that if we don't
act, they suffer. Americans ought to understand that we're the major stockholder
in the world. As the world does better, our shares go up in value.


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NATIONALISTS & INTERNATIONALISTS; AMERICA WILL ALWAYS NEED BOTH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               10 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 6, 1998, Wednesday

CREATING THE CITY OF THE FUTURE

BYLINE: IRWIN M. STELZER

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 1027 words


SOMETIMES we get so diverted by local politics that we fail to understand the
broader forces that are at work determining whether New York will continue its
recovery from the Dinkinsesque depths, and retain its global financial
preeminence. Sure, the mayor matters, as do the governor and the city's assorted
pols. But so do factors that are not immediately obvious to us.

One such development occurred last weekend, when 11 European countries pushed
ahead with plans to abandon the frank, Mark, peseta and other national
currencies in favor of a single currency, the Euro. This means that some 290
million people in nations that produce $6.3 trillion a year in goods and
services will have one currency. The United States has a slightly smaller
population, 266 million, and somewhat larger gross domestic product, $7.8
trillion. But the new Euroland's economic clout is close enough to America's to
have Wall Street worried.

New York's foreign-currency traders who 0made their livings swapping French
franks for German Marks, or Spanish pesetas for Austrian schillings, are out of
work, or about to be. As of Jan. 1, 1999, Euromembers' currencies will no longer
fluctuate in value against one another - and will disappear altogether in 2002.

More important, many analysts are predicting that Europe will increasingly
become an alternative to the U.S. as a place to which multinationals go to raise
capital, giving Frankfurt - the home of the new European Central Bank - a shot
at rivaling New York as one of the world's leading financial centers.

If all of this happens - and that's no small "if" - it might be bad news for New
York. The budgets of both Mayor Giuliani and Gov. Pataki predict a huge, almost
perpetual flow of revenues to their treasuries from the coffers of investment
bankers and brokers. New competition from a monetarily unified Europe might just
prove those predictions to be mere wishful thinking.

The Euro is only one of the many largely unseen international forces that will
determine New York's future profitability. A new study on urban competitiveness,
based on a huge mass of economic and demographic data, concludes, "The economic
growth of cities and metropolitan areas, and the standards of living of their
people, depend increasingly on the ability of businesses and industries to
engage in global economic interaction through trade and investment."

The study's authors are Professors Dennis Rondinelli and Gyula Vastag, of the
University of North Carolina and Michigan State University, respectively. As
they see it, the ability of a city to prosper depends on its ability to shift
from industries that depend on low-wage labor to those that are based on a
"technology- and knowledge-based system of production and services."

That's good news for New York - for many reasons.

For one thing, the professors' study of 11 metropolitan areas around the world
ranks New York tops in international and urban competitiveness, with Frankfurt
second, San Francisco third, London fourth and Hong Kong fifth. The rankings
give heavy weight to the overall business climate; quality-of-life conditions
such as health care facilities, crime rates, and theater facilities; and the
agility of the city's firms to respond to changing conditions. New York scores
well on all points.

There can be no doubt that Rudy Giuliani has improved the overall business
climate by bringing the city's finances under control. Nor can any resident or
visitor fail to notice the improvement in the quality of life on the streets of
New York.

And a recent tour of some of this city's new, thrusting firms told me volumes
about the ability of New York entrepreneurs to adapt to the demands of the new
era in which brains are replacing brawn as the key to success.

Marty Hertz, CEO of the Environetics Group, one of the city's leading design
firms, briefed me on the massive changes he has witnessed in recent years. He
also took me on a quick tour: Firms that once insisted on prestige Madison
Avenue addresses now prefer the massive open spaces and high ceilings of
formerly near-derelict buildings in lower Manhattan and on the far West Side.
The jeans-clad technophiles who populate the city's new firms prefer the
informality of these buildings, their open "feel" and their ability to provide
informal meeting places that, in Hertz's words, "lend themselves to the exchange
of group creativity," to the paneled offices that were once de rigueur for
successful New York executives.

Firms that once spent huge sums on fancy offices and visibly posh appointments,
says Hertz, are now putting their money into invisible infrastructure - fiber
optics, air conditioning that can handle the increased heat loads from having a
PC in every office, flexible layouts that can be changed as personnel
requirements shift in response to changing customer needs.

All of this bears out what the Manhattan Institute's Peter Huber reports in the
current issue of City Journal. "Forget Palo Alto," writes Huber. "New York City
is where the cyber meets the road." The New York metropolitan area is blessed
with scores of companies that are busily installing the additional wired
infrastructure that will be required to "move the e-mail, Web pages, stock
trades, TV feeds, and all the rest of the value that digital bits convey."
Already, AT&T, Bell Atlantic, Sprint and WorldCom are "selling more bandwidth in
New York City than anywhere else." And an alphabet soup of companies such as
RCN, TCG and MFS is rushing to provide still more.

No surprise, says Huber. It is a lot cheaper, on a per-customer basis, to
provide advanced telecoms service in densely populated areas than in sparsely
populated ones. The Yankees may think their future lies in the swamps of the
suburbs, but the businesses of the next century are more likely to prefer the
underground wires of New York to the overhead greenery of the boondocks.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'A recent tour of some of this city's new, thrusting firms told me
volumes about the ability of New York entrepreneurs to adapt to the demands of
the new era in which brains are replacing brawn as the key to success.'

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               11 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           August 27, 1998, Thursday

RELIGIOUS LEADERS' NEW FALSE IDOL; IS ENVIRONMENTAL HYPOCHONDRIA AN EXCUSE TO
AVOID THEIR REAL JOBS?

BYLINE: DAVID GELERNTER

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 976 words


YOU will be relieved to learn that the nation's religious leaders, having got
sin pretty much under control, are moving on to science.

Major church groups in the United States, the New York Times reported not long
ago, are mounting an unusually broad and active campaign to get the Senate to
approve an international deal called the Kyoto Protocol that was negotiated last
year.

The protocol commits rich nations such as the United States to fight global
warming by sharply reducing the amount of carbon dioxide we vent to the
atmosphere. Roman Catholic bishops and many southern conservatives are not on
board; Orthodox Jewish groups (as far as I know) are likewise uncooperative. But
the rest of our religious mainstream seems to have endorsed Kyoto - thereby
executing a startling one-two combination punch that slams science and religion
simultaneously, by subordinating both to cheesy politics.

I have no reason to doubt that the churchmen themselves are fine upstanding
persons, but their advice on this issue is foolish enough to qualify as immoral.
Laymen need to throw a calming, steadying arm "round the church's shoulder, and
maybe buy it a drink.

As a rule, religious groups turn to political issues that have no direct
connection to theology (every issue has an indirect connection) when they no
longer believe in religion - or have grown tired of it. I know this from bitter
experience in the American Jewish community.

Jewish leaders helped direct the civil-rights movement of the 1960s. This seemed
like a legitimate religious activity at the time, and in retrospect still does.
But it led many rabbis to a discovery: They loved politics. Politics was a much
more up-and-coming field than God.

The nation could do without men of the cloth; over the '60s and '70s, it gave
them steadily less attention and respect. But there was a crying need for
leftist agitators - and at a moment when religion seemed increasingly puzzling,
politics was crystal clear. God? Who knows about God? But the war in Vietnam was
immoral; there was a teaching you could take to the bank. Feminism,
environmentalism, nuclear freeze - they all turned out to be miraculously
clear-cut. You could set your watch by the radio and your politics by The New
York Times every morning.

A few principled rabbis, including some leftists, fought the trend. But they
lost, and today's mainstream American Judaism has turned into an asteroid belt:
numberless pointy fragments tumbling through outer space, muttering continuously
about inclusivity and humankind (you can pick them up on radio telescopes),
utterly remote from the lives of the laity.

Which brings me to the Kyoto Protocol. The problem is, first, that there is no
scientific consensus on global warming. (See, for example, Michael Sanera and
Jane Shaw's fine book Facts, Not Fear.) The earth has been getting warmer,
check: Over the last century, average temperatures have risen about one
Fahrenheit degree. Break out the emergency rum coolers.

It's possible that our carbon-dioxide exhaust is trapping heat like the glass of
a greenhouse, and thereby heating things up. But if you endorse this theory, why
did average temperatures rise faster in the 1910s and '20s (before the modern
surge in carbon dioxide) than over the last few decades? Why did they fall
between 1938 and 1970, as carbon dioxide increased? Does your theory account for
the long-term temperature cycles that happen by themselves? There has been a lot
of global warming since the last Ice Age.

Scientists (and therefore churchmen) don't know. In a decade or two, the picture
will be clearer. In the meantime it is clear that, as Jonathan Adler writes in a
recent National Review, we could think it over for 20 years and do nothing - and
the long-term effect of our 20-year delay will be virtually nil. Climate moves
slowly.

But the churchmen don't want to wait. They want action now, before prayerbooks
start bursting into flame. Supporting Kyoto is a litmus test for the faith
community, according to the general secretary of the National Council of
Churches. So they are proposing that the nation spend (according to the Clinton
administration's low-ball estimate) $7 billion to $12 billion a year to comply.
(Independent studies predict a 50-cent rise in gasoline prices, 70 percent jump
in home-heating costs and so on.)

Well, why not? We've got the money. The problem is, what if Americans want to
spend that annual $7 billion on some other cause than environmental
hypochondria? What if they want to give it to charity? What if they want to keep
it? How about if we established a national grant program for mothers who want to
stay home and rear their children but can't afford to, or have husbands who
won't let them? I'm not proposing such a program. But it would make far better
sense on moral terms than what church leaders are promoting.

They are saying, in effect, we feel fine today, but we're anticipating cardiac
problems in 10 years - so if you don't mind, we'd like that heart operation
right now. It would make us feel so much better. The obvious response is,
indulge your hypochondria (if you must) with your own money - but you're foolish
to do it, and you risk creating problems instead of solving them.

Granted, global warming might turn into an actual, confirmed problem some day.
In the meantime, we face an actual, confirmed problem right now. Our natural
environment is in good shape, but our spiritual environment is in steep decline.
And with every passing year, our religious leadership seems to care less about
religion.


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Our religious mainstream seems to have endorsed 'the Kyoto Protocol to
fight global warming_ - thereby executing a startling one-two combination punch
that slams science and religion simultaneously, by subordinating both to cheesy
politics.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               12 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 4, 1998, Friday

THE PRESIDENT MAY BE IN DANGER - BUT AMERICA IS NOT

BYLINE: BEN WATTENBERG

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 043

LENGTH: 834 words


AUGUST is supposed to be a dead news month, but that's not what happened in the
eighth month of 1998. In rapid succession came: Clinton's confused confession,
anti-American terror, cruise missiles flying, Russia's financial collapse and
stock markets tumbling around the world. Then, on the very last day of the
month, the Dow fell 512 points, a Black 'n' Blue Monday. No dead news here. As
usual, however, exaggeration rides the curve of breaking bad news.

A man from another planet, following the beating gums of August, might well
think that America is in free-fall, on the ropes, in a bursting bubble. By
Tuesday morning, Sept. 1, it sounded as if the apocalyptic millenarians of the
year 1000 were back, slapping their rusted tambourines. I'm dubious. What's
going on is no day at the beach, but many things are happening at once.

I have just concluded almost a year's work on a PBS one-hour special titled
America is Number One - Now What? (PBS, Sept. 8, 10 p.m., consult local
listings). It begins with an outline of America's current position. In short:
America is the most influential nation - in the history of the world.

The American economy is four times larger than that of any other country.
America is the only nation with the ability to project military power globally,
with 12 carrier groups; Russia has one, barely operational. Americans have won
62 percent of the Nobel Prizes in science and medicine since 1950.
American-style democracy is the wave of the future, albeit in a most turbulent
sea. Reversing a trend in motion since the Tower of Babel, the world is adopting
American (English) as a near-universal language. American popular culture -
movies, television, music - is the only player in the global game. And so on.
(It's an interesting television program, and an interesting time.)

The currently stormy global environment does not change this situation; in fact
in some ways it enhances it. There is a zero-sum aspect to some of what is going
on. Other nations are stumbling from - what? - political instability, perilous
banking policies, opaque security markets, low commodity prices, high
unemployment, whatever. Power and influence are relative conditions, not
absolute. The American economy is still strong; not as strong as a month ago,
but strong. Other nations are much weaker. Accordingly, in the real world we are
relatively stronger than before.

Now, unlike power, economics is not generally a zero-sum game. America is better
off economically when other nations also do well. Wealth spreads, and increased
global trade has been salutary. But America is the most potentially autarkic
(self-sufficient) nation in the world.

Our own market comprises nearly 300 million people, with the highest per capita
income. We have a full complement of necessary natural resources. The proportion
of the American economy in international trade has grown in recent decades.
Imports and exports made up 10 percent of the economy in 1954. By 1994 that
proportion had climbed to 28 percent, of which about 12 percent is in exports,
the potentially vulnerable area. But the American proportion of all trade in
relation to the total economy (28 percent) is still way less than that of most
other advanced nations: Germany 47 percent, England 57 percent, France 44
percent. In short, America can move toward a go-it-alone economy, if it comes to
that. (And you can shop in Canada for about 60 cents on the dollar, and get
bargains all over the world.)

And then there is our president. He is in a domestic ditch, deservedly. It was
said that his meeting with Russia's Boris Yeltsin would only put two tottering
leaders in the same room. Two tottering leaders, perhaps, but not two tottering
nations.

It was also said that Clinton went to Moscow only to divert attention from his
domestic problems. But Clinton carried with him the strength of the most
powerful nation in the world. He can wield that power as long as he is
president, which will likely be until Jan. 20, 2001. Before we listen to any
more talk of impotent presidents, we might well remember that Richard Nixon was
wallowing in Watergate in October of 1973, when he decided to change the
situation on the ground during an Arab-Israeli war. Within hours the C5-As were
on their way to the Sinai, re-enforcing depleted Israeli military stocks, just
as if there were no Watergate.

On matters of serious policy concern we should assume that Clinton continues to
act in the best interest of the nation. After all, should it come out that he is
not, he's toast. (And if Democrats lose seats in Congress because of Clinton's
behavior, that's not going to hurt the business climate in America.)

Beyond all this is the really good news: It's September.


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It was said that President Clinton went to Moscow only to divert
attention from his domestic problems. But Clinton carried with him the strength
of the most powerful nation in the world. He can wield that power as long as he
is president.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               13 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          November 4, 1998, Wednesday

AN ILL WIND FROM BUENOS AIRES/

BYLINE: Irwin M. Stelzer

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 1029 words


/T/HE elections are over, and it is time to focus on things that matter, things
that can affect the way we live. In fact, there is a sense in which what is
happening in Buenos Aires right now is going to prove a lot more important than
what happened in polling places around America yesterday. After all, no matter
who won last night, things won't change very much. Now that the Democrats have
decided that it is good politics to be on the side of the cops rather than the
crooks and the sociologist H. L. Mencken once wrote, "The whole aim of practical
politics is to keep the populace alarmed (and hence clamorous to be led to
safety) by menacing it with a series of hobgoblins." By arguing that we are
indeed facing a warming planet, the government can justify raising taxes on
gasoline, limiting the size of cars, regulating the fuels that factories may
burn and setting standards for residential construction.// (Clinton doesn't seek
out photo ops by posing with the sociology department of Harvard when the
uniformed police force of some small town can be trotted out instead), and the
Republicans have decided that spending our money is more fun than giving it back
to us as tax cuts, it doesn't matter very much which side came out ahead last
night.

But what is going on in Argentina does. A lot. No, this is not another piece
about the collapse of the international financial system. For one thing, the
international financial system is not collapsing, unless you call the loss of
some big bucks by high-income investors a collapse. For another, Argentina is
not troubled Brazil, on which we are about to shower many billions so that Wall
Street bankers can continue to earn 20 percent returns without taking any risk.

What is going on in Argentina is a gathering of the world's environmentalists,
bureaucrats and industry lobbyists to push forward a program to cut the
emissions of greenhouse gases.

It seems that many scientists are convinced that the world is becoming a hotter
place, and that the cause is the burning of coal, oil and natural gas for
purposes ranging from heating and cooling our homes to powering our ever-larger
cars. They hold up charts showing that temperatures on the earth are rising.
Other equally reputable scientists disagree. They point to charts that show that
temperature readings taken from satellites suggest that the earth is not heating
up, and may actually be cooling off a bit.

Politicians prefer the crowd that says it's getting hotter. For they see in the
threat of global warming a reason to do what they do best - tax and regulate.

The great journalist H. L. Mencken once wrote, "The whole aim of practical
politics is to keep the populace alarmed (and hence clamorous to be led to
safety) by menacing it with a series of hobgoblins." By arguing that we are
indeed facing a warming planet, the government can justify raising taxes on
gasoline, limiting the size of cars, regulating the fuels that factories may
burn and setting standards for residential construction.

So it is no surprise that those who favor regulation and high taxes accept the
evidence that the world is getting hotter, while those who fear further
excursions by the government into the private sector and private lives tend to
view the temperature data with a cooler eye.

Nor should it come as a surprise that the Clinton-Gore team professes to see a
dangerous warming trend. They point to data that show that the earth has warmed
substantially since around 1500 AD. True, I am told. But that uses as a the
trend's starting point a mini-ice age that lasted about 450 years and led to
crop failures and famine in Europe. To have warmed since people and crops were
freezing hardly seems a bad thing.

And the administration has run into a problem. In its initial presentation to
Congress, it argued that reducing America's energy consumption would not prove
very costly. But Congress, after great effort, extracted studies from the Energy
Department that showed that the administration was being economical with the
truth.

It seems that the cost of compliance will be moderate only if the rest of the
world agrees to what is called the trading of emissions permits. That's a system
under which we pay other countries to reduce emissions from their dirty plants,
which would be a lot cheaper than us further reducing emissions from our
already-clean plants.

Unfortunately, other countries aren't going to go along with a plan that lets us
continue to run our factories, drive our cars and heat our houses just about
they way we do now. As an Argentine diplomat told me, "We want Americans to use
less energy. It is a moral issue. You use too much." So the Energy Department
estimates that by 2010 compliance will drive gasoline prices up as much as 66
cents per gallon more than they would otherwise by, and electricity rates to
levels 86 percent above what they would otherwise be. And GDP will be 4.1
percent lower in 2010 than if we refuse to go along with restrictions on our
energy use.

The good news is that the Senate has announced that it will never ratify a
treaty that imposes such costs on American consumers, and cripples our
industries' ability to compete in the international market place. The bad news
is that the administration will attempt to accomplish by administrative edict
what it will be unable to accomplish by treaty.

Already, the safety agencies have begun a war against sport-utility vehicles,
the quintessential symbol (in the eyes of public-transportation-loving
bureaucrats) of wasteful self-indulgence, and the Environmental Protection
Agency is planning new regulations to force us to use less energy. And after
2000, if the Republicans continue to set records for ineptitude in presidential
elections, the Gore administration can be counted on to push for the reduction
of greenhouse-gas emissions with even greater fervor than the Clinton
administration.

In short, there is something worse than political paralysis and the mud-slinging
pols that we have seen in this just-ended election season. It is the possibility
of political activity by squeaky-clean environmentalist extremists.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               14 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          November 18, 1998, Wednesday

SIR SURLY WOULD BE POISON IN PINSTRIPES

BYLINE: TOM KEEGAN

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 074

LENGTH: 705 words


Albert just doesn't get it, and pinstripes aren't going to magically change that
reality.

LEAVE it to George King - the only person on earth grumpier than Albert Belle -
to encourage the Yankees to sign baseball's biggest misanthrope since Ty Cobb.
Leave it to King, who looks at a pictorial of Cindy Crawford and complainsabout
the mole, to think it's a peachy idea for George Steinbrenner to open his vault
and invite Affable Al to walk right in and take, take, take.

And leave it to King George to listen to George King and drop a time bomb in the
middle of the Yankees' clubhouse.

Steinbrenner won't have to politic for a new stadium if he brings Belle to town.
Belle and The Bronx would be such a combustible mix the Stadium could explode
from sheer stress.

The latest spin on Belle, the best hitter in baseball, centers on his reputation
as a "good guy in the clubhouse." This borders on hilarity.

Everyone who has played with him is too afraid to say otherwise for fear he'll
retaliate with a thrown baseball or, worse, his car. Or maybe he only chases
kids with his car.

Oh, he's good in the clubhouse, all right, as long as you are a thermostat
salesman who works on commission. Once Albert didn't like the temperature in the
Cleveland clubhouse and complained to the clubhouse attendant, who explained the
climate was out of his control and suggested Belle take the complaint to GM John
Hart.

A day later, Belle found the temperature still too hot and took his bat to the
thermostat. For the next month, a hole in the wall where the thermostat used to
be served as a reminder to walk on eggshells around Mr. Freeze.

Belle had an ongoing battle with Indian teammate Kenny Lofton about the music
that blasted out of Lofton's compact-disc player. Belle ended the argument by
taking a bat to the equipment and destroying it. He's great in the clubhouse,
all right. With a bat in his hands.

Albert just doesn't get it, and pinstripes aren't going to magically change
that.

Three days after he signed with the Sox, he showed up at Jacobs Field to use the
workout facilities. Hart got wind of it and phoned security. Some lucky guard
had the duty of telling Belle to get lost. The world revolves around Albert.

He's great with teammates. I love that one.

Long after his knees had given out, Kevin Seitzer's heart had not, so he
continued his playing career. Seitzer did all he could just to get from second
to third on a Belle single to left. Incensed that Seitzer did not score on the
play, Belle glared at him from first base, letting him know he did not
appreciate being denied the RBI from the back of a baseball card that has
numbers second to no active hitter in baseball.

Great teammate? No.

Great hitter? Yes.

In the past eight seasons - two of them strike-shortened - Belle has averaged 39
homers and 122 RBIs. And the White Sox aren't even making him a contract offer.
They don't want him back even after the incredible season he just finished for
them. What does that tell you, George and George?

Great teammate? When the White Sox and Indians met in spring training for the
first time since Belle changed uniforms, not a single former Indian teammate
approached Belle to say hello. Manager Mike Hargrove shook his hand, but only
Davey Nelson, former Indian first base coach and a close confidant, talked with
Belle at length.

Belle could do no wrong in Nelson's eyes, at least until the
coach-turned-broadcaster attempted to interview Belle and was blown off by him,
a classless show of non-respect to a man who had done so much for him.

Oh well, at least the public-relations director doesn't have to waste any time
arranging interviews for Belle. He might have to attend batting practice,
looking nervously in every direction, to make sure no photographer attempts to
take his picture. That was part of PR man Bart Swain's job in Cleveland.

Belle creates tension everywhere he walks, and there wasn't a more tension-free
room in baseball than Joe Torre's Yankee clubhouse this past season.

Belle would represent the ultimate test of Torre's ability to keep the
atmosphere relaxed. It would be a fascinating development to watch. From a
distance. In a suit of armor.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               15 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 11, 1998, Sunday

WHAT'S ALL THE FUSS ABOUT EL NINO? ; NEW YORKERS HAVE YET TO ADOPT L.A.'S
OBSESSION OVER THE MOST DREADED WEATHER SYSTEM OF THE YEAR

BYLINE: SAMME CHITTUM

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 041

LENGTH: 784 words


When did El Nino go from being a daunting global phenomenon to the Rodney
Dangerfield of weather trends?

For this surely is the fate of El Nino - that mysterious, storm-generating body
of warm water lurking in the Pacific that just can't get any respect here in
Manhattan.

"Is It The El Nino Of The Century?" a Time headline trumpeted inAugust.

But come December, El Nino was fodder for David Letterman jokes.

According to writers for the "Late Show," some "Rejected Names for El Nino"
include "Senor Stormy," "Al Roker's Meal Ticket," and "Gee, Your Monsoon Smells
Terrific."

Now it's being blamed for a premature case of spring fever, hardly a frightening
prospect.

"Quite frankly, El Nino's been nothing but nice for us," says Linda Church,
meteorologist for WCBS Channel 2.

"You hear a lot of "Let's blame it on El Nino jokes,'" confirms Channel 4
forecaster Janice Huff. "There's not a lot of conversation here about the
serious side of it."

Locally speaking, El Nino portends a wimpy winter, with rain and mild temps.

So far, New Yorkers aren't impressed with this strangely spa-like effect.

"I've heard about El Nino in the news, but to me this is just weather," says
Geoff Niemark, enjoying a smoke sans coat outside his Midtown office. "It could
be temperature fluctuations, or maybe it's the green house effect," he muses.

Co-worker and fellow puffer Michael Malave says his family in Puerto Rico talks
a lot about El Nino, and wonders why it's called El Nino anyway?

(The phenomenon gets it's name from a Spanish term meaning "The Christ child"
because these balmy ocean temperatures peak around Christmas.)

In years of a strong El Nino, wind currents over the Pacific reverse direction
and head east over the United States. This warm Pacific air current can block
out the cold northerly air we usually get.

But even as New Yorkers shed their coats, they refuse to doff their hats to El
Nino.

"I hate it," says Arlene DeLaRosa, taking in the scene on 48th Street this week.
"I love the cold weather. Jack Frost where are you?"

Her friend, Paul Davis, is more appreciative, but worries about the consequences
of going coatless. "This is good for me," says Davis. "But it's bound to mess
people up. A lot of them are going to get sick."

New Yorkers, guilty of tough-guy hubris, are also belittling Californian's El
Nino obsession, making our West Coast counterparts out to be a flock of Chicken
Littles who won't stop yelling, "The sky is falling."

Among El Nino naysayers are Manhattanites who've moved west.

"My husband has been out playing golf, so how bad can it be?" quips attorney
Deborah Lake, who grew up here but now lives in Hollywood.

Evelyn Adler, who has relatives in San Francisco, says "environmentally
sensitive" Californians take El Nino to heart. But here, where Adler, a
restaurant manager, schmoozes with customers at Limonzello in Midtown, "nobody
even mentions it," she says.

Has the El Nino build-up lead to a let down?

"The whole El Nino thing seems like much ado about nothing," says East
Coast-bred actress Caerthan Banks, who appears in the film, "The Sweet
Hereafter" and lives in Los Angeles.

"Whenever we get a little sprinkle out here, all the TV stations jump in with
these bulletins about "Storm Watch 97!' And there's some reporter standing there
with a pile of sandbags and five drops of drizzle."

To be fair, Californians have more cause to fret about El Nino, which brews up
storms right off the coast, threatening mud slides and flooding.

Still, "Most meteorologists feel like it's being overplayed by the media," says
Mike Wyllie of the National Weather Service in Upton, New York. "We're hearing
everything blamed on El Nino, including the fact that the Giants were in the
playoffs."

Maybe this disregard for El Nino's serious side is tied to New Yorkers' contempt
for weather in general. With the sky obscured by steel and concrete underfoot,
bad weather is experienced as a minor special effect on a giant manmade set.

The concept of a huge city paralyzed by a blizzard seems almost quaint,
something out of a sepia-toned photo documenting the blizzard of 1888.

But stay your judgment, ye who would taunt the elements. El Nino, with the help
of a cold front or a punishing Northeaster, could yet show its nasty side,
meteorologists say, and gain instant respect.

A tepid winter rudely interrupted by a brutal snow storm "is exactly what
happened in February of 1983," the year of the last El Nino, says Wyllie. "We
had over 17 inches of snow in Central Park and over 21 at Kennedy," Wyllie
recalls.

"Complacency," adds Church, "is not the way to go. Winter is just getting
started."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               16 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           April 15, 1998, Wednesday

APRIL 15 IS JUST THE BEGINNING; DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS ALIKE ARE EAGER TO
SPEND YOUR DOUGH

BYLINE: IRWIN M. STELZER

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 948 words


IF you are like 25 million procrastinating Americans, today is the day on which
you send a large portion of your hard-earned money to our friendly Internal
Revenue Service. But the government wants more, much more, than the 40 percent
it already takes of everything Americans earn.

Bill Clinton has decided that his promise that the age of big government is over
is no longer operative, and wants to spend the budget surplus and more on some
of his and Hillary's pet programs. Meanwhile, the Republicans have forgotten
that they promised to let you keep more of your money when a budget surplus
emerged, and plan instead to squander it on projects that they hope will please
their hometown voters.

The one-time Republican radicals, elected to shrink government, came to
Washington and went native: Like Democrats, they now know better than you do how
to spend your money. So politicians in both parties have set their sights on two
potentially gigantic sources of funds - cigarettes and fuels.

The cigarette story is the more widelyreported. The president and the Congress
want to impose as much as $600 billion in taxes on smokers over the next 25
years. Since a great majority of smokers have low incomes, the new taxes, an
extra $1,000 or so per smoking household, will come to more than many families
pay in income taxes.

The hypocrisy is clear: If the taxes are high enough to stop people from
enjoying a cigarette, there will be no new money coming into the government's
coffers. Yet Clinton is planning to finance his new education and other programs
with themoney he expects to get by socking it to smokers. So he knows that
people will keep puffing, although perhaps a bit less, tax or no tax. Most of
the teen-agers who can find $150 for a pair of Air Jordans will find a few extra
bucks for a forbidden pack. Clinton wants the money, not a smoke-free America.

The practice of hiding a greedy grab for our money behind a cloak of virtue does
not stop with the cigarette police. Next in line are the energy cops. Led by Al
Gore, this crowd is convinced that the earth is warming, and that our insistence
on burning fuel by driving to work or to the beach, jetting to business meetings
or to

visit grandma, and keeping our homes

comfortably warm in the winter and pleasantly cool in the summer is the culprit.

Never mind that most qualified scientists who have studied the data are
unconvinced that the globe is warming.

Or that there has been no increasing trend in average temperatures since we
really became an oil, coal and gas-driven economy after World War II. Facts are
not the stuff of which environmental policy is made. Instead, Gore's greens
start from a view of the world far different from that of most Americans.

Most of us think economic growth is a good thing. We associate it with rising
incomes and living standards, an increased willingness and ability of the
"haves" to share with the "have-nots," jobs for all and even a cleaner
environment, as growth allows clean industries to replace PRsmoky ones.

Environmentalists have a different view. Economic growth, as they see it, is a
bad thing, despoiling our environment. In his book, "Earth in the Balance," Gore
characterizes a new housing development as an example of "humankind's 'mankind
is no longer politically correct in Gore's circle_ assault on the earth." That
the homes being built would satisfy the dreams of human beings counts less to
him than the fact that "the wild things that lived there were forced to flee."

There is another respect in which the world view of Americans differs from that
of many environmentalists - the extent to which government should interfere in
the lives of ordinary citizens.

Few deny that government has a role to play in preventing one citizen or group
from harming another. But the notion that government should tell its citizens
that they may not smoke in their own offices, or must wear helmets when they
cycle, or cannot keep guns in their own homes to protect themselves from harm
... that goes down hard, especially west of the Hudson River.

Environmental advocates see things differently. They start from a world view
that says that it is proper for government to protect the citizen from himself,
to tell him not to smoke, what foods to eat and how to get to work (mass transit
yes, private cars no).

Conservative politicians disagree, or seem to. But even these politicians, who
say they think it important to keep the economy growing and to limit the
intrusiveness of government, are seduced by the prospect of a stepped-up flow of
money into the government's hands.

So when the greens, in pursuit of slower economic growth and more regulatory
control over Americans' lives, propose energy taxes, allegedly to prevent global
warming by discouraging the use of gasoline and other fossil-based fuels, the
conservatives will fold.

That's what conservative Republicans such as Newt Gingrich and the otherwise
estimable Sen. John McCain are doing as they line up with President Clinton to
tax those who chose to smoke. Count on them to line up with President Gore to
tax the naughty folk who drive big cars, and keep their houses warmer and cooler
than the bureaucrats decide is necessary. They simply can't resist still another
dip into every citizen's wallet and purse.

The green they are after has nothing to do with the environment. It is the color
of money - your money.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Clinton plans to finance new programs with the money he expects to get
by socking it to smokers. So he knows that people will keep puffingalthough
perhaps a bit less, tax or no tax. He wants the money, not a smoke-free
America.'

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               17 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 23, 1998, Monday

MERCEDES C280:A SPORTING MACHINE

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 042

LENGTH: 669 words


BY now, everyone knows Mercedes-Benz is in an expansion mode. Three new classes
have emerged in the course of the past year - the SLK roadster, the CLK coupe
and the M-Class all-activity vehicle. AutoPlus has reported on all these
vehicles.

To further distinguish the model range, Mercedes added the CL-Class of coupes.
In the past, these big coupes, the CL5OO and limited production CL600 were
lumped together with the S-Class sedans. But Mercedes is going to a family
strategy that separates classes for coupe models.

What does this have to do with the C-Class? Quite a bit actually. The C-Class is
the best selling model in the company's history. Two models are available, the
four-cylinder powered C230 and the V6 C280. The V6 is significant because it is
the first V6 produced by Mercedes-Benz. There are two members in this new engine
family - a 2.8-liter and a 3.32-liter. The 3.2-liter goes in the CLK320, the
E320 and the ML320 while the C280 gets the 2.8-liter engine, but more about that
later for there's more news for the C280.

My test vehicle was a ruby colored, black-leather interior C280 with the Sport
option package. Its base MSRP was $35,400 and the sport package was $890.

Both C-Class models have a sportier look this year thanks to a redesigned front
air dam, new side sills and more flared wheels openings. The grille now has more
prominent horizontal bars. In the rear, there are new smoked taillights and an
integrated spoiler on the deck lid. The change made the C280 look more
aggressive to match its powerplant.

And the new V6 is a sweet engine. It is a single overhead cam, three valve/twin
spark 2.8-liter V6 that pumps out 194-horsepower. While the previous inline six
also produces 194- horsepower, it has a more narrow torque band. The V6 produces
195 lbs. ft. of peak torque from 3,000 to 4,600 rpm.

With three-valve technology, this engine has another benefit - it reduces
emissions dramatically. Mercedes-Benz says emissions are reduced by over 40
percent particularly during the warm-up stage, before the catalytic converter
begins to operate.

The engine is married to a five-speed automatic transmission and the combination
is impressive. The C280 with the new engine goes from zero-to-60 mph in 8.0
seconds. I was impressed with the way the C280 smoothly handles all driving
situations from merging to passing.

As with any Mercedes-Benz, the ride is firm, which I favor. The C280 has a
double wishbone front suspension and a multi-link layout in the rear. However,
with the Sport package, the suspension is tweaked for performance. Tires with
the package are larger 205/55R16 radials mounted on seven-inch aluminum alloy
wheels. Brakes are four-wheel discs with an anti-lock braking system. Also
included is traction control and Mercedes-Benz Brake Assist system which helps
reduce stopping distances in panic stops. Steering is a power assisted
recirculating ball.

Inside, the C280 Sport is designed for the driver. Visibility is very good in
all directions. Controls are logically positioned. The firm sport seats give
excellent support. With the Sport package also comes a new sport steering wheel
and ivory gauges which enhances readability.

Safety also is a prime mover at Mercedes-Benz consequently, the C280 is equipped
with both front and side impact air bags. The "BabySmart' system which
recognizes a child safety seat and disconnects the front passenger air bag also
is included. However, with this system a compatible child seat must be used.
It's available at Mercedes-Benz dealers.

Standard comfort and convenience features include a climate control system, 10
way adjustable power seats, power windows, mirrors and door locks and an eight
speaker Bose sound system with cassette player among other items.

Other options, in addition to the sport package, were a glass sunroof ($1,100),
special paint ($600), and an integrated mobile telephone and CD changer
($1,495). Total MSRP for the C280 Sport with delivery was $40,090.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               18 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 30, 1998, Monday

BILL CLINTON, TAX-CUTTER?

BYLINE: ROBERT D. NOVAK

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 672 words


A LL last week, I was besieged by this question: What in the world did you and
Bill Clinton say to each other when seated together for four hours on the dais
at the Gridiron Club dinner? The answer: mostly small talk - with one exception.
The president said he agreed with me that the federal payroll tax is a
regressive outrage that should be reformed.

One day earlier, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin responded in a different tone
when I asked whether ordinary wage-earners are overtaxed by the FICA payroll
deductions that finance Social Security. He replied that the "federal tax burden
for the median family is lower than it's been anytime in the last 20 years."
That was a pretty definitive "no."

Rubin's caution is customary among government officials and politicians who are
asked about the payroll tax. Its evil cannot be diluted without addressing the
political untouchable of Social Security reform. But that climate will change if
President Clinton is now willing to press for the most significant tax reduction
since the Reagan tax cuts of 1981.

Washington's Gridiron Club was formed 113 years ago partly to foster better
relations between the press and politicians. Thanks to seniority, I am this
year's Gridiron president and so would sit beside the president at the annual
white-tie-and-tails dinner if he decided to attend. Despite predictions to the
contrary, Clinton did come, and acted as though he enjoyed the mild satire
directed against him.

I was not about to pose embarrassing questions, and the president did not
lecture me on the error of my right-wing extremism. But late in the evening
March 21, I told him that young people whom I often address are surprised and
angry when they discover the havoc wrought by FICA on their first paychecks. Had
he read Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan's Harvard speech of March 16? The senator
proposed to cut the payroll tax from 12.4 percent to 10.4 percent (returning
$800 billion to Americans over the next decade) as part of a plan to save Social
Security.

The president did not seem familiar with Moynihan's latest plan but remembered
that in 1989 the senator had proposed payroll tax cuts. Except for then House
Democratic Whip William Gray, Moynihan got no support from either party. But the
president told me he is repelled by the regressive nature of the tax, which is
hardest on lower-wage workers and takes more money from 80 percent of American
taxpayers than the progressive income tax.

Sen. John Ashcroft, a Republican presidential hopeful, for two years has pushed
for the income-tax deductibility of payroll taxes but would not reduce FICA
rates. Rival flat-tax and sales-tax reforms pushed by GOP members of Congress,
incredibly, leave the payroll tax untouched. Liberal dogma has prevented
Democrats from acting.

Democratic skeptics caution not to make too much of what the president, charming
and congenial, says in the midst of a festive evening. Certainly, he has yet to
encourage Moynihan, who after sending his Harvard speech to the White House
received a kind, handwritten note from Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, saying
this is something to be seriously considered in the next Congress.

Moynihan's plan deserves consideration now. It contains bitter medicine -
reducing increases in Social Security benefits, increasing income taxes and
raising the amount of income subject to the payroll tax. But it also inaugurates
voluntary personal savings accounts that workers could finance with their
reduced payroll tax. What Moynihan calls the "magic of compound interest" could
save Social Security.

Moynihan fears the Clinton administration is intimidated by "veto groups" led by
the American Association of Retired Persons that may kill the system they
profess to protect. "The administration should have had a plan up here to be the
center part of the year-long discussion that the president proposed," the
senator said on CNN's "Evans & Novak" over the weekend. "They didn't. We did."
Will Bill Clinton now make amends?

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               19 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 17, 1998, Sunday

A THRIFTY SURVIVOR
 CARVER BANK'S PREZ GOT THE THRIVING THRIFT THROUGH SOME TOUGH TIMES

BYLINE: PETER SLATIN

SECTION: Business; Pg. 070

LENGTH: 1250 words


Personal profile

Name:

Thomas Clark

Age:54

Personal:

Married, 2 grandchildren

Lives:White Plains

Education:

MBA Canisius College

Career:

Asst. treasurer, Buffalo Savings Bank; deputy superintendent, State Banking
Dept., 1976-95; CEO & president, Carver Federal Savings, 1995 to present.

TOM Clark was between a rock and a hard place.

It was February 1995, and the brand-new CEO of Carver Federal Savings Bank found
himself confronted with a newly public, 47-year-old institution whose stock was
in the toilet.

On the other hand, its loyal customers were change-averse. Around him and
Carver, the banking world was beginning to pick up speed on the road to massive
consolidation, which led six months later to the $26-billion merger of Chase
Manhattan and Chemical, and just last month to the $70 billion
Citicorp-Travelers union.

Carver, a federally chartered thrift that today has $436 million in total
assets, was ripe for the picking - if anyone wanted it, or could even find it.

A fire at its West 125th Street headquarters had forced the bank to split
operations between another Harlem building and a branch in East New York,
Brooklyn, and to bus customers from Lenox Avenue and 125th Street to its closest
branch, at Eighth Avenue and 23rd Street in Chelsea.

The stock had dropped from an IPO price of 10 to 6, against a book value at the
time of around $13 a share.

Things are a bit different now, says Clark, who fended off a hostile takeover
from a mystery bidder in 1996. "I look at Carver as an acquirer. There's an
opportunity for us out there, and we already know it," Clark says.

In the next year, he predicts, "You'll see us making an offer to acquire an
institution or institutions. And there are opportunities to purchase some
decent-size branches in the area as well."

Getting to this point - of targeting rather than just fending off others - has
not been easy.

"We had to really restructure," Clark recalls in a conference room next to his
fourth-floor office, at the bank's rebuilt headquarters at 75 W. 125th St.

"The computer system was archaic, there was no semblance of lines of authority,
there was no training - absolutely none - and no consistent meetings with
officers in the bank. The only thing we didn't have was major dishonesty.

"I never second-guessed my coming here," continues Clark. "It was a dream come
true, but the rebuilding effort has been monumental."

Despite Clark's success in righting the bank - the stock price is now hovering
around $15 a share - installing a new board and vastly increasing its mortgage
lending program, from 11 percent to 62 percent of its $436 million of total
assets, he still has to deal with an impatient constituency.

Some well-placed officials in the area, who asked not to be identified, said the
bank has moved much too cautiously in catching up to the community's needs. And
they point to an entrenched staff role still attached to the era of Clark's
predecessor, Richard Green, who led the bank for a quarter-century.

"Their loan office is just unresponsive," says one, who suggests bluntly that
house-cleaning is in order.

Clark responds that the question of bringing bank employees up to speed - he did
bring in his own attorney, Ray Bruce, from the state Banking Department, as well
as some examiners - has more to do with training and leadership than restaffing.

He's cleaned house before, though. A native of working-class Lackawanna, near
Buffalo, Clark worked in the early '70s as a development officer for the Buffalo
Savings Bank.

After rising to the post of assistant treasurer, in 1976 he was invited to
become the first African-American deputy superintendent of the New York State
Banking Department, where he was placed in charge of consumer relations -
overseeing dealings between customers and the banks that then had $1.5 trillion
in assets.

But in the early '80s, State Banking Superintendent Muriel Siebert tapped him to
clean up the city's then-unclean municipal credit union.

"That gave me my first real opportunity to run a financial institution," says
Clark, adding that it was also "a real opportunity to learn what not to do."

Clark went after the cleanup with a force of 10 examiners. He says he got a good
look at the "nature of banking," as he went about cleaning up featherbedding and
closing windows out of which money was being tossed. He even had his life
threatened. At the end, he says, "I wanted to stay. But when you go in as a
hatchet man, that's not always the best idea."

So he returned to the State Banking Department, and for the eight years before
he joined Carver in 1995, he served as deputy superintendent and secretary to
the state's powerful Banking Board. He was responsible for everything from
licensing check-cashing businesses and mortgage banks to chartering foreign
banks.

Ironically, in 1948's booming post-World War II New York City, the same state
office at which Clark was to serve for 18 years turned down Carver's founders
when they sought a bank charter.

"They literally laughed them out of there," Carver states flatly. "They said you
people must be kidding yourselves. So they went to Washington and got a federal
charter instead."

Now, even as the U.S. Congress reviews federal banking rules, Clark is
maneuvering to move Carver forward under whatever scenario evolves. Carver is
set to unveil a new small-business lending program this Wednesday. Clark would
not describe the program other than to say it will be "very dynamic" and that
the Small Business Administration will play a major role.

The bank is also readying a $3.5 million home re-investment program for troubled
Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn in partnership with AllState Insurance.

In Harlem, say Clark and others familiar with the program, Carver and the
Community Preservation Corporation are funding a purchase and rehabilitation
program for the historic brownstones that line many streets.

The bank, which has traditionally served its low-to-moderate income base, is
reaching out to a growing middle class, says Carver, one that is returning to
the city.

"We're an urban community development bank," says Clark proudly. "You'll see
less and less of an emphasis on the ethnic connotation of Carver. The
demographics of the markets we're in are changing."

Carver is also active in the current hot commercial climate. The bank holds the
$6-million mortgage on 55 W. 125th Street, the corridor's only private modern
office building. Cushman & Wakefield has been quietly marketing the
230,000-square-foot 1974 building for the past six weeks for its owner,
Pastreich Realty.

Carver's strongest ties to the African-American community lie in its role as the
primary lender to churches, such as Abyssinian Baptist Church or Calvary Baptist
Church. Says Clark, "Where the community was abandoned," says Clark, "church
building has been a great catalyst for the turnaround."

Carver is watching efforts at closing some $64 million in construction financing
for Harlem USA a few blocks west. Although Chase is the lead bank, Carver is
likely to become involved in financing the entertainment/retail project as well.

"For Chase this is Community Reinvestment Act lending," he said, referring to a
federal program to spur bank lending in inner-city neighborhoods. "For us this
is what we do. These are our depositors' dollars, and we should be involved
because this is where we've been for almost 50 years."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               20 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 28, 1998, Thursday

O'DONNELL MUST GO; QB CONTROVERSY COULD WRECK JETS

BYLINE: STEVE SERBY

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 075

LENGTH: 1013 words


NOTHING has changed since the end of the season, but something had better change
before the start of next season.

Glenn Foley is Bill Parcells' idea of a quarterback.

Neil O'Donnell is Parcells' idea of a veteran backup quarterback.

To be fair to Foley, to be fair to his team, Parcells the general manager has to
trade O'Donnell.

It would even be fair to O'Donnell, who still thinks of himself as the
quarterback who led the Steelers to the Super Bowl two years ago but must
recognize he would need something short of a miracle to win any fair and open
quarterback competition against Foley.

O'Donnell would be better off with a coach who appreciates him and Parcells
would be better off with a backup quarterback making less money and less noise
about Gimme The Damn Ball.

There is too much baggage over there at Weeb Ewbank Hall.

It can't go on like this.

History tells us that Parcells ultimately always does whatever is in the best
interest of his team.

An entire summer, and maybe even fall, of Glenn versus Neil, or Neil versus
Glenn, would not be in the best interest of a developing team that has
progressed to somewhere between emotionally fragile and hardened and mature.

We have seen time and again how destructive and divisive and these Quarterback
Controversies can be. Jet observers might want to ask Walt Michaels and Richard
Todd and Matt Robinson about that.

They take on a tabloid life of their own, and there is no guarantee that even
the full force of Parcells' iron will would be able to put out the fire.

It would have been interesting to see how Parcells would have handled Phil Simms
versus Jeff Hostetler, but if you remember he left that 1991 brouhaha for Ray
Handley, one of the cruelest jokes we have ever witnessed around here.

Parcells made this uncomfortable quarterback bed but Foley and O'Donnell
shouldn't be asked to sleep in it again.

The Jets were too caught up in their rise from the rubble of The Losing Syndrome
last October to really care who lined up behind center.

It looks like a three-team race in the AFC East and now that the Jets should be
able to view themselves as one of the three teams, they need to know who their
jockey is.

As much as Kent Graham wants to play over in East Rutherford, Jim Fassel has
made it perfectly clear that Danny Kanell is The Man.

Parcells is the man in the muddle right now because he devalues O'Donnell the
second he announces that Foley is the starter.

Considering Foley's injury history, it would be foolish for Parcells to simply
cut O'Donnell, even if the quarterback agreed to a significant paycut of his
$4.25 million salary, which he won't, soon after June 1, without extracting
anything in return, and it would be just as foolish for Parcells to head into
the regular season with Ray Lucas and Chuck Clements as his backups.

It is a dangerous poker game Parcells is playing here, because there now exists
the real possibility of a long, hot summer and maybe even a long, cold fall of
Glenn versus Neil and Neil versus Glenn at Hofstra, at least until someone
else's starting quarterback goes down in a heap, or John Elway retires. At which
point someone else becomes as desperate for O'Donnell as Leon Hess, Steve Gutman
and Rich Kotite were when they were merrily opening the exit door for Boomer
Esiason. In the meantime, O'Donnell serves as an expensive security blanket, and
the best Parcells can hope to do is bottom feed for say a John Friesz, a Steve
Beuerlein, a Rick Mirer, maybe explore Kerry Collins since Dom Capers likes
O'Donnell.

Both Parcells and O'Donnell put out the communique yesterday following their
long-awaited summit that they were both on the same page, but most everyone
knows the page happens to come from Keyshawn Johnson's book.

While the prideful O'Donnell is too much competitor to accept the current
climate that Parcells has orchestrated by keeping him away from the complex and
thereby making him a virtual stranger in his own locker room, Foley somehow
bites his tongue and waits eagerly for the opportunity of his lifetime. While
O'Donnell says he expects to be the starter, Foley ingratiates himself even more
to Parcells with his response.

"You gotta earn the job," Foley said. He was standing at his locker so engulfed
by cameras and microphones and notebooks you would have thought Mike Piazza had
shown up. "You gotta do it on the field," Foley also said. "I can sit here and
give you guys all the juice you want; you gotta go out and perform."

He happens to have a head coach who is hardly ready to drive him to Canton. As
much as he loves Foley's John Wayne moxie, Parcells keeps reminding everyone:
"He's got a lot to prove though; there isn't any doubt about that." Foley's got
to prove he can take a licking and keep on ticking, and that's why he's built up
his legs and gone from 210 to 225 pounds. Foley strapped on a black Donjoy knee
brace just for this minicamp but said: "The weight's good. I'm back in one
piece."

Foley yelled "Hey Meat," across the locker room at guard Matt O'Dwyer. In
Parcells' eyes, Foley's edge on O'Donnell isn't only on the field; he has
developed a camaraderie with his teammates that all quarterbacks who are leaders
absolutely must have. O'Donnell's standing has been compromised further by being
out of sight and out of mind since December. Foley privately believes he has
overtaken O'Donnell and is hardly afraid of a showdown.

"If you play better football, you should play," Foley said. "If you play better
than the guy at your position, you should play."

He is perfect for New York. "I love it; I absolutely love it," Foley said.
"There's no relaxing. There's no time for slipups. If you slip up, someone's
gonna see you. Someone's gonna be there to take your job."

He knows exactly what Parcells wants from his quarterback. "Get the ball in the
end zone, plain and simple," Foley said. "Get the ball in the end zone and win
football games." One job, two quarterbacks who want it again. Enough Glenn
versus Neil and Neil versus Glenn, please.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               21 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              June 8, 1998, Monday

THE EDUCATION OF PETER VALLONE; HIS CLEVEREST CAMPAIGN MOVES ARE TURNING INTO
HUGE BLUNDERS

BYLINE: BOB McMANUS

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 021

LENGTH: 960 words


A baseball came off Paul O'Neill's bat in a high lazy arc at Yankee Stadium one
week ago tonight, and it took forever to drift to the not-so-cheap seats behind
third base. Finally the ball fell into the hands of a young man who seemed
almost as pleased with his trophy as he was with the little boy to whom he
proudly presented it.

But Daddy's big-as-the-Brooklyn-Bridge grin froze solid when the pre-schooler
smiled widely himself - and tossed the ball right back onto the field.

Of such events are family legends born (the poor kid's wedding guests are going
to hear about "The Night He Threw The Baseball Back"), though they happen rarely
enough these days. Last Monday night at the stadium, you could have fired a
cannon into the upper deck and not hit anybody. All week long, actually.

The Yankees are on a pace for the best won-lost record in the history of
major-league baseball, and the team's hovering somewhere between sixth place and
total disgrace in American League attendance. Even the recent Red Sox series
didn't sell out. Is it any wonder that George Steinbrenner has grown impatient
with his historic venue?

So there's no mystery as to the future of Yankee Stadium: The numbers speak for
themselves, sadly but eloquently.

Steinbrenner, ultimately, is going to have to make a convincing case for taking
his team to Manhattan - if that's where it is to end up. The task could be
rendered prohibitively difficult by a subtle but unavoidable fact: The House
That Ruth Built figures prominently in the family legend of virtually every real
Yankee fan in New York City.

Of which there are a lot, many of them voters.

Plus there are even more folks whose interest in baseball derives solely from
the desire that it not be played on the West Side of Manhattan.

They vote, too.

Enter Peter Vallone, the term-limited speaker of the New York City Council, who
hopes to ride the stadium issue into the executive mansion in Albany.

Vallone's prospects in this adventure reside somewhere between slim and grim.
For starters, the substantially underfunded speaker first must win the
Democratic primary on Sept. 15 - and it is not at all clear that he can do this.

Thus Yankee Stadium, an emotive subject under any circumstances, is a
made-to-order issue for Vallone. He needs to pump up his city support, and how
better to do this than to mobilize New Yorkers who hate George Steinbrenner or
change of any sort (or both)?

But campaign strategies in tough races can have very real public-policy
consequences. This seems so far to have eluded Vallone - which is
understandable, in a way. He hasn't been in a contested election for a very long
time.

Right now, though, he's getting an education. Boy, is he ever.

Take taxes: Central to Vallone's early campaign was his pledge, easily
redeemable, to block renewal of an income-tax surcharge that Mayor Giuliani
wants to keep.

This stance represented good politics (it would paint the would-be governor as a
tax-cutter upstate) and sound policy (city dwellers need every tax break they
can get). How often does that happen?

But it was risky business. If Vallone were to lose to the mayor of New York City
on so elemental an issue, it would reflect badly on his ability, as governor, to
protect upstate interests in any future conflict with the city. This, in turn,
would substantially dampen his chances in a statewide race.

As it's beginning to turn out, however, Vallone will be lucky to get clear of
his battle with Giuliani even that lightly.

On Friday, the City Council did indeed pass a budget that causes the income-tax
surcharge to expire, as the speaker promised. But it is so sloppily constructed
that it contains the seeds of a City Charter-mandated property-tax increase.
This couldn't have been the outcome Vallone envisioned when he picked the fight
in the first place.

Truth be told, the income-tax surcharge isn't all that big a concern in Queens -
the speaker's base - or elsewhere in the outer boroughs. But property taxes, as
an issue, are simply toxic. Plus, it was upstate and suburban intolerance of
inexorably rising real-estate levies that created the climate that drove Mario
Cuomo from office in 1994.

So here stands Peter Vallone, who apparently didn't read that part of the
Charter which governs such matters. (Or who did, but thought that Rudy Giuliani
wouldn't.) Vallone is poised to mount a campaign for state-wide office after
having colluded in a real-estate tax increase in New York City. Better that he
should pour a gallon of gasoline over his head and light a match.

By now, the speaker probably understands what all his cleverness stands to cost
him. This would account for the deer-caught-in-headlights cast to his eyes
during a post-budget press conference Friday afternoon.

Certainly there's going to be a lot of lawyering done before the a final budget
is adopted. And there's still plenty of time for a negotiated settlement - three
full weeks, in fact.

But Giuliani has made it clear that any such outcome must include a promise by
Vallone to stand down on Yankee relocation. The mayor wants that matter decided
on its merits - and while he's quite correct in this regard, the speaker seems
disinclined to compromise.

Such is his right. But if he persists, he puts more at risk than his
gubernatorial aspirations: Peter Vallone has had an estimable career; what a
pity if he should be remembered only as the man whose miscalculations drove the
New York Yankees out of town.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'The City Council speaker is poised to mount a campaign for statewide
office after having colluded in a real-estate tax increase in New York City.
Better that he should pour a gallon of gasoline over his head and light a
match.'

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               22 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             July 2, 1998, Thursday

CLINTON, IN CHINA, PUTS THE FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: ANDY SOLTIS

SECTION: News; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 369 words


President Clinton left teeming Shanghai today for the cloud-shrouded mountains
of Guilin after warning Chinese leaders their nation will soon replace the
United States as the world's top producer of greenhouse gases.

Clinton, heading toward the end of his nine-day trip, said one of the purposes
of this mission will be U.S.-China cooperation to clean up the environment.

"Ten years from now, people will look back and say that's one of the biggest
things they did," the president said yesterday of his meetings with President
Jiang Zemin and other Chinese leaders.

But Clinton urged the Chinese to sharply expand their environmental-protection
efforts to avert a 21st-century pollution crisis.

"Respiratory illness from air pollution is now China's No. 1 health problem," he
told a group of U.S. businessmen in Shanghai.

"Every major body of water is polluted. The water table is dropping all over the
country.

"China is about to assume the unfortunate distinction of replacing the United
States as the largest emitter of greenhouse gases that are dangerously warming
our plant."

Clinton said it was wrong to believe "that there is an iron, unbreakable link
between economic growth and industrial-age energy practices."

"It is simply not true," Clinton said.

The Chinese continued to give the president extraordinary media access.

Clinton appeared in a taped interview on state TV yesterday, his third broadcast
appearance this week.

"One big goal of this trip for me was to have the American people learn more
about China and the Chinese people learn more about America," he told an
interviewer.

"America has this role, which is temporary - it won't last forever - as the only
superpower in the world," he said in the interview.

Clinton said the world "needs a leader, but not in the sense of one country
telling everyone else what to do."

Clinton was scheduled to stop in picturesque Guilin today for a river-boat ride
before heading to his final stop on the trip, Hong Kong, which yesterday marked
the first anniversary of its transfer from British to Chinese hands.


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Respiratory illness from air pollution is now China's No. 1 health
problem." PRESIDENT CLINTON

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               23 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              July 5, 1998, Sunday

HIRED GUNS RACES COULD TURN IF GMS PULL TRIGGER

BYLINE: TOM KEEGAN

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 089

LENGTH: 1190 words


NON-CONTENDERS typically use the All-Star break to look at themselves
realistically, then decide to begin dumping salaries or stockpiling prospects,
or both if lucky.

The line between contenders and also-rans seldom is as clearly drawn by
midseason as this year in the American League. The NL has more clubs involved.

In the AL, the Yankees, Red Sox, Blue Jays, Indians, Angels and Rangers eye the
postseason and the rest eye 1999. In the NL, every club but the Expos, Marlins,
Pirates, Reds, Rockies and Diamondbacks still aims for postseason.

A look at a baker's dozen of potential hired guns who could influence pennant
races:

1. Randy Johnson - A complicated ownership situation that does not have one man
capable of bossing around all others, sort of like the Yankees, proved undoing
of Big Unit-to-Dodgers deal. As Mariners continue to slide they will come to
their senses and deal large lefty. Dodgers, under GM Tommy Lasorda, remain
interested. Might Red Sox be interested in pairing Big Unit with Pedro Martinez?

2. Roberto Alomar - Once symbol of ballplayer arrogance for spitting in the face
of umpire John Hirschbeck, Alomar now is symbol of non-hustle for the
underachieving Orioles. Still, he is the league's best second baseman and has
high trade value. Indians lead Mets as most likely to land impending free agent.

3. Jeff Shaw - Reds closer is young and cheap, so why trade him? Because his
value is so high and he could bring such an attractive package of prospects in
return, and because Reds are confident Danny Graves can close. Braves want Shaw.
Badly.

4. Dante Bichette - Rockie slugger in final year of contract has powerful
right-handed bat that could boost pennant hopes of Giants, Mets and Red Sox,
though Boston is centering on starting pitching at moment. Mets won't look in
this direction unless Todd Hundley outfield experiment fails. Ellis Burks also
is on block.

5. Rafael Palmeiro - He batted .357 with 12 home runs, 29 RBIs and a .739
slugging percentage in month of June. List of clubs calling the Orioles about
him are, envelope please ... the envelope is empty. No contending team is in
market for a first baseman or designated hitter, but injuries create needs, and
Palmeiro would be huge acquisition. Palmeiro wants to return to Texas, but as of
yet Rangers haven't shown strong interest.

6. Pete Harnisch - Red Sox, Rangers, Blue Jays among contenders in search of
starting pitcher. Before making him available, Reds are talking about contract
extension to see if they can afford him and build rotation around him. Harnisch
makes only $300,000 this season. Wouldn't you like to make only $300,000 some
year?

7. Dean Palmer - Royal third baseman having another big year at the plate.
Rangers aren't yet interested in bringing him back to Texas, but that could
change.

8. Kenny Rogers - A's GM Billy Beane said he would like to build around Rogers,
but if a club is willing to overlook left-hander's difficulty dealing with
pressure situations and has young talent to offer, he could be acquired.

9. Edgar Renteria - Padres inquired about Barry Larkin but didn't like asking
price and are more interested in waiting until closer to July 31 trading
deadline in anticipation of Marlin shortstop becoming available.

10. Rick Aguilera - Twins closer isn't at top of Braves' wish list, but he's on
it. Twins also have Bob Tewksbury, but interest is light.

11. Mark Leiter - Now that Ricky Bottalico has been activated, Phillies could
deal Leiter to Braves, who have called about him. Angels also could use him as
setup man.

12. Jamie Moyer - Finesse lefty who always looks better in box score than on
scouting reports is 35-14 the past three seasons. Ranger manager Johnny Oates
and general manager Doug Melvin know and like Moyer from their days together in
Baltimore. Mariner reliever Mike Timlin also is trade bait to be dangled for
many clubs seeking bullpen help.

13. Rickey Henderson - Wake up, Mets, and ignore .238 batting average. Rickey's
.365 on-base percentage would rank third to John Olerud and Mike Piazza in Met
lineup, and his 53 runs and 35 stolen bases would easily lead team. They need
leadoff man and Rickey wouldn't mind ending his career in a pennant race in New
York, a climate sure to bring out remaining talent. Pirates' base-stealing,
error-prone second baseman Tony Womack is another possible fit for Mets. I T'S
not as if the Yankees miss him or anyone else, but the one-year anniversary
passed this week of the Padres' trading of Greg Vaughn to the Yankees for
Rogers. George Steinbrenner killed the deal based on a physical examination that
revealed shoulder problems that never were a secret in the first place.

Reversal of deal worked out well for everyone involved. Vaughn, an NL All-Star,
was batting .294 with 28 homers and 71 RBIs heading into the weekend. Rogers,
dealt to the A's for Scott Brosius, is Oakland's ace and thriving outside the
spotlight's glare. Brosius, an AL All-Star, has been the league's best third
baseman.

"I don't even want to think where we'd be without him this year," Tony Gwynn
said. "I know this, we wouldn't be in first place. We wouldn't even be close to
first place. We'd be buried in the pack. My God, he's saved us." ...

General managers with reason to feel antsy during All-Star break include
Colorado's Bob Gebhard and Seattle's Woody Woodward, whose job performances have
been discussed at cocktail parties with increasing regularity by their bosses.
Both might make it to the end of season, but they best buy their winter coats
today, while still drawing paychecks. ...

Best player in the blockbuster deal between Dodgers and Marlins since it was
made has been Gary Sheffield, whose numbers in first 40 games with
pitching-starved Dodgers were .333, seven home runs, 30 RBIs. ...

Red manager Jack McKeon, an old-time baseball guy who counts Bobby Valentine as
a friend and respects him as a baseball man, doesn't share Valentine's
fascination with the internet and all the baseball information it holds.

"I may have worked a lot in California, but I'm no surfer, neither on the water
nor on the internet," McKeon said. ...

Joe Torre's duties as manager of the Yankees leave him precious little time to
spend on the golf course. Still, he can teach the game. After Torre imparted the
following tip, Chin Music trimmed the personal best from 102 to 94 at the home
course: "Hold your driver upside down and swing it 'at an imaginary ball_. If
you hear the whoosh sound at the point of contact where ball would be teed,
you're swinging right. If you hear it before that, you're swinging wrong."

We're even now because I shared a managing tip with Torre before the opening of
this record-challenging season - an insight that led to the Yankees' remarkable
first half: "Just keep doing it like you're doing it, Joe."

By the way, insomniacs seeking cure can write The Post, Attn: Chin Music, for
shot-by-shot details of record round.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: RANDY JOHNSON Dodgers still interested.
RICKEY HENDERSON Would fit with Mets.ROBERTO ALOMAR Eyed by Indians.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               24 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            July 16, 1998, Thursday

MOGUL IN THE MAKING

BYLINE: NEAL TRAVIS

SECTION: Neal Travis' New York; Pg. 009

LENGTH: 89 words


WHILE veteran news anchor Ernie Anastos is perfectly happy at WWOR/Ch. 9, he's
now in the position to tell his bosses to take the job and shove it if the
climate changes.

Anastos is paying $900,000 for WJKE-FM in upstate Saratoga Springs. He's putting
a manager into the radio station for now, but will be a hands-on owner.

He likes the idea of being involved in a small market. "Tip O'Neill used to say
that all politics is local," Anastos tells Broadcasting & Cable magazine. "I
believe that all broadcasting is local."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               25 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 10, 1998, Monday

IT'S GRAND TOURING IN THE ; MERCEDES-BENZ S500

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 052

LENGTH: 622 words


A few weeks ago, I took a brief respite from sowing my journalistic fields and
visited East Hampton. I needed time off to recharge my batteries and thought
this town would be perfect. Fear not, I won't put you through a "what I did on
my summer vacation' essay, though I will note I did miss the Presidential visit.
Since I wasn't on any invitation lists, much less could I afford the price of
admission, I wasn't upset.

However, anytime I plan to take a few days off, scheduling comes into play. I
can't just up and leave. I have to clear my desk and check my calendar twice.
Good thing I did. For in the calendar I noticed that my test steed for the East
Hampton week was a 1999 Mercedes-Benz S500 Grand Edition. That was perfect.
Visiting a very chic area traveling in a limited edition Mercedes was all a car
guy could ask for.

Only 600 Grand Edition S500s are slated to be built. These are set apart from
their S500 siblings by wider 18-inch AMG monoblock wheels, 255/45/18 tires and
striking Obsidian Black paint. The interior also is unique with Artline black
wood trim and softer Parchment leather. Also, there are rear and side window
shades, an integrated portable phone and CD changer, illuminated door sills and
special floor mats. The Grand Edition is eye catching and even in what I
consider "Mercedes country' it stands out. The Grand Edition carries a $88,540
base MSRP.

The S500 Grand Edition is a supreme grand tourer that embodies all the fine
characteristics of a superior road machine. A high compliment that might be
exaggerated? Not at all. One day behind the wheel convinced me and a week made
me a true believer.

Riding on a 123.6-inch wheelbase, the big S500 Grand Edition gets its power from
a 5.0-liter (303 cu.in.), DOHC, 32-valve V8 that delivers 315 horsepower. The
engine is connected to a five-speed automatic transmission. This powerplant
propels the 4,700 pound S500 smoothly from zero to 60 mph in 7.2 seconds. Gear
changes are imperceptible. The engine doesn't scream, but utters the confident
tones of a leader.

With its firm, comfortable, ride the S500 makes any type of driving a pleasure.
It's great for long trips, or short jaunts. The S500 is equipped with four-wheel
independent suspension. Brakes are four-wheel discs with an anti-lock braking
system. Steering is power recirculating ball. Traction control, or
automatic-slip control as Mercedes calls it, is standard. The wheels and tires I
discussed.

Whether this car is cruising at highway speed or taking tight curves, the S500
is a true thoroughbred. It's a car driver's will love. Driving the S500 takes
motoring to another level. Inside the spacious cabin, there's plenty of room for
five to stretch out and enjoy the ride. There's also plenty of room to carry all
the necessities for a summer trip. I found out first hand how much can fit into
the 15.6 cu.ft. trunk.

Front and side impact air bags are standard. Visibility is excellent in all
directions. The 12-way power leather seats coddle the driver and provide
excellent support. All controls are conveniently positioned for the driver.

Naturally, the S500 has all the luxury features one expects from Mercedes-Benz.
The list of standard amenities is long, including dual zone automatic climate
control, remote locking system, Bose audio system, power sliding glass sunroof,
heated front and rear seats, cruise control and other power features. It's about
as complete a package available. There were no options on the S500 Grand
Edition. The only extra charge beside delivery was the $1,700 gas guzzler tax
which brought the total MSRP to $90,835. The S500 makes grand touring an art
form. It's a exceptional machine and makes driving a pure joy.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               26 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 14, 1998, Friday

BILL CLINTON'S MORAL AUTHORITY: A DICK MORRIS OXYMORON?

SECTION: Letters@nypost.com; Pg. 026

LENGTH: 234 words


Dick Morris ("Clinton Loses His Moral Authority," Post Opinion, Aug. 11) is
living on the edge of la-la land. Bill Clinton was wonderful but has now lost
moral authority, an authority "finally vested in him by a shaken country in the
aftermath of the Oklahoma City tragedy"?

I thought morality was established through a person's inner bearing, not by
theatrics in the face of tragedy.

The problem with Clinton and Morris is their superficiality. These men have no
moral bearing. Clinton is a clever thug and Morris is a sychopant. Chicken
Little Gore is clucking around raising money via his new-age religion,
environmentalism. Is this morality or age-old self preservation?

According to Morris, we want to hear about global warming and climate change
from a new moral leader. How many billions of dollars will it take this moral
leader to thwart the will of God?Francis SpauldingManhattan

Here's a News Flash for Dick Morris: Of course Bill Clinton faces a lack of
moral confidence from the American public. I think the first clue came from Mr.
Morris' public escapades.

The truth is that Clinton couldn't live up to the image his handlers made up for
him. He couldn't practice what he preached. Bill Clinton was always something
other than what he made himself out to be.

"As a man thinketh, in his heart, so is he" could not be more true.David
HopkinsConcord, Calif. (via e-mail)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               27 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           September 21, 1998, Monday

SOLARA - THE ALL NEW SPORT COUPE FROM TOYOTA

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 050

LENGTH: 633 words


TOYOTA had a mission. It wanted a car to appeal to the sport specialty segment.
It's a growing market and Toyota is particularly interested in those people who
are entering their earning years, who want a sports car but needed more room.
They also may be free of commitments they previously had. In other words, the
kids have moved out, or at least for the time being.

It's a large market and it's expected to grow. The company says that as a third
of this market will be "empty nest' boomers and nearly 1.5 million of this group
enter the market every year.

The people in this group want to do something for themselves. They've earned it.
Many want a sports car, so enter the Solara. Actually, it's the Camry Solara.
It's a sports coupe with a difference.

The Camry Solara now in showrooms, can be obtained in two trim levels, SE and
SLE. As the name indicated, it's based on the Camry platform. Though it is a
Camry with big differences. Obviously, the Camry suits the needs of the sedan
market in stellar fashion. The Solara is a different breed.

This sports coupe was styled by Toyota's CALTY Design Center in Newport Beach,
CA and the engineering shared between Toyota Engineering in Japan and the Toyota
Technical Center in Ann Arbor, MI.

My silver stream opal with gray leather interior Solara SLE came with a $24,988
base MSRP. It's a aerodynamic coupe that has refined, conservative lines. Toyota
wanted Solara's image to be mature and controlled and it succeeded.

Within the two trim levels, two engine choices are available. The SE can be had
with either a 2.2-liter, DOHC, 135-horsepower four-cylinder engine or a
3.0-liter, DOHC, 24-valve, 200-horsepower V6. In SE trim either engine can be
mated to a manual or automatic gearbox. The SLE comes with the V6 and with the
four-speed automatic only.

This powertrain combination is strong. The V6 is a smooth engine and
acceleration is very good. It's passing and cruising capability also is very
good.

Toyota wanted the Solara to be stiffer than the Camry sedan consequently it made
adjustments to the body structure and suspension. I'm not going to dwell on the
changes, suffice tO say the engineers accomplished their goal.

The ride is firm while being comfortable. Handling is also sharp. The Solara is
equipped with a four-wheel independent suspension with stabilizer bars on both
ends. Steering is a redesigned power rack-and-pinion unit. Brakes are four-wheel
discs with standard ABS. Tires are Firestone P205/65R15 radials mounted on
aluminum alloy wheels. The test car also had optional ($300) traction control.

With the adjustments to the structure, suspension and steering, the Solara is a
very capable performer. Control is solid through tight curves and the steering
is precise with very good feedback.

The Solara's interior is spacious and tastefully trimmed in faux wood grain.
Visibility is very good and the eight-way power leather seats are supportive.
Controls are logically positioned. I particularly liked the large buttons and
dials on the audio and H/VAC systems. The analog gauges are also large and very
readable.

One safety note, this car had optional ($250) driver and side impact air bags as
well as the standard dual front air bags. That's an option worth selecting.

The Solara SLE's standard equipment list is long. Included in the package is a
climate control system, cruise control, power windows, mirrors and door locks
with keyless entry, JBL audio system with eight speakers and cassette and CD
player as well as the features I mentioned. Other options were a power moonroof
($900) and a carpet/cargo mat set ($166). Total MSRP with delivery was $27,087.

Toyota's Camry Solara is a very competent sports coupe. It's a car with style
and performance that's appealing.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               28 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            October 25, 1998, Sunday

TINA'S TALK-Y NEW MAG GETS NAME

BYLINE: KEITH J KELLY

SECTION: Business; Pg. 063

LENGTH: 991 words


FORMER New Yorker editor Tina Brown hopes the name of her new Disney-backed
magazine will quickly become the talk of the town.

We're going to call the magazine Talk and the company Talk Media, Tina tells
Media Ink, confirming the official name after a number of rumored titles had
been bandied about in recent weeks. The new company will be a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Disney's Miramax Films unit.

Talk nosed out the name Brown's as the title.

Brown's was a good name too, but we did not think it said what we are about,
says Tina, who stunned the industry this July when she announced she was
abandoning S.I. Newhouse Jr. and the Conde Nast empire to team up with Harvey
Weinstein's Miramax.

The queen of buzz feels she can still tap into the American psyche with a
general-interest magazine that sounds a lot like Vanity Fair, which she edited
for several years.

The defining theme of the magazine will be the American conversation, what
people are talking about, what people should be talking about. It will be the
last word - first.

So far, Michael Eisner, Disney's head honcho, has not dropped in on the
fledgling publishing operation that Tina and former Vogue publisher Ron Galotti
are starting for Weinstein.

Eisner canceled a side trip several weeks ago when he was in town to gab about
his new autobiography on the TV talk circuit. He has yet to reschedule a
drop-by.

Rumors have circulated that if the economic climate worsens, Tina either will
not get the magazine launched at all or - on the flip side - will launch it this
spring to coincide with a TV special.

Neither rumor is true, Tina says. September. We have always said September.

We're almost at the end of the year now, which means we basically have six
months next year to produce the first issue.

Moon Unit Zappa, the daughter of rocker Frank Zappa, has just sold her first
novel, America the Beautiful, to the Dell Publishing division of Random House
Inc. for a six-figure advance.

The book is a literary comic romance set in present-day Los Angeles. Its plot
centers around a 30ish woman named America Throne who is dumped by her painter
boyfriend, Jasper Hush, and pushes on to make new discoveries about her inner
self.

It's not too surprising that the author, who made the mid-80s hit record Valley
Girl with her famous dad is both embracing and spoofing Left Coast culture.

The story is about radiant self-acceptance, Zappa says. She 'America Throne_
thinks she has happiness, loses it and then has to find it again.

Or does she?

I think it will have a happy ending, but I really don't know, says the author,
who does an every- other-monthly column for the cutting-edge West Coast magazine
Ray Gun. I didn't do chapters - I did fragments of chapters.

I'm like a ship in the middle of the ocean, adds Zappa, meaning her book, like
the proverbial ship at sea, could land anywhere.

Other similarities to book writing and deep-sea sailing? When I scream, nobody
can hear me. She hopes, of course, that will change once she is published.

I'm really hoping the book will be funny, Zappa says. I'm just going to explore
some aspects of crazy California living.

The novel is 17.2 percent autobiographical, she adds.

It will probably be out in spring 2000, says Dell editor-in-chief Leslie Schnur.
The novel will be published by Dell's hardcover Delacorte imprint.

Dell had to beat out three other publishers, including an in-house rival, the
Crown Publishing unit of Random House, Penguin Putnam's Viking imprint and
HarperCollins - a unit of News Corp., which also owns The Post.

We spoke on the phone, and she and I bonded, says Dell's Schnur. She's fun and
warm.

Schnur said this is the first incomplete manuscript she has bought from a
first-time writer.

Zappa says she hopes to complete it by the spring.

Jimmy Vines at the Vines Agency Inc. handled the deal.

First-time novelists Christopher Moore and Pamela Johnson are bubbling over with
Christmas cheer a few months before the holiday - now that their book Santa &
Pete has been snapped up by Hollywood.

Beth Polson bought the rights and plans to turn it into a holiday hit next year
- with high hopes that it will become a hearty annual along the lines of The
Christmas Box, which Polson also produced.

That TV deal - which could be worth six figures - comes on top of publisher
Simon & Schuster's plan this November to put some marketing muscle behind the
book, which it will launch with a big first-time printing of 75,000 copies.

When you talk about advance orders of close to 100,000, you know they expect to
launch it right onto the lists, says agent Victoria Sanders.

The book centers around a bus-driver father who is accompanied on his
Christmas-eve rounds by his son. As the father drives around the city in a
worsening snowstorm, he tells his son Christmas-themed stories that draw on the
history of New York as far back as the Dutch settlers in the colony of New
Amsterdam.

Finally, as the bus lurches to a stop in the deepening snow, the father tells
the story of Santa and his partner Pete, a black man who was a helper to old St.
Nick.

The story is based on an old legend Moore discovered. The partner Pete was
present in the Christmas stories that surfaced during the early days of New
Amsterdam, but somehow, Pete got dropped from the legend, Sanders says. The
novel's two African-American authors expect it to have a broad-based
multicultural appeal.

We want it to be a Christmas movie for December 1999, Polson says.

Moore is a teacher, a historian and the chairman of the New York City Landmarks
Preservation Committee. He co-produced the History Channel's award-winning TV
special The African Burial Ground: An American discovery. Johnson, his partner,
is a former senior editor at Essence.

I never make anything assuming it's a one-time thing, Polson says. I think this
could turn into a Christmas classic.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               29 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            November 8, 1998, Sunday

ROY A GOOD-MAN TO LEAD REPUBLICANS

BYLINE: Ray Kerrison

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 954 words


MAYOR Giuliani's impassioned plea for New York to scrap parole for violent
felons has only a 50-50 chance of passage in the state Legislature.

That's the opinion of Sen. Roy Goodman, the long-serving Manhattan Republican
who is the mayor's point man in Albany.

"The Senate would quickly pass such a bill, but it would face hard going in the
Assembly," said Goodman.

In his State of the City address last week, Giuliani promised he would "press
very, very hard" to eliminate parole this year. His remarks drew loud applause.

He said, "We must change this stupid, dangerous system that comes from some
distant past thinking.

"Twenty-seven other states have done away with parole. The U.S. government did
away with it 10 years ago. How many more police officers do we want shot, how
many more people do we want murdered, before we stand up for the rights of
victims?"

Giuliani said ending parole would slash the crime rate by a further 5 percent
and mean 50,000 fewer victims.

So what are we waiting for?

The Democrats who control the Assembly. That's who.

Sen. Goodman, a member of the Crime and Corrections Committee, said Gov. Pataki
and his Republican majority in the Senate are anxious to pass a law to be rid of
parole.

"But whether the Assembly will go along with it, I don't know," he said.
"They've always had a strong disinclination to go along with get-tough crime
measures.

"It's only after some outrage occurs that we finally build up a climate so that
the Democrats will wake up and do something.

"I wouldn't give it more than a 50-50 chance even though I know the Senate will
move it. It's unfortunate that the Assembly is often the graveyard for anything
to tighten up the criminal-justice system."

Goodman is a unique figure in state politics. He is now serving his 30th year in
the Senate, representing an East Side district where Democrats outnumber
Republicans five to one.

He's a Harvard man, an independently wealthy businessman, cultured, urbane, but
those Democrats keep sending him back, year after year, to represent them in the
state capital.

Why? For one thing, he's a ferocious believer that "all politics is local."

He watches over his district like a mother hen. Nothing is too big or too small
- the 48th Street ramp, rowdy bars, traffic lights, condo rights, rent, pensions
- he's into all of them.

"We run one of the best constituent-service operations in the business," said
Goodman.

He works the streets and subways, even polled his constituents to find out what
they thought of him. They gave him a 90 percent favorable rating - which is why
he will gallop in (again) in November's election.

Goodman is a moderate Republican who comes out of the Rockefeller-Javits school
but through his genial personality and gentlemanly ways, he is popular with all
sections of the party.

When you have three dynamically different party egos like Pataki, Giuliani and
Sen. Al D'Amato at the top, you need a Roy Goodman as the bridge.

"He's a very loyal soldier for the Republicans and an important ingredient in
the Senate," said Mike Long, chairman of the Conservative Party, who differs
sharply with Goodman on social issues.

Goodman is a key player in state politics because he is a Republican from a
300,000 Democratic voter stronghold, thus contributing substantially to the
GOP's control of the Senate.

Still, after 30 years at bat, 15 terms in office, commuting endlessly to the
dreary delights of Albany and immersing himself in thousands of legislative
bills, you'd think Roy, at 67, would have had enough.

Hell, no.

"This is the golden age for Republicans," he said with the enthusiasm of a
freshman. "We've got the governor, the senate, the mayor, a senator in
Washington ... it's never been better.

"The stimulus of the job is enormous."

That's what happens when you're in the party that's running the show. In
politics, majority beats minority any day of the session.

Goodman has headed the Manhattan Republican Party for 15 years, raising money,
grooming and pushing potential candidates in a Democratic world.

Every GOP presidential hopeful calls on Goodman. Years ago, right from the
start, he threw his support to Rudy Giuliani for mayor. Today, he reaps the
rewards.

He also discovered and pushed Pierre Rinfret for governor a few years ago, but
we won't talk about that fiasco today. You win some, lose some.

As chairman of the Senate Committee on Investigations, Taxation and Government
Operations, Goodman has chaired hundreds of probes into everything from cocaine
use and child abuse to school construction and State Liquor Authority abuses.

One investigation he'll never forget involved the ring death of a boxer.

"We were told he died of brain damage," the senator recalled. "We went to the
medical examiner's office to check it out - and they couldn't find the brains.

"We asked where they kept them. They said, "Over here, in the garbage can.' A
number of strings were coming out of the can, each with a label attached to some
brains."

Goodman couldn't believe his eyes.

"Are you serious? Is this where you store brains for evidentiary purposes?"

When told it was, Goodman cracked the whip and ordered a total overhaul of the
coroner's office.

In 1998, Goodman has a whole raft of legislative initiatives, but none more
important than protecting the public from violent thugs by eliminating parole.

He should pin Assembly Leader Sheldon Silver up against the wall and demand
reform. Lead the charge.

Don't wait for six more cops and city dwellers to be murdered.

As Mayor Giuliani says, "I hope it gets done early rather than later."

Amen.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEN. ROY GOODMAN Rudy's man in Albany.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               30 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           November 15, 1998, Sunday

A CYNICAL GREENHOUSE GAMBIT

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 064

LENGTH: 397 words


The Clinton administration went ahead and signed the Kyoto Protocol on Thursday.
The treaty is intended to cause a drastic reduction in the emission of
greenhouse gases said to cause "global warming." But the only real hot air was
being spewed by the administration itself.

Just a few days before the administration signed the agreement, a delegation of
congressional observers, led by Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), told the
White House the treaty was "dead on arrival" on Capitol Hill. Indeed, last year,
the Senate passed 95-0 a resolution urging the administration not to sign any
treaty that did not include emission restrictions for developing countries as
well as industrialized ones.

The reason is simple: The goals outlined in the treaty for cutting back on
greenhouse gases right now apply only to the industrialized nations, such as the
United States. The countries that are expected to produce the bulk of the new
greenhouse gases over the next few decades - developing nations like China,
Brazil and Mexico - are simply exempt.

Such a treaty would act as an engraved invitation for businesses to move their
operations from the United States to foreign shores. They would, of course, take
their jobs with them. That is why the developing countries have stoutly resisted
being brought under the emissions-limit umbrella.

This administration, which is anything but stupid, knows this as well as anyone.
So why did it sign?

Cynicism, pure and simple. By signing the treaty, the administration wins
brownie points with the greenie lobby - without upsetting its backers in
corporate America, who know the treaty will never win the 67 Senate votes needed
for ratification.

To Clinton & Co., all this must seem like smart politics. But it might prove too
clever by half.

Most of those outside America have little or no comprehension of the Senate's
advice-and-consent role. So far as they are concerned, a presidential signature
means we intend to abide by the treaty.

Agreeing to a treaty that we have no intention of abiding by, therefore,
devalues America's word in international discourse. Perhaps the president thinks
he has already demonstrated the valuelessness of his word in domestic courts of
law, and therefore has nothing to lose by dissembling on the world stage. Maybe
he doesn't.

America, however, still has a great deal to lose.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               31 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          November 18, 1998, Wednesday

SURLY SLUGGER WOULD BE POISON

BYLINE: TOM KEEGAN

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 081

LENGTH: 686 words


LEAVE it to George King - the only person on earth grumpier than Albert Belle -
to encourage the Yankees to sign baseball's biggest misanthrope since Ty Cobb.

Leave it to King, who looks at a pictorial of Cindy Craw-ford and complains
about the mole, to think it's a peachy idea for George Steinbrenner to open his
vault and invite Affable Al to walk right in and take, take, take.

And leave to King George to listen to George King and drop a time bomb in the
middle of the Yankees' clubhouse.

Steinbrenner won't have to politic for a new stadium if he brings Belle to town.
Belle and The Bronx would be such a combustible mix the Stadium could explode
from sheer stress.

The latest spin on Belle, the best hitter in baseball, centers on his reputation
as a "good guy in the clubhouse." This borders on hilarity.

Everyone who has played with him is too afraid to say otherwise for fear he'll
retaliate with a thrown baseball or, worse, his car. Or maybe he only chases
kids with his car.

Oh, he's good in the clubhouse, all right, as long as you are a thermostat
salesman who works on commission. Once Albert didn't like the temperature in the
Cleveland clubhouse and complained to the clubhouse attendant, who explained the
climate was out of his control and suggested Belle take the complaint to GM John
Hart.

A day later, Belle found the temperature still too hot and took his bat to the
thermostat. For the next month, a hole in the wall where the thermostat used to
be served as a reminder to walk on eggshells around Mr. Freeze.

Belle had an ongoing battle with Indian teammate Kenny Lofton about the music
that blasted out of Lofton's compact-disc player. Belle ended the argument by
taking a bat to the equipment and destroying it.

He's great in the clubhouse, all right. With a bat in his hands.

Albert just doesn't get it, and pinstripes aren't going to magically change that
reality.

Three days after he signed with the White Sox, he showed up at Jacobs Field to
use the workout facilities. Hart got wind of it and phoned security. Some lucky
guard had the duty of telling Belle to get lost. The world revolves around
Albert.

He's great with teammates. I love that one.

Long after his knees had given out, Kevin Seitzer's heart had not, so he
continued his playing career. Seitzer did all he could just to get from second
to third on a Belle single to left. Incensed that Seitzer did not score on the
play, Belle glared at him from first base, letting him know he did not
appreciate being denied the RBI from the back of a baseball card that has
numbers second to no active hitter in baseball.

Great teammate? No.

Great hitter? Yes.

In the past eight seasons - two of them strike-shortened - Belle has averaged 39
homers and 122 RBIs. And the White Sox aren't even making him a contract offer.
They don't want him back even after the incredible season he just finished for
them. What does that tell you, George and George?

Great teammate? When the White Sox and Indians met in spring training for the
first time since Belle changed uniforms, not a single former Indian teammate
approached Belle to say hello. Manager Mike Hargrove shook his hand, but only
Davey Nelson, former Indian first base coach and a close confidant, talked with
Belle at length.

Belle could do no wrong in Nelson's eyes, at least until the
coach-turned-broadcaster attempted to interview Belle and was blown off by him,
a classless show of non-respect to a man who had done so much for him.

Belle creates tension everywhere he walks, and there wasn't a more tension-free
room in baseball than Joe Torre's Yankee clubhouse this past season.

Belle would represent the ultimate test of Torre's ability to keep the
atmosphere relaxed.

It would be a fascinating development to watch. From a distance. In a suit of
armor.

In writing "Unbeatable!" a book that chronicled the 1998 Yankees' season, King
captured the importance of a harmonious clubhouse. Now he must want to write a
sequel titled "Beatable!" because that's what the Yankees would become with
Belle's scowl ruining the mix.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               32 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 2, 1998, Wednesday

WHERE THEY FOCUS ON THE FUTURE

BYLINE: IRWIN M. STELZER

SECTION: PostOpinion; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 979 words


'The current trials and tribulationsof investment bankers and stock brokers may
be the stuff of Eastern conversation. But out West all talk is about rising
property values and the new hotels and malls that are goingup and the shortage
of waiters, lawyers and construction workers.;

SOMETIMES, it's good to put some distance between you and the East Coast.

Spend time in Boston, and you are immersed in the past: ivy-covered buildings in
which various Mayflower descendents with two last names (Trevor Spalding,
Aldrich Case, Forrest Whitman, to make up a few) got their tickets to the
then-white-shoe worlds of investment banking and Wall Street lawyering -before
junk-bond inventor Mike Milken, merger maven Joe Flom and their ilk substituted
talent for breeding as the key to success.

Spend time in Washington and you are immersed in a combination of hypocrisy and
slime that makes it painful to watch the evening news and the morning talk
shows. Perjury isn't perjury if it is committed to avoid embarrassment (what lie
isn't told for precisely that purpose?), say the Democrats. And it shouldn't be
punished, say the Republicans, if the polls, which in Washington trump principle
every time, suggest that voters would rather avert their eyes than stare truth
in the face.

Even New York isn't a bad place to give a miss every now and then. True, Rudy
Giuilani has made it a safer, more prosperous and more civil place since taking
over from a mayor more interested in changing his suits and baseball caps than
in changing the city for the better.

But the emphasis is on fighting change: Persuade George Steinbrenner to keep the
Yankees in New York; persuade the New York Stock Exchange to stay in New York;
dole out money first to this and then to that corporation in an effort to keep
their headquarters in New York. The city seems to be playing defense most of the
time.

Things are different out West. And I don't mean in California, where smoking a
cigar in a cigar bar is illegal and where arugula seems to be the preferred main
course in many restaurants. I mean Arizona, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico and what
Timothy Egan in his delightful new book, "Lasso the Wind," calls "the sunset
side of the 100th meridian."

With the exception of an undue fascination with terrible paintings of cowboys
and Indians as contemporary artists imagine them to have lived, the focus seems
to be on the future. On building things. On accommodating the masses that are
moving from the coasts to the Southwest and the Rocky Mountain states.

A new house goes up every minute in Nevada. Thirty thousand newcomers move into
Phoenix every year, replacing dreary Sonoran desert with pretty lawns at the
rate of an acre every hour. One thousand people make new homes for themselves
every week on Colorado's Front Range of the Rockies. They come, writes Egan, to
ski, to gawk at the sunsets, and to argue over "whether home runs are cheap in
the thin air" of Coors Field.

Roam around and talk to some of these people. A young black man moved to Arizona
from California because the opportunities for a restaurant manager are better in
Phoenix. A young waitress and communications student came from New York for the
freedom to pile into her jeep and drive off into the open spaces on weekends. An
older waitress left the Midwest to live where she can afford two acres and keep
a pair of horses. A real-estate broker gave up the New York rag business after
being mugged, and headed west. All have one thing in common - a cheery optimism
about the future.

And an almost complete lack of interest in what absorbs Washington's
politicians. It is not that, after careful thought, they have decided that the
president should be let off. It is that they have made up their minds that he is
a liar, and have crossed him off the list of people they should spend any time
thinking about. Time that can be better spent worrying about the things that
local politicians can affect: crime and education.

The solution to crime is seen as obvious. Lock up the bad guys, preferably in
very unpleasant circumstances, and keep a gun handy should anyone violate the
sanctity of your home. As for education, home learning and school vouchers are
the best solutions to public schools that don't work.

The solutions to environmental issues out West are more elusive. People seem
torn: They don't want to inhibit anyone's freedom to live where they choose and
to drive cars as big as houses. But they want to preserve some of the natural
amenities that lured them to the West in the first place. So they argue. And
they keep building: homes, ballparks, museums, retirement communities, office
buildings.

And, from what I can judge, they keep spending. The current trials and
tribulations of investment bankers and stock brokers may be the stuff of Eastern
conversation. But out West all talk is about rising property values and the new
hotels and malls that are going up and the shortage of waiters, lawyers and
construction workers.

On the day after Thanksgiving, stores were jammed - and judging from the
ubiquitous shopping bags, these were customers, not lookers. Customers who want
bargains, to be sure, but customers willing to snap up a bargain when they find
one.

Egan says it best: "Given a chance, the West will leave most people feeling a
sense of light-headed exuberance." But the West isn't for everyone - not for
those who prefer culture to climate, human proximity to open spaces. In "The
Wealth of Cities," John Norquist argues: "Proximity is a magnifier, a catalyst
that helps culture and commerce blossom when diverse peoples interact."

The good news is that, in fully employed America, you get to take your pick -
the natural beauty of the West or "the spectacular and attractive" contrast
between the towers of Manhattan and Central Park beloved of Norquist.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               33 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 3, 1998, Thursday

IT'S A LOCKOUT, STUPID! - OWNERS TO BLAME FOR WIPING OUT THE SEASON

BYLINE: WALLACE MATTHEWS

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 080

LENGTH: 1122 words


SEASONS Greetings from the National Basketball Association.

Thanks to Ebeneezer Stern, Grinch Granik, and their 29 co-conspirators, who will
never be mistaken for Santa's Elves, the NBA has canceled Christmas.

And if the players, led by union president Patrick Ewing - also known as jolly
'ol St. Knick - don't knuckle under at today's meeting, New Year's will be next
on their hit list, followed by All-Star weekend, the first day of spring and
Memorial Day.

Make no mistake about just who is responsible for there being no basketball
season this year, and perhaps next.

You can blame the players for plenty, starting with greed, moving on to
arrogance and in some cases, heading right into stupidity, but you cannot blame
them for the fact that the NBA has been shut down.

You know darn well that if it were up to the players, the 1998-99 season would
be a month old and their bank accounts would be two paychecks fatter.

The owners, led by Stern, their highly-paid lackey, would like you to forget
that the reason there is no basketball is not because the players refuse to come
to work but because they have locked the doors to the factory.

It is a cynical game they are playing, cynical and vicious, and not only because
this is supposed to be the season of giving.

The cynicism comes from the owners knowing that no matter who is to blame for
the NBA's current state of inaction, the fans will instinctively direct their
anger and resentment to the easiest and most visible targets - the players.

And the viciousness comes from the owners' sophisticated playing of the race
card to their advantage, knowing that they have sold a predominantly black sport
to a predominantly white audience for prohibitively high prices.

NBA fans may love the players on game night, but when it comes down to taking
sides over a matter of economics, who do you think the white lawyer or CEO or
stockbroker in the $250 courtside seat is going to identify with?

The nouveau-riche black millionaire who goes to work in shorts and sneakers and
leaves the arena in Versace with a cell phone attached to his ear, or the
old-money, aristocratic white owner in Brooks Brothers?

The owners are well aware of this, and are counting on it as just another of the
overwhelming advantages they enjoy in this most unfair war.

Along with getting their $500 million in TV money from two more of their
co-conspirators, NBC and TNT, and having, in most cases, other means of income
besides toying with a basketball team, the owners have stacked the deck so
highly in their favor not even Shaquille O'Neal could see over it.

And don't forget, the owners negotiated in bad faith three years ago, signing
off on a six-year deal they had no intention of honoring.

And still, too many NBA fans point their fingers at the players and cluck,
"Greedy bastards."

Yes, the players have taken advantage of a climate in which they have been
obscenely overpaid for the highly dubious skills of being able to dribble, pass
and shoot a basketball.

Who could blame them?

And yeah, they have been guilty of horrendous arrogance by characterizing this
fight as one for "survival," and of profound stupidity by choosing to map out
their survival strategy at a Las Vegas casino.

But the truth of the matter is, even at $18 million per year, to ownership an
NBA player is still the hired help.

And don't you believe for a minute that any one of the robber-barrons who own
NBA teams would pay out one dollar more than they could afford or believed they
could get back, in multiples.

Without getting into the mind-numbing financial issues designed primarily to
confuse everyone into disinterest and ultimate exasperation with the negotiating
process, does anyone honestly believe that half the teams in the NBA are losing
money?

With all the revenue streams available to an NBA franchise, the only ways one
could fail to make money with one are the same ways one could fail to make money
with a casino.

Through corruption or ineptitude. Or both.

Or, in a few cases, because a city simply is not in a position to afford an NBA
team.

Face it, even in this sports-crazy society, not every city that wants a team can
have one.

There are markets in this country that simply cannot generate enough revenue to
make it possible for a team to be both profitable and competitive.

Tough toenails.

It is the same as if I was seized by the overwhelming urge to own a Porsche in
order to keep up with my neighbor, who has a Ferrari.

Never mind that he is a neurosurgeon and I work for the New York Post. I gotta
have that car to compete.

So I buy it. And then, when I can't make the payments, I go to the Porsche
people and ask them to take less. And I go to my neighbor and ask him to help me
out, because after all, it's not fair that he has his and I can't have mine.

Sure, that would work.

Not in the real world, of course, but in the fantasy world of professional
sports, the owners are trying their damndest to make it work.

But where is it written that every city in the U.S., in spite of its size or
location or demographics, should have the right not only to host a professional
sports franchise, but assurances from the other teams in the league and its
players that it turn a profit?

Find another industry in this country where that kind of a deal exists and I
will change careers. Promise.

But the fact is, that kind of arrangement only exists in professional sports,
which operate like independent, cutthroat businesses on the field and partners
in a kibbutz off of it.

The owners want to win so badly, they grossly overpay the players they think
they need.

Then, when they find they can't turn the kind of profit they desire, they ask
the players to give back some money while keeping up the same level of
performance.

In short, they want the players to protect them from their own fiscal
irresponsibility.

The players, rightly, say the owners are big enough boys to take care of
themselves.

And the fans, as usual, can only sit back and try to figure out why a game they
love returns their affection like this.

Look at the bright side. You haven't wasted a minute watching meaningless
early-season basketball games, and this week, the NBA sent out refund checks,
plus 6% interest, to everyone who bought tickets to games that were canceled.

If they don't get anywhere today, there could be more on the way.

In the meantime, put your windfall to good use.

Have a Merry Christmas, courtesy of the NBA. Ebeneezer Stern, prop.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SLAM BUNK: Despite what owner rep David Stern would have you believe,
the players haven't put the NBA season in jeopardy, the owners have.
-Associated Press

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               34 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 3, 1998, Thursday

NEW ANGLE ON CHANGE IN EARTH'S CLIMATE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: News; Pg. 036

LENGTH: 299 words


The tilt theory may explain evidence that there once were glaciers in what are
now the tropics.The Earth might have tilted far more toward the sun 600 million
years ago than it does today, making the polar regions warm and the tropics
cold, researchers say.

Scientists say this could explain evidence that there once were glaciers in what
are now the tropics.

This theory of planetary tilt has been around for a while, but researchers at
Pennsylvania State University have come up with an explanation of how the Earth
could have moved from an angle as great as 55 degrees to its current position, a
more modest 23.5 degrees.

The buildup and melting of glaciers during this period might have created enough
force to cause the planet to straighten up on its axis, the researchers
theorized in yesterday's issue of the journal Nature.

"Like when you repeatedly push on a swing at the same point in the swing cycle,"
said co-author James F. Kasting. "If you give it a little push at the right time
the swing goes higher and higher."

The seasons as we know them occur because of the tilt of the Earth as it travels
around the sun. When the North Pole is tilted on its axis toward the sun, summer
occurs in the northern hemisphere and winter in the southern hemisphere.

If the Earth's axis had been tilted more in the past, day and night over much
more of the globe would have been like the days and nights now experienced only
in Alaska and other polar regions - extremely long days during the summer and
extremely long nights during winter.

In addition, the poles would have received most of the sun's warmth, and the
equator would not have been the warmest place on Earth, as it is now. That would
have kept the poles ice-free and allowed glaciers to form around the equator.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               35 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 13, 1998, Sunday

AUDI'S 1999 A6 AVANT: A DYNAMIC SPORT WAGON

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 056

LENGTH: 691 words


IN two short weeks we'll officially enter 1999. It doesn't mean anything to me
because I've been living in 1999 for about six months. That's how long I've been
writing about 1999 cars and trucks.

However, 1999 will be a special year for Audi. The company will mark its 100th
anniversary. I imagine it's kind of hard for Audi to really come up with an
anniversary date since the Audi of today is the product of a merger of fine
companies: NSU, Wanderer, DKW, Horch and Audi.

Horch really was the first pure auto company of the group. August Horch founded
his company in 1899, applied for a patent on a two-cylinder engine the next
year. He built and tested his first car in 1901. By 1909, he left his first
company to found a second which he named Audi. In 1932, all the companies were
merged into Auto Union. There's a lot more fascinating history about Audi, which
I'll relate in 1999. After all, it's only right to wait for the actual
anniversary. And in case you're wondering, Auto Union changed the corporate name
to Audi AG in 1985.

Over the past several years Audi has been revamping its product lineup and
introducing new cars at a hot pace. For 1998, it unveiled its A6 sedan. Now, for
1999 , the sedan has a touring wagon partner, the A6 Avant. Though based on the
sedan platform, the A6 Avant is a trendsetter in its own right. Yes, it carries
some sedan design themes such as the front face, yet it also has its own sense
of style with a dominant rear end. The Avant is eye catching from nose to tail.
The A6 Avant comes only with the all-wheel drive, quattro, system

Powering the A6 is a 2.8-liter, DOHC, 200-horsepower V6 coupled to a standard
five-speed automatic transmission. The transmission also has the Tiptronic |
system which allows the driver to shift gears. This is a smooth powertrain that
delivers in all areas. The A6 Avant quattro goes from zero to 60 mph in 9.6
seconds.

In the ride and handling departments, the A6 Avant gets high marks. The ride is
firm and the handling excellent. The front suspension is a multi-link layout and
in the rear of the quattro there's a double wishbone suspension. There are
stabilizer bars on both ends. Steering is power rack-and-pinion. Brakes are
four-wheel discs with an anti-lock system. Tires are Continental 205/55R16
all-season radials mounted on alloy wheels.

This is a great wagon to take through tight curves. It's responsive and tightly
hugs the road. It's great to drive which really says it all.

Audi took a somewhat different approach for the A6's interior and created three
different 'Atmospheres: Ambition, Ambiente and Advance. Each is set apart by
different upholstery and wood trim The test car was Tornado red with Melange
Ambiente interior. This has a softer feel and lighter woods. Does it work? Sure.
It is a tasteful execution.

Visibility is excellent in the A6 Avant and there's plenty of room for everyone
as well as all the cargo anyone could desire. With the rear seat up there's 36.4
cu.ft of luggage capacity and with the seat down there's 73.2 cu.ft. Controls
are conveniently located and instruments and gauges are large and easy to read.

Being a luxury touring wagon, the A6 Avant is equipped with the expected
amenities. Among the standard features are a dual climate control system, 12-way
power front seats, cruise control, power windows, mirrors and door locks and a
stereo system . Other standard wagon features include a roof rack, rear luggage
cover and a partition net between the luggage compartment and the passenger
area. Options on this car included: alloy wheels ($225), a premium Bose | audio
system with six-disc CD player ($1,300), a cold weather package with heated
front seats and steering wheel ($650), a convenience package of power glass
sunroof, memory feature and auto dimming rear view mirror ($1,500), and leather
upholstery ($1,550). The options brought the $36,600 base MSRP up to $42,325
with delivery.

Audi has scored another home run with the A6 Avant. It's a touring wagon that's
meant for miles of driving fun. And for those looking for an alternative to an
SUV, the A6 Avant could be it.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               36 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 20, 1998, Sunday

'I'M STILL ANGIE!'

BYLINE: Liz Smith

SECTION: Gossip; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 840 words


'I WASN'T REALLY a member of the Rat Pack, just a sort of dangling participle -
but a very grateful participle!"

So said the delightful Angie Dickinson, talking about her contribution to A&E's
Jan. 3 and 4 documentary about Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr., Dean Martin and
Peter Lawford.

Angie usually is the most circumspect of creatures. She famously returned a
large advance on a much-anticipated autobiography a few years back. (Angie
always prefers to say, "I have no memory - that's why I haven't written the book
yet!") But she had enough recall to reminisce for the A&E folks about what she
called "a very special era within this little showbiz world of ours. They were
all remarkable men, and what happened in those years was really the cusp of the
changing social and moral climate in this country. You know, although Frank
didn't go out and march for civil rights, his insistence that Sammy work with
him on various stages broke a lot of barriers. He said, 'I don't appear if he
doesn't.' He was quite a man.'"

Angie said she enjoyed the recent HBO movie about the Rat Pack: "It was a
terrific show; it had the right 'feel.' But, of course, you can pick it apart.
There was quite a bit of dramatic license. Like the ominous scene with Frank and
Sam Giancana and Marilyn and Joe DiMaggio. I doubt such a quartet ever happened,
but even if it did, it would have been a more casual thing, and Marilyn was
nothing like that - though I admire the actress who played her. Thirty years
from now, people will appreciate that movie more. But I was glad to be a part of
something that was strictly factual. No need to dramatize, because it was
dramatic!

"The old news clips A&E uses are so fascinating, and I'm a sucker for that kind
of history, anyway. They were special men - though I always call them 'boys,'
and, in a sense, that's what they were - boys having fun." Angie says Peter
Lawford, who was expelled from the inner circle, has been unfairly villified
over the years. "What happened to him was tragic. He lost Marilyn, lost Sinatra,
through no fault of his own - because the Kennedys disapproved of Frank. To fall
from the heights as he did ... well, it was so sad. He was a warm, bright man
with wonderful manners."

As for herself, Angie - a much underrated talent - says she doesn't work as much
as she'd like, but doesn't want to work that much, either. (Never another
series.) "I am 'a woman of a certain age' now. An awkward age. I have to wait a
few more years, and then I'll be ready for all my Jessica Tandy-Katharine
Hepburn-type roles." But still sexy, yes? "Oh, I've put on a bit of weight, as
happens in life. So that changes your view of yourself. But, yeah, I'm still
Angie!"

*

WENT TO a lovely private party at the home of Jennifer Patterson and Howard
Stringer, the bigwig who now runs almost everything Sony does in America and
abroad.

There were wall-to-wall VIPs, so the dining room was a mild roar - and a grand
time was had by all. I won't name all these elegant guests, for fear of
irritating someone who is innocent.

After dinner, Marvin Hamlisch entertained with Christmas carols, begged each of
us to sing and would segue from the most gorgeous caroling into Hanukkah joy or
rock 'n' roll. Marvin is a national treasure. His best moment came when he
played the theme from ABC's "The View" for guest Barbara Walters.

Nora Ephron performed her yearly miracle, one in which she sings the misleading
verse that goes before Irving Berlin's "White Christmas." I don't think too many
people even know there is a verse to this famous song, and that the setting is
Beverly Hills! (Nora is glowing from her triumph with "You've Got Mail.")

The night ended with Broadway's sexiest leading man, Jim Naughton, singing a
soulful rendition of Elvis' "Love Me Tender." Mr. Naughton recently starred in
"Chicago" and killed the people when he did "City of Angels" a few seasons back.
He'll open in the first week of February at the Promenade Theater in his one-man
show, "Street of Dreams." Mike Nichols "presents" this show. And my bet is that
James Naughton will be just great!

*

THE MEMORIAL for the highly respected agent Flora Roberts brought out a loving
crowd and the wonderful Forrest Perrin at the piano. Speakers were Andre Bishop,
Maya Angelou, Helen Brann and Beatrice Hofstadter White. Flora died of
congestive heart failure at age 77. She was one of the old-fashioned "greats,"
coddling and advising the likes of Stephen Sondheim, Tina Howe, Alfred Uhry,
Maury Yeston, etc.

*

A NOTE from McCall's magazine: "We must take credit where credit is due - it was
McCall's, not Redbook, that identified Willow Bay as Barbara Walters' daughter
in our January issue. We were as surprised as Ms. Walters to discover the
mistake. We always hate to make an error, but how nice to look enough like
Willow Bay to have so many people fooled (except, of course, your mother)."

We hate to make an error, too; apologies to Redbook!


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGIE DICKINSON Still fond of her "boys."

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               37 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 21, 1998, Monday

MERCEDES HOT CLK430 CAPTURES THE IMAGINATION

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 058

LENGTH: 675 words


AS everyone knows, Mercedes-Benz is expanding its product lineup at an
unbelievable pace. For 1999, there are four new models in the stable plus
refinements throughout.

And while the new products came rolling off the line, the merger between
Daimler-Benz, the Mercedes-Benz parent, and Chrysler Corp. was completed.
DaimlerChrysler was born in mid-November.

What the future holds for the new company is a matter best reserved for books
and not this space. It's too complicated. Now, 29 merger integration teams
comprised of employees from what was both companies are hard at work to combine
operations people and products. At a couple of recent luncheons I attended,
there were as many opinions at the table as there were seats. Hey, everyone's an
armchair expert, and we certainly live in interesting times.

As for the new Mercedes-Benz models, each expands the existing line in very
interesting ways. The CLK320 Cabriolet adds a convertible to the CLK-Class,
while the ML430 adds V8 power to the sport utility range. The C-Class got a
boost with the supercharged C230 Kompressor. And V8 power also came to the
CLK-Class with the CLK430.

The CLK-Class is Mercedes-Benz's line ofcoupes and now a convertible. As a
class, these are stylish machines and the top-of-the-class is the CLK430. My
test car was black with a charcoal leather interior.

Mercedes-Benz opted for near classic styling for this coupe. It has a presence
that signals a timeless quality, much like a Brooks Brothers suit. Mercedes
calls it a performance supercoupe. There's no doubt that this car performs
extremely well. And with its restrained styling, the CLK430 is a wolf in sheep's
clothing.

Under its hood is a new breed if Mercedes V8. The 4.3-liter, 275-horsepower
engine delivers 295 Ibs.ft. of torque over a range from 3,000 - 4,400 rpm. It's
teamed to a five-speed automatic transmission. With its blend ofpower and
torque, the V8 propels the CLK430 from zero to 60 mph in 6.1 seconds. With its
exceptional acceleration and passing capability, the CLK will bring a smile to
anyone who loves performance.

There's a lot to be said for the CLK 430's ride and handling as well and all of
it is positive. It's equipped with four-wheel independent suspension. Steering
is power assisted recirculating ball and the brakes are four wheel dise with an
anti-lock braking system, Tires are 225/452R17 performance radials in front and
245/40ZR17 in the rear. These are mounted on five-spoke alloy wheels. Traction
control and Mercedes' Electronic Stability Program are standard.

With a firm, comfortable ride, the CLK430 is in the European tradition of fine
touring coupes. It also is a superb handling machine with crisp response to all
commands. The low, wide staggered tires tenaciously grip the road through tight
curves. Simply put, it's a handling gem.

The interior is roomy and tastefully trimmed in burl walnut. Visibility is
excellent and the layout ofthe controls favors the driver. The power seats are
firm and very supportive.

In fact the only thing I found very annoying was the cassette player which came
with the eight-speaker Bose audio system. It is hidden behind the audio display
and two buttons have to be pushed to reveal it. It's an example of technology
over convenience.

Naturally, being a luxury touring coupe, the CLK430 is loaded with standards
equipment. The list includes a climate control system, dual front and side
impact air bags, power widows, mirrors and door locks, cruise control and the
SmartKey, keyless ignition system among other items.

Options on the test car were an integrated CD changes ($750), a package that
included a rain sensor, glass sunroof and electric rear window sunshade ($1,290
and another package with the headlamp washing system, Xenon headlamps and heated
front seats ($1,495). The options took the $47,900 MSRP to $52,030 with
delivery.

The 1999 CLK430 is a great touring coupe that is a joy to drive. It's blend of
performance and luxury make it a standout in the luxury coupe market.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               38 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 23, 1998, Wednesday

THIRD-PLACE HONDO SHOOTING FOR PENTHOUSE

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 079

LENGTH: 668 words


THE football gremlins just about fleeced Navidad from Hondo over the weekend,
causing him to go 5-and-10 and tumble all the way to third place, three games
behind Harry "The Hacker" Hollingsworth and one behind The Fan. So what he's
praying for this week is a miracle on 48th St., one that will yield the greatest
gift of all: many covers.

Vikings over Oilers: There once was a ref by name of Phil Luckett, who had a
flag, but knew not when to pluck it. From coin flip to unbroken plane did his
gaffes range, which is why he should be seeking spare change, from now till the
day he kicks the bucket.

Raiders over Chiefs: When your Indians quit halfway through the season, it's
time to get a new Chief. That means you, Marty. Clean out your office, and take
that right-wing playbook with you!

Giants over Eagles: The Giants do their part, kicking the beagles when they're
down, but you'll have to read on to see whether they make it into the
postseason.

Jets over Patriots: Gang Grin all smiles till they head to Denver for the AFC
title tilt.

Bears over Packers: In case you're wondering, the real reason Bourbon Street Bob
Livingston stepped down as Sneaker/Speaker of the House was so he could devote
more time to his favorite hobby: extra-marital sex. Go get 'em Bob!

Ravens over Lions: Clinton, meanwhile, allegedly called a halt to the bombing
out of respect for the Muslim rite of Ramadan. That's a lot more respect than he
showed for Easter a few years back when he attended services and then did a
little carpet bombing in the White House with The Portly Pepperpot.

Falcons over Dolphins: By the way, according to Hondo's moles in the defense
department, the next time Clinton's under siege and feels the need to bomb Iraq
(or even a Sudanese pharmaceutical plant), the mission will be code-named
"Operation Desert FX."

Bengals over Buccaneers: Sadly, for all you hopeful Big Blue rooters out there
in Hondoland, a cover is not a victory. The Giants miss the playoffs!!! The
Giants miss the playoffs!!! The Giants miss the playoffs!!! Thank you, Russ
Hodges.

Panthers over Colts: If you're hell-bent on Peyronie Bill resigning, forget it.
That would require him to surrender his status as an honorary Baldwin brother.
You know that ain't happening.

Saints over Bills: Quickie Quiz: How many Baldwin brothers does it take to stone
Henry Hyde to death? All of them: one to call for it on Conan O'Brien, one to
throw the stones, one to get in a rage at the Plaza, and the rest to make sure
no animals get hurt while all the other stuff is going on.

49ers over Rams: Former KKK grand wizard David Duke has thrown his pointy hat
into the ring for Livingston's House seat. If he wins, it'll make for a smooth
transition - he can just wear the sheets that Bourbon Street Bob has been
rustling with reckless abandon for the last 33 years. Then again, he could buy
some new ones if he gets a good turnout at his cross-burning fund-raisers.

Seahawks over Broncos: Given the current climate, Hondo is predicting it won't
be long before our national bird is changed from the American eagle to the
spread eagle.

Chargers over Cardinals: Jake the Snake, who signed a new $29.7M deal this week,
said he felt very indebted to backup Dave Brown for providing so much contrast.

Cowboys over Redskins: That was a lovely tribute Lupica gave Rick Schroeder and
NYPD Blue in Sunday's column. There's just something so darling about the sound
of small hands clapping.

Steelers over Jaguars: Clinton, whose favorite reindeer is Vixen, still hasn't
quite overcome his sexual problems. The other day at the White House he heard
somebody say "Ho-Ho-Ho" and he became all excited because he thought he was in
for a foursome.

And on that joyous note, boys and girls, Hondo wishes you and yours, his and
hers, and them and theirs a very Merry Christmas.

Best Bets: Seahawks, Bengals, Cowboys.

If you have an electronic message for Mr. Aitch, send it to: hondo@nypost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               39 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 24, 1998, Thursday

SANTA'S LATEST WHIM

BYLINE: JOHN A. RUSSELL

SECTION: AutomotivePlus; Pg. 056

LENGTH: 816 words


TWAS two days before Christmas and all through the house, the creatures were
stirring, of course not the mouse. As Frankie and Wylie roamed the hall, I sat
at the computer to check my e-mail.

And what did I find much to my chagrin, but a bunch of engineering jerks
'dissing' a friend of mine.

Suddenly, there arose such a clatter from the telephone, that Wylie, Frankie and
Fineas jumped into action. The barks and meows and splashes raised such a clamor
that I reached for the telephone to silence my brood. And 'lo and behold, much
to my surprise, a forgotten voice boomed forth: "John, this is Nick. How are you
doing?"

"Nick," I replied, "So what do I owe this august honor to, a heat wave up
north?"

"Don't be smart," he said, "I'm wondering whether you saw that e-mail from those
nerds impugning my reputation. It's guys like that who give Scrooge a good
name."

I read it and for what it was worth these engineering types applied scientific
principles to prove my old pal Nick could not exist just because he does a few
things that flaunt the laws of physics. Mere minor details so I told him not to
worry since they forgot the primary law he always operated by during this time
of year.

After listening to him grouse, I decided change the subject. "You stopping by
for a little holiday cheer?" I asked.

"Maybe, but I have a few more important matters on my mind. I need a car."

"What happened to the sports car you bought last year?" You might recall that
Nick wanted something exotic to take his annual trip south for the winter. I
gave him some very good ideas.

"Did you ever try fitting all your stuff into a two-seater? I never heard the
end of it from the Missus. And she kept talking about my mid-life crisis. What
mid-life crisis! I'm too old for a mid-life crisis. Anyway, I want something
luxurious this year. A car that fits my status in life."

I didn't give him a chance to ramble on about being a CEO of a major enterprise.
I've heard it all before and frankly it gets a little boring. Quickly, I
mentioned more than a few brands: Cadillac, Lincoln, Jaguar, Mercedes-Benz, BMW,
Lexus, Infiniti, Chrysler, Acura, Audi and a few others such as Rolls-Royce and
Bentley.

"Price is an object this year, I don't want to spend over $100,000. If I do, the
Missus will really get mad," he said so I quickly dropped the Rolls and Bentley
from the list.

"But I want all the amenities. Leather interior, climate control system, power
everything and a super sound system." Every brand I mentioned has all the luxury
goodies, so I was on safe ground. Acura's 3.5RL could be a choice, I said,
reminding him of the 210 horsepower V6 under the hood. I didn't give him a
chance to respond. I learned a long time ago to just give Nick the information,
he'll make up his mind in his own time.

Audi's A8 was another choice. It has the space he needs, a 300 horsepower V8 and
it's priced right for him, at least. Of course, BMW's 7 Series is right up there
as well.

"How about the Cadillac STS. It's a solid machine Nick with a 300 horsepower V8
under the hood and you can get it with a massaging lumbar support?" "Hmm, that
might be good for a long trip," he said.

Chrysler's LHS was another option and I reminded him we gave it high marks this
year. "Choices, choices," he muttered considering every word I said which was a
miracle to say the least.

Infiniti has its revised Q45 with a strong V8 and a bunch of standard equipment.
And for Nick I also suggested the Jaguar Vanden Plas. It's longer than the
standard XJ8 and I though he would need the extra room. Besides, it's a posh
machine.

"Any others," he asked.

"Sure. Lincoln's Town Car. It's has the room you want and the power. And the
Lexus LS 400 is a sedan you would love. Again, V8 power for both." Finally, I
suggested the S-Class from Mercedes-Benz. The S 500 is a car legends are made of
and continue to be made.

"We drove it this summer and it was great. Plenty of room for everyone and
everything," I said.

"Is that it?" he said.

"Nick I've given you a list of some great luxury cars. You make the decision.
Check them all out."

"I will, I will. I've got to get going now. There's alot of little ones who are
depending on me." Then he paused ands finally said "You know John, one thing
still bothers me about those nerds. They forgot what the season really is all
about."

"I know Nick. They forgot the magic. That's how it all happens."

"Right. The magic of Christmas. Well, I'll see you soon," he said, "Maybe I'll
drop in, you never know. And have a Merry Christmas."

So Nick hung up and I guess he'll call to let me know his choice. Whatever it
is, it will be better than a sports car for a man of his girth. And from all of
us on the AutoPlus team, have a "Merry Christmas and a safe one."


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lincoln Town Car: All the room and power you'll need for that long
trip.

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               40 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            March 24, 1998, Tuesday

CONFIDENTIALLY, KIM'S A BIG WINNER - SCORES UPSET AS ACTRESS IN SUPPORTING ROLE

BYLINE: TRACY CONNOR

SECTION: News; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 755 words


Movie star Kim Basinger scored an upset at the Oscars last night, winning the
Best Supporting Actress award for her comeback femme fatale performance in "L.A.
Confidential."

The blond beauty, who won raves for her portrayal of a Veronica Lake look-alike
hooker, beat out sentimental favorite Gloria Stuart, the 87-year-old actress
from the monster hit "Titanic."

"Oh, my God," she said, her voice trembling. "I just want to thank everybody
I've ever met in my entire life."

Hollywood's biggest and brightest turned out for the"Titanic" night at the
Oscars.

The drama began even before the lights went up on the stage at the Shrine
Auditorium in Los Angeles.

Roars of applause and gasps of delight went up from the crowd as Variety
columnist Army Archerd announced each star walking up the red carpet.

"It was all a fairytale and this perhaps is a culmination of it all," veteran
British star Judi Dench said as she arrived to vie for a best actress Oscar for
her performance in "(Her Majesty) Mrs. Brown."

"It's the Super Bowl of the film business tonight - it's really Cinderella,"
said "Terminator" actress Linda Hamilton, who is married to "Titanic" director
James Cameron.

The nominated celebs were perfectly coiffed and costumed - and cautious about
predicting winners.

"It's very difficult to predict these things. Every year there are surprises,"
said Julianne Moore of "Boogie Nights," considered a longshot for a best
supporting actress Oscar.

"Maybe tonight!" said frenetic funnyman Robin Williams, who has been nominated
for Oscars three times and was hoping to snag a statuette for his supporting
performance in "Good Will Hunting."

Cameron, though, seemed certain he wouldn't go home empty-handed.

"It'd be great if we won for best picture, but we're up for 14 Oscars...so we
know we're going to walk out with some trophies tonight."

The dazzling parade of stars included the biggest names in Hollywood - and
dozens of previous Oscar winners.

"To see the past and the present and the future here all at the same time is
pretty amazing," said "L.A. Confidential" director Curtis Hanson.

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences planned to bring dozens of
Oscar-winning actors and actresses on stage to help celebrate the awards' 70th
anniversary.

"It will be a spectacular moment," producer Gil Cates promised.

Hundreds of die-hard fans, some of whom had camped out since Saturday, crammed
into bleachers and craned their necks over the sea of sequins and black tuxedos.

Around the globe, a whopping 1 billion people tuned into the telecast, broadcast
here on ABC, to cheer for the winners in 24 categories.

Independent films dominated last year's Academy Awards, but this year's
nominations favored big-bucks studio flicks - with "Titantic" leading the fleet.

Many industry experts expected the mega-movie to sail past any icebergs and head
home with a deck full of trophies - despite some formidable competition.

But the movie biz's two trade papers warned that many of the gold statuettes
were up for grabs.

"Tonight the fat lady sings. Until then it ain't over," the Hollywood Reporter
warned.

"Expect the unexpected at Oscars," was the watchword from Daily Variety.

Regardless of the final Oscar tally, "Titanic" is already a big winner at the
box office. The most expensive movie ever made, it shattered records with $1.2
billion in global grosses.

Going into the ceremony, "Titanic" was nominated for a record-tying 14 Oscars -
the most since "All About Eve" set a new mark in 1950.

Speculation was running high that the shipwreck melodrama would earn a berth in
the history books by tying or breaking the Academy Awards record of 11 set by
the 1959 chariot epic "Ben-Hur."

But several other movies were chugging along in the big ship's wake.

The gritty crime story "L.A. Confidential," the critics' favorite movie of the
year, was nominated for nine awards, including best picture. So was the warm and
fuzzy "Good Will Hunting."

Close behind was best-picture nominee "As Good As It Gets," a romantic comedy
with seven nominations. The fifth film vying for the top Oscar was "The Full
Monty," the sleeper hit about male strippers.

There's nothing Oscar loves better than a good comeback story, and this year's
nominations were chock full of stars on their second wind.

Peter Fonda of "Ulee's Gold," Julie Christie of "Afterglow" and Burt Reynolds of
"Boogie Nights" were all up for acting awards for their best performances in
decades.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               41 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 10, 1998, Sunday

CAR PARTS MAKERS JUMP INTO THE HOT SEAT

BYLINE: BETH PISKORA

SECTION: Business; Pg. 060

LENGTH: 440 words


NO, I'm not going to tell you that the megadeal between Daimler-Benz AG and
Chrysler Corp. will spark a round of transatlantic mergers in any number of
sectors, though that's probably true.

Instead, I will concentrate on how this and other anticipated megadeals among
car makers will accelerate consolidation among auto parts makers.

Follow the logic: As auto manufacturers get bigger, they have more and more
purchasing clout. They will demand - and get - bargain deals from the companies
that supply them with engines, brakes, spark plugs and other parts.

Some of the auto parts dealers will have to join forces and command the
efficiencies afforded by size in order to remain profitable in this new age of
worldwide automotive alliances.

Auto makers are already demonstrating a preference for ordering parts from big
suppliers who are able to develop and build complete systems, instead of
shipping parts piece by piece.

Meanwhile, the auto parts business is shifting into high gear. Analysts say auto
parts sales will top $220 billion in North America and Europe alone.

The drive to consolidate has already begun. Before the Daimler/Chrysler deal
even took place, Dana Corp. (DCN, NYSE), maker of a wide range of car and truck
parts, offered $4 billion to buy Echlin Inc. (ECH, NYSE), which makes brakes,
engines, power transmission, steering and suspension system parts.

Dana's bid beat out SPX Corp. (SPW, NYSE), which had wanted to take over Echlin
for $3.7 billion.

SPX is sure to be searching for another partner, and analysts said there were
plenty of options.

One is right here in New York. Standard Motor Products, headquartered in Long
Island City, makes ignition systems, fuel system parts, climate control systems
and brakes. In the past 12 months, the stock (SMP, NYSE) has gained 74.57
percent, an unusually high return for an industrial manufacturing business.

Right now, the stock is hovering very near its 52-week high, in part because
investors are anticipating a bid.

Auto tire makers are leaving skid marks in their race to merge. Dura Automotive
(DRRA, Nasdaq) plans to acquire the privately held Trident Automotive,
broadening Dura's customer base and geographic reach.

"Consolidation is driven by the need of automakers to go global," said Wendy
Beale Needham, tire and rubber analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "The
most attractive investment opportunities lie in this sector."

Her favorite names are Intermet Corp. (INMT, Nasdaq), Masco Tech (MSX, NYSE),
Stoneridge (SRI, NYSE) and Tower Automotive (TWR, NYSE) - all are projected to
post returns of more than 15 percent.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               42 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 24, 1998, Sunday

DINING OUT WITH ZAGAT: IT'S THE AMERICAN WAY

SECTION: Entertainment; Pg. 047

LENGTH: 814 words


WHILE today's restaurant scene has become a global buffet, American cuisine
remains a favorite with Zagat surveyors. Here are the cream of the crop in the
category, according to their scores.

Aureole28 26 26 $68

34 E. 61st St. (between Madison & Park avenues), (212) 319-1660

"Everything you've heard is true and more" at Charlie Palmer's "top-notch" East
Side star; surveyors say the "sensational" New American cuisine and
"architectural" desserts are "worth every truffled cent" and the service is
"sublime"; the back garden and "beautiful" flowers make it "a place to propose";
P.S. the new post-2 p.m. prix fixe menu has to be NYC's best fine dining buy.

Union Square Cafe27 24 26 $53

21 E. 16th St. (between Fifth Avenue & Union Square West), (212) 243-4020

Once again rated NY's Most Popular restaurant, because "it all clicks" at Danny
Meyer's "urbane," "feel good," "quintessential" NYC landmark off Union Square;
over 4,400 surveyors report that it "deserves all possible superlatives" for
chef Michael Romano's American-Eclectic cooking, unusually "reasonable prices"
that are $10 to $20 below the competition and Meyer's "relaxed," "gracious"
direction which is reflected in high service ratings.

Gotham Bar & Grill27 24 25 $55

12 E. 12th St. (between Fifth Avenue & University Place), (212) 620-4020

"Absolutely decadent," Alfred Portale's "vertical" New American dishes are
"architecture on a plate," and when more than 3,500 surveyors rate it "one of
NY's best," you know it's a "special spot"; the "glamorous," spacious Village
setting and "attentive" staff add to the lure, as does its bargain $19.98 lunch.

March26 25 26 $71

405 E. 58th St. (between First Avenue & Sutton Place), (212) 754-6272

"Romantic" and "refined," this "lovely Sutton Place hideaway" showcases chef
Wayne Nish's "adventurous" New American cuisine (available prix fixe, dinner
only) and "quality wines"; one of his "incredible" menus, enhanced by
"impeccable" service, comes as close as you can get to a surefire "special
evening."

Gramercy Tavern26 26 25 $58

42 E. 20th St. (between Broadway & Park Avenue South), (212) 477-0777

Danny Meyer's "class act" American neo-tavern boasts chef Tom Colicchio's
"superb" food, a winning wine list, a "romantic" New Englandy setting and
"civilized," "friendly" service that together place it "solidly in the running"
for one of NYC's best; dinner may be "pricey," but for less-expensive
"impromptu" dining, try the upfront Tavern Room.

Arcadia25 23 23 $57

21 E. 62nd St. (between Fifth & Madison avenues), (212) 223-2900

For "a charming reminder of what a fine civilized restaurant can be" try Anne
Rosenzweig's "innovative" New American Eastsider; in the small but beautiful
muraled dining room the tables are packed and it can be noisy, but most say this
is "a class act all the way."

River Cafe

(Brooklyn)25 27 24 $61

1 Water St. (Brooklyn Bridge), (718) 522-5200

This New American "celebration place" under the Brooklyn Bridge wins kudos
all-around for its "picture-perfect" views of Manhattan, "wonderful," "creative"
food, "crisp service" and "divinely romantic" ambience that almost commands
"hold hands."

Park Avenue Cafe25 23 23 $54

100 E. 63rd St. (between Lexington & Park avenues), (212) 644-1900

Star chef David Burke "continues to innovate" with "mouthwatering" New American
cuisine and "dreamy desserts" at this "stylish" yet "casual" East Side cafe;
with its folk art motif decor, classy "people-watching," "special" kitchen room
and new private dining area, it practically shouts "come."

New City Cafe (Brooklyn)24 20 21 $42

246 Dekalb Ave. (Vanderbilt Avenue), (718) 622-5607

This "romantic" BAM-area brownstone with a "quaint" backyard is a "congenial"
backdrop for "inventive" New American food; service can be slow, but that's
easily forgiven as the food is so good.

Quilty's 24 20 21 $46

177 Prince St. (between Sullivan & Thompson streets), (212) 254-1260

Pricey SoHo Contemporary American yearling with "cheerful service," "simple,
striking decor" and Katy Sparks, who is touted as the "best new chef in the
city"; however, a few dissenters report it's "underwhelming" and does not live
up to "all the hype."

Fifty-Seven

Fifty-Seven23 25 23 $54

Four Seasons Hotel, 57 E. 57th St. (between Madison & Park avenues), (212)
758-5757

They treat you "like royalty" at this I.M. Pei-designed "modern masterpiece"
where the American food is "outstanding" if arguably "overpriced"; those who
find it "like eating in Grant's Tomb" are easily outvoted: "gorgeous room,
gorgeous food."

Henry's End

(Brooklyn)23 14 21 $34

44 Henry St. (Cranberry Street), (718) 834-1776

"Where else can you eat antelope and lion" other than at this "cheerful"
Brooklyn Heights New American with servers who are always "warm" and "friendly";
it's worth crossing the bridge.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               43 of 43 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          September 3, 1998, Thursday

EL NINO'S SINFUL SISTER MIGHT SNOW US UNDER

BYLINE: GERSH KUNTZMAN

SECTION: News; Pg. 010

LENGTH: 394 words


El Nino is dead. Long live La Nina!

The weather pattern that wreaked havoc with the world's climate this year - yet
gave us a mild, dry winter - has finally given way to its evil twin sister, La
Nina.

In other words, it's probably a good time to buy that snow shovel you've had
your eye on.

We're not expecting a mild winter as we had during last year's El Nino, said
Tony Barnston, a senior meteorologist with the National Weather Service.
There'll be a lot more action.

The action will mean a more normal New York winter: roughly 30 inches of snow
and colder temperatures than last year, when only 10 inches of snow fell in the
city.

It won't be a ton of snow, but don't put the snow shovels away, Barnston said.

The last time we had a real winter - 1995-'96, when nearly 77 inches of snow
fell in the city - La Nina conditions prevailed.

And that was a weak La Nina, Barnston said. This one is going to be a moderate
to strong La Nina.

The Department of Sanitation, which has seen two mild winters in a row, could
find itself dipping into its reserve fund.

The annual snow-removal budget is required by the City Charter to be an average
of the actual expenditures over the previous five years.

The city spent $12 million on snow removal last winter and has put aside $28
million for this year - far less than the $60 million it cost to clean up from
the La Nina winter of 1995-'96.

Folks in ski areas couldn't be happier.

La Nina doesn't just help us provide better conditions on the mountain, it helps
combat the "backyard syndrome' in our New York and Connecticut customers, said
Bruce Perry, vice president at the Killington ski area in Vermont.

It's hard to market skiing when golf courses are open in New York in February.

Unlike El Nino - a pool of warm water in the Pacific that led to drenching rains
on the West Coast and boredom here - La Nina's cold Pacific water will cause a
shift in the jet stream that will make things cooler and wetter this winter.

Before that, we can expect a greater-than-average number of hurricanes, too.

The ocean is a very powerful driver of global climate, said Stephen Zebiak of
the International Research Institute for Climate Prediction.


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We're not expecting a mild winter as we had during last year's El Nino.
There'll be a lot more action. METEOROLOGIST TONY BARNSTON

           Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
