
                               1 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 12, 2001, Tuesday

THAT'S A DEPARTURE FOR BUSH ; OKS POLLUTION STUDY, THEN FLIES TO EUROPE

BYLINE: VINCENT MORRIS Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 028

LENGTH: 399 words


WASHINGTON - President Bush yesterday offered limited support for fighting
global warming in a bid to blunt the criticism of Europeans who've accused him
of doing zilch.

Hours before catching a flight to Spain for a five-day, five-country tour, Bush
promised to study global warming and invest in researching new technologies to
reduce pollution that some scientists charge causes the atmosphere to heat up.

"We recognize a responsibility to reduce our emissions," said Bush, who says the
Kyoto treaty - which set mandatory levels of pollution reduction - would crimp
the U.S. economy.

Because the United States emits more greenhouse gases than any other country in
the world, other nations have urged Americans to take bolder steps to reduce
pollution.

European nations are pushing for the United States to follow their lead in
cutting pollution by 8 percent by 2012. Most U.S. politicians are leery of going
down that road without promises from China and other countries to curb their own
pollution.

The president urged a united global front to confront climate change, citing a
clear link between man-made pollutants and increases in the Earth's surface
temperature.

"This is a challenge that requires a 100 percent effort, ours and the rest of
the world's," Bush said.

Yesterday afternoon, the president caught an overnight flight to Madrid - the
first stop on his tour. It's Bush's first trip to Europe as president, and he'll
be overseas until Saturday.

Bush predicted that European leaders would find him to be "a trustworthy
friend."

"I'm used to explaining positions that some people don't agree with," Bush said
in an interview with a group of European journalists before he left. "I'll
obviously be asked about a lot of issues."

The biggest issues the president will discuss in Spain, Belgium, Sweden, Poland
and Slovenia are trade, immigration, the death penalty and missile defense.

Bush also may encounter a cool reception later in the week when he sits down to
negotiate his plans for building a missile defense system, which requires
tearing up the current ABM treaty with Russia.

That meeting will place Bush face to face with Russian President Vladimir Putin,
who is wary of the missile-defense idea.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARM GREETINGS: President Bush stresses his commitment to reducing
global warming yesterday before catching a flight to Madrid, Spain. AP

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               2 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            March 15, 2001, Thursday

ECONOMY IN THE BALANCE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 028

LENGTH: 479 words


President Bush's time at the Harvard Business School seems to have paid off: His
position on power-plant emissions and climate change could be a case study in
how to properly weigh costs and benefits.

Bush made clear this week, as he has before, that he sees a real need to study
global climate trends. And he made equally clear that he'll enforce clean-air
laws, even those many would regard as onerous.

Bush also promised to "work with the Congress . . . to reduce emissions of
sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury," all of which are classified by the
Clean Air Act as "pollutants."

But Bush wants to keep America's lights on, too.

And its homes warm.

And its businesses running.

For that to happen, America must have sufficient electricity - produced by power
plants, including many that emit carbon dioxide.

So while Bush will work with lawmakers on other chemicals, he's against further
hamstringing plants with new limits on carbon dioxide emissions.

Is that reckless?

Not at all.

Such curbs would impose costly burdens on those plants, sending electric prices
soaring even higher than the near-record levels they're at now.

Consumers - and businesses - would bear the brunt, at a time when unstable
financial markets and slowing sales and production levels are spotlighting real
dangers in the economy.

A report in December by the regulation-loving Clinton administration's Energy
Department documented how emission caps would lead to higher energy prices.

With the economy teetering, such a blow could be fatal. Talk about reckless!

And while the steep costs of CO2 cuts are clear, the supposed "benefits" are
anything but.

Scientists, after all, have yet to establish any conclusive proof that caps will
stave off any potential climate-related problems, that power plants are causing
undesirable climate change or even that such change is taking place at all.

(Last week, remember, they couldn't even predict the weather in New York.)

In fact, CO2 caps are so costly - and offer such unclear gains - that even
uber-greenie Al Gore, as a presidential candidate, didn't endorse them.

"We're in an energy crisis now," Bush said yesterday. "Our country has got to
recognize that we need more power plants." Which, of course, is the point.

And, by the way, New York is among the neediest when it comes to power plants.

Even as Bush spoke, the New York Independent System Operator, which runs the
state's wholesale electricity market, released its own report saying just that.

The ISO pointed to a shortfall between demand and supply in New York's market.
"California's recent woes . . . provide an important warning for New Yorkers,"
the ISO said. It called for a faster process for building new plants in the
state.

Clearly, Bush knows how to weigh costs and benefits.

Kudos to the Harvard Business School.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               3 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 12, 2001, Tuesday

THE POLITICS OF WARMING'

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 050

LENGTH: 453 words


President Bush told the environmental Chicken Littles to get lost yesterday.

Bravo to that.

Just before leaving for a tour of Europe, Bush rejected the "sky is falling"
assertions of the radical environmentalists. He was commenting on a recent study
by the National Academy of Sciences on climate change.

Typically poor reporting by the national media suggested that the NAS survey
"settles" everything on global warming and creates the need for the United
States to adopt the Kyoto Protocol.

Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, in Monday's Wall Street
Journal, Richard S. Lindzen, one of the NAS scientists working on the study,
disputed the media's reports.

"I cannot stress this enough," Lindzen wrote. "We are not in a position to
confidently attribute past climate change to carbon dioxide or to forecast what
the climate will be in the future. . . . One reason for this uncertainty is
that, as the report states, the climate is always changing; change is the norm."

Given the uncertainties involving greenhouse-gas emissions, why should the
United States - or any country, for that matter - risk its economic future?

And, as the president noted, "The rest of the world emits 80 percent of all
greenhouse gases. And many of those emissions come from developing countries."
Of the larger countries, India and China - also top emitters - are both exempt
from the Kyoto Protocol.

Such inequities - putting the U.S. at a competitive disadvantage - are why the
Senate four years ago rejected the Kyoto plan by a vote of 95-0.

Little has changed since then.

As Bush suggested, the debate is not just over whether warming is taking place,
but also what causes it, man or nature. How severe will it be? And can - and
should - anything be done about it?

These questions are why the prudent and correct decision is for further study.

It's also appropriate for the United States to continue working with other
nations on plans to address the issue, if need be.

Now, all this may be moot, of course, if New York's own Gov. Pataki can simply
solve the problem himself, as he seems to be trying to do. Or pretending to,
anyway. Last weekend, he announced a new task force on emissions and ordered
state agencies to ensure that by 2005 at least 10 percent of their energy comes
from "renewable" sources - wind and solar energy and such.

Not that any of this is likely to result in much of anything. Renewable sources
have far to go before they make sense as a solution to the warming problem.

Assuming it is a problem.

But his plans have another goal: to win him support from the enviro crowd for
his upcoming re-election bid. Which is what counts most - for him, anyway.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               4 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            March 15, 2001, Thursday

HEAT'S ON CHRISTIE IN GLOBAL-WARM SPLIT WITH W.

BYLINE: Marilyn Rauber in Washington and Fredric U. Dicker in Albany

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 359 words


Environmental Protection Administration boss Christie Whitman laid low yesterday
after getting dissed by President Bush over global warming.

The ex-New Jersey governor holed up in her Washington office and declined to
comment a day after Bush announced he opposed regulating power-plant emissions
of carbon dioxide, a heat-trapping "greenhouse" gas that contributes to global
warming.

The decision was a flip-flop by Bush, who vowed on the campaign trail to crack
down on the carbon-dioxide problem - and an embarrassment for Whitman, who not
only supported the crackdown but talked it up in recent weeks.

The White House yesterday denied Bush had abandoned his new EPA chief.

"The decision was made in consultation with the Cabinet," insisted White House
spokesman Scott McClellan.

EPA sources, who said the White House was bombarded by utility industry
lobbyists in recent days, denied Bush's decision took Whitman by surprise -
although Bush didn't inform her until just before he went public.

"He was very solicitous . . . He knew the decision was not necessarily what she
would like to see," the source said, adding that the EPA was "consulted at every
stage."

Bush, on a trip to East Brunswick, N.J., said he reneged on his campaign pledge
because of the country's energy woes and denied he caved in to the lobbyists.

"I was responding to realities and the reality is our nation has a real problem
when it comes to energy," Bush told reporters.

Bush said he wanted to deal with the energy crisis "in a common sense way" and
not force a greater reliance on costlier natural gas by discouraging coal
plants, which generate carbon dioxide.

But Democrats were quick to bash Bush over the flip-flop and accuse him of
failing to support his officials.

Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) said Bush "has abandoned his own Cabinet"
secretary, and scoffed that "in less than eight weeks Bush has gone from CO2 to
see you later."

And Republican Gov. Pataki, in a veiled criticism of Bush, said "a national
policy that reduces CO2" would be "a positive thing for the country."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHRISTIE WHITMAN - Keeping low profile.

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               5 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 8, 2001, Sunday

ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP TRUST SEEING GREEN

BYLINE: Beth Piskora

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 058

LENGTH: 631 words


OIL companies are traditionally left out of "socially-responsible" investment
portfolios because they are thought of as polluters.

But that's not the case at the unique Environmental Leadership Trust, a unit
trust that invests in companies that have successful pollution prevention
programs.

"Our philosophy is that environmental costs are real costs for companies," said
Jon Naiman, founder and president of Light Green Advisors, which managers the
Environmental Leadership Trust."

Companies that reduce their environmental costs reduce their overall costs and
deliver a better bottom line to shareholders," he continued. "We have
proprietary research that shows that companies that are reducing their
environmental costs faster than their peers outperform. We find that means that
we can invest in these companies, thus reinforcing their emphasis on reducing
environmental costs, which we believe means they are better managed. It also
means that over the long-term, our portfolio should outperform."

Investors who followed this unconventional approach to "green" investing fared
quite well in 2000, which was a difficult year for most socially responsible
mutual funds.

From its Oct. 26, 1999, inception through the end of 2000, the Environmental
Leadership Trust generated a 10.92 percent return, 7.42 percent above the S&P
500.

Naiman believes that companies with the lowest exposure to environmental costs
have a distinct competitive advantage over their industry peers. In order for a
stock to make it into the Environmental Leadership Trust, the issuing company
must pass a screening process that takes into consideration industry trends in
environmental emissions of toxic material, waste generation, spillage frequency
of hazardous materials and environmental regulatory procedures.

The portfolio managers also study the financials of any stock that's being
considered for the portfolio.

"Why shouldn't socially and environmentally responsible investors support
companies that are doing the right thing?" asked Naimon. "These programs are
progressively reducing society's environmental burden and contributing to the
corporate bottom line at the same time."

The holdings in the portfolio include Enron and Halliburton, two energy
companies that are unlikely to show up in any other "green" fund.

Halliburton, for example, provides oil drilling services, among many other
resources.

"Though [we do] not share Halliburton management's views of climate change and
exploitation of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, [we] selected Halliburton
based upon its spill prevention and success meeting environmental compliance
requirements relative to its industry peers," Naimon said.

Enron, which has natural gas pipelines and other energy services, is cited also
for its success in spill prevention."Enron [has] a consistent environmental
compliance record, success with waste minimization and comparatively low
environmental cleanup responsibilities," said Naimon. "In contrast to many U.S.
energy firms, Enron has committed the firm to addressing the climate change
challenge and has purchased renewable energy assets over the last few years."

The Environmental Leadership Trust is not a mutual fund but a unit trust, which
means that its managers buy and hold stocks for long periods of time instead of
trading in and out of them on a daily basis. But trusts are regulated like funds
by the SEC, and shareholders can buy and sell their shares at any time.

-----

Fund at a glance

Name: Environmental Leadership Trust

Portfolio manager: Jon Naiman

Top holdings: Enron Corp., Halliburton Co., Florida Power & Light

Gains: Oct. 26, 1999 inception - Dec. 31, 2000: 10.92%

Phone: 888-634-8172

Web site: www.lightgreen.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               6 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           January 3, 2001, Wednesday

ALL THINGS TO ALL PEOPLE
 RESTAURANT REVIEW DISTRICT (IN THE MUSE HOTEL) 1/2 130 W. 46TH ST. (212)
485-2999

BYLINE: STEVE CUOZZO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 044

LENGTH: 651 words


TAKEN with the sexy style of 6-week-old District, we ask why its equally sexy
bar is tucked away like an embarrassing afterthought in a nook behind the dining
room."Because of the church next door," the waiter explains. "You need a certain
number of feet between a church and a bar."

The Almighty himself could not claim to fully know District, a place with more
bells and whistles than a glitzy Times Square office tower. The place might be
serving a different audience for each of its 85 seats, what with a seven-day
schedule, pre-theater menu for tourists, tasting menu for foodies, "luxury box"
menu for free spenders - plus lunch and breakfast, starting tomorrow.

Yet take the plunge we must. District shimmers too much like Broadway, bright
lights, broken hearts and all. It serves richly conceived, globe-trotting dishes
at modest prices. A plate of roast pork loin with prunes, hot toddy sauce and
sauerkraut ($20) makes one earthy alternative for Cond Nasters weary of their
cafeteria, even if a paprika overdose can make it a scorched earth.

The executive chef is Sam DeMarco, once right hand to the great Gray Kunz, and
co-founder of downtown's "creative global" hit First and Merge.

The nabe is Near Times Square, where no hotel checks in without an ambitious
little restaurant in tow. Palladin, in the Time, just closed. At Triomphe, in
the Iroquois, the service was chilly enough to make me dress in layers.

At District, the waiter apologizes he's "between shifts" before he returns to
pour whiskey sours with theatrical flair. The stage likewise inspired David
Rockwell's glam design in silver, gold, green and blond wood, with fat round
booths under proscenium-shaped ceiling arches.

By my count, talented DeMarco has worked for nine restaurants in the past 10
years, from Fire Island to Las Vegas. District claims his far-flung menu
"distills his international repertoire with a focus on France and Italy, along
with a healthy dose of Americana." With so many calls on his creative
imagination, DeMarco and chef de cuisine Robert Curran could use an editor. Some
plates were busier than a Times Square intersection on matinee day.

"Mmmm," we cooed over Parisian-perfect butter-poached lobster ($14) in smooth "
warm citrus fennel foam" blessedly light on fennel. Another evening, layered
potato leek soup ($11) with poached oysters and caviar struck my wife as "a mess
in a bowl" - but the luxurified hot vichyssoise hit the spot.

"Fish and chips ceviche" ($13) funkily paired indifferently marinated mackerel
and fluke with lotus and taro chips. A shaker-full of salt took some starch out
of marjoram-kissed chestnut fettuccine and duck ragout ($11).

Dazzling pink Atlantic salmon ($21), with crunchy bacon, creamed lentils and
chanterelles, brought gasps of pleasure, its buttery sweetness courtesy of
imperceptible grapeseed oil. Hard to believe it shared the table with "crackling
cod" ($21) that was anything but, a flavorless mush under the brandade coating.

"An adventure that grows on you," my friend oohed over the mind-blowing Thursday
night special, "Tokyo roast" ($50 for two). "It started when Sam worked with
Gray Kunz," said the cheerful manager as she described this architectural wonder
that should keep magazine art directors busy - a log of tricolor fish in
concentric circles, with coriander-wrapped, near-raw tuna in the center,
surrounded by warm salmon and cooked swordfish. Fried rice with scallops, shrimp
and quail egg was icing on the cake.

Desserts like $7 lemon meringue and spiced apple pudding, more inventive than
they sound, made a rousing finale. If only District would train the waiter not
to say, "Yes, boss," when you ask for the check.

You can e-mail comments

to: scuozzo@nypost.com


LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The stage is set at District, a new eatery in the West 40s with a "
global" menu and all the shimmer of Broadway. Jonathan Barth

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               7 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              July 8, 2001, Sunday

BULL'S EYE

BYLINE: Beth Piskora, Jessica Sommar & Erica Copulsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 059

LENGTH: 1024 words


The slowdown in Wall Street deals has investment bankers scrambling for ways to
generate fees on deals. Take J. P. Morgan Chase. Up until this week, it looked
like the bank had all its bases covered for making tons of money -perhaps as
much as $8 million - on the hotly contested auction of Emap's U.S. magazines
earlier this week: It was backing two of the leading bidders -a move reminiscent
of the firm's one-time head of investment banking, Jimmy Lee, who now oversees
client relationships and major transactions. Lee made Chase the leading loan
syndicator and provided loans for everyone.

In the Emap bidding war, not only was J. P. Morgan providing mergers advice to
American Media Inc., the Florida publisher backed by buyout-firm Evercore
Partners, it was also planning to provide the financing for the winner.
Meanwhile, it also agreed to provide financing for buyout-firm Texas Pacific
Group should it win.

Unfortunately for the mighty Morgan, Primedia -with the help of its controlling
partner Henry Kravis's Kravis Kohlberg Roberts & Co.- took away Morgan's fees
when it ultimately won.

J. P. Morgan had tried to provide financing for Primedia, as well. But Primedia
turned to KKR for money instead.

Seeing 'Red' on Greenspan vote

FUND managers rarely ever quote Lenin in their annual reports - especially in
the same breath as the revered Alan Greenspan. But the First Eagle SoGen Funds
are doing just that: They say Greenspan is acting like a disciple of the
communist leader.

Managers of the fund are on the warpath in the federal courts in Washington and
in the International Tribunal at the Hague in an uphill battle to revise one of
Greenspan's more low-profile financial acts.

Few know it, but Greenspan and his Fed sidekick William McDonough (president of
the New York Federal Reserve Bank) sit on perhaps the world's most powerful
board. It's not the Fed, it's the International Bank of Settlements in Basel,
Switzerland.

The BIS, which serves as the main bank for the world's central bankers, plots
strategy for global economies and makes tons of money using assets on deposit
from 40 of the world's central banks. Although the U.S. isn't a member,
Greenspan has held his BIS board seat for seven years, for obvious political
reasons.

Most investors here admire Greenspan's latest vote to lower our rates, but his
recent vote on the BIS board is making 130,000 investors hopping mad.

Greenspan and McDonough voted unanimously with the BIS board to yank back the
only remaining shares of BIS from the public's hands - held by the relatively
small $1.7 billion SoGen Funds. Each BIS share, according to a BIS annual
report, is valued at $19,000

The problem? Greenspan and the others voted to pay SoGen just 50 cents on the
dollar for their nearly 9,400 shares, a squeeze-out that's beating SoGen fund
members out of about $90 million, managers say.

"It was a clear violation of U.S. and international law, and BIS may be powerful
enough to get away with it," said fund manager Jean-Marie Eveillard.

"This is a Lenin-style taking of private property and Mr. Greenspan is part of
it," he asserted. Angry letters citing the Lenin remark appear in the fund's
annual report, and missives to several U.S. senators are demanding to know
whether Greenspan needed congressional approval to sit on the BIS board.

Greenspan's office had no comment on the legal dispute.

Wall Street trader turns Hollywood hunk

USED to be young actors were discovered at soda counters. Times have definitely
changed. Ricky Yune, the 29-year-old Asian hunk starring in the smash-up summer
hit "The Fast and the Furious," was discovered in an elevator while working as a
Wall Street trader.

That must be where he learned to be comfortable with risk.

Hollywood, Wall Street - to some, the same world. "It's personal risk versus
risking people's money," Yune said in explaining the difference between
Hollywood and Wall Street.

He later admitted that acting is scarier.

Not that he's afraid to take on scary roles. Yune plays an Asian gang lord in
the movie, which features fast women, fast cars and fast living. The movie is an
adrenaline pumping, money-making machine. Kind of like the average Wall Street
trading floor.

There is a machismo that belongs to traders - to which investment bankers, asset
managers and even retail sales brokers aspire but can't quite achieve.

No wonder Yune seems such a natural in the part of Asian gang lord: He's been to
military school; he's studied tae kwon do, and, of course, he's got those
testosterone-packed years on the trading desk on Wall Street.

Should be an easy switch from a trader to a movie star playing gang lord, no?

Born Richard Sung Yune in 1971 in Seoul, his family emigrated to Silver Spring,
Md., a year later. While at Wharton Business School, Yune did an internship at
Merrill Lynch in New York. After he got his M.B.A., Yune worked at SAC Capital,
a hedge-fund firm on Wall Street.

Yune began modeling to earn money for school. He landed spots in Versace and
Polo Sport ads and moved on to television ads - one with Cindy Crawford. In
Yune's debut, he played a Japanese fisherman in the artsy and compelling "Snow
Falling on Cedars," which starred Ethan Hawke, Youki Ku and Max Von Sydow and
was released in the fall of 1999.

HERE COMES THE SUN

EH-OH, Bill!

Eh-oh, 90 percent of the global desktop market.

Over the hills and far away, in a land called the Pacific Northwest, a friendly
software mogul decided to launch a new version of his operating system.

In keeping with his nature, he made sure the fierce-sounding Windows XP looked
soft and cuddly and warm, with new fuzzy icons and something for all of the
family.

He also made sure when people turned on their computers, they would see a lovely
landscape of green grass, blue sky and fluffy little clouds.

A lot like "TeleTubbbies" - the show aimed at one-year-olds.

"Again, again!" said the courts.

But Bill didn't mind.

Big hug, Billy. Big hug.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: J.P. Morgan's JIMMY LEE.
RICKY YUNE.

Fed Chairman ALAN GREENSPAN

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               8 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 24, 2001, Tuesday

MEDIA WATCH: TIME'S WARMING RETREAT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 035

LENGTH: 578 words


IT took a reader to remind Time magazine of the basic flaw in "Feeling the
Heat," its April 9 environmental manifesto on global warning - and to win an
important admission from the report's author.

The piece warned: "Except for nuclear war or a collision with an asteroid, no
force has more potential to damage our planet's web of life than global warming.
It's a 'serious' issue, the White House admits, but nonetheless George W. Bush
has decided to abandon the 1997 Kyoto treaty to combat climate change . . ."

The point of that, and several companion pieces, was clear: Earth is in imminent
danger, thanks to pollution and other man-made sources, but the new president is
wearing blinders.

In case anyone missed the point, the magazine this week highlights a letter that
thanks Time for its report and adds: "I hope someone reads it to George W.
Bush."

But several readers disputed the magazine's basic argument. The lead graphic on
April 9, spread out over two pages, charted the "world of offenders" on CO2
emissions, and another made suggestions on "How to Ward Off Disaster," yet Tom
Peterson of Salt Lake City noted:

"Nature emits about 95 percent of greenhouse gases, while humans are responsible
for only 5 percent. Add a volcanic eruption here and there, and nature probably
accounts for as much as 99 percent. . . . With the rise of our industrial might,
temperatures haven't risen at all."

How did Time counter this assault on its basic premise, that humans are
destroying the environment? Associate Editor Michael Lemonick agreed that
"nature is responsible for most of the greenhouse gases on Earth."

However, Lemonick insisted, "even the small percentage that is man-made . . .
has been enough to start nudging temperatures upward." Which is not quite what
Time argued in the first place, which is that humans are the prime culprit.

Said Time then: There is "powerful" evidence to support "the case of
human-induced global warming" and it is no longer theoretical that "the planet
is warming up as a result of human activity."

*

ATLANTA Braves pitcher John Rocker probably wishes he'd cited the Bible during
his 1999 tirade against various ethnic groups. Because New York Knicks Charlie
Ward and Allan Houston certainly got off lightly in their anti-Jewish remarks
last week.

Outside of New York, the story barely made waves. As The Post's Phil Mushnick
noted yesterday, NBC (which broadcast the Knicks' opening playoff game)
mentioned the incident in brief "and without an ill word for either" player.

Even much of the local coverage stressed that the players had made remarks which
"some have called anti-Semitic" or - simply- "which offended the Anti-Defamation
League." Few local outlets were as forthcoming as The Record, which accurately
headlined its Sunday story: "Ward Bashes Jews."

Rocker's blast prompted hundreds of front-page stories and coverage on national
TV news. And no one minced words: He was denounced as "racist," "foul-mouthed"
and "baseball's bigot."

Major League Baseball suspended Rocker for 14 days and fined him $20,000. The
Knicks called their players' comments "offensive" but accepted their insistence
that they'd been "quoted out of context."

Hmmm. What is the proper context for statements like, "Jews are stubborn . . .
they had [Jesus'] blood on their hands" and "There are Christians being
persecuted by Jews everyday"?


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rocker wannabe? Allan Houston.  Steven Hirsch

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               9 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 29, 2001, Tuesday

HEADING BACKWARD - NEW YORK STATE'S RETROGRADE GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: Fredric U. Dicker

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 033

LENGTH: 803 words


ALBANY

THERE'S rare agreement between left and right that a climate of regression has
enveloped New York's Capitol.

Back in the post-Watergate 1970s, when the current generation of state leaders
were cutting their political teeth, there was a sense that New York's government
was on the road to badly needed reforms.

New York had adopted new freedom-of-information and open-meetings laws; infused
its arcane budget-making process with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
created a commission to regulate lobbying and influence peddling - and
strengthened its ethics laws.

But the memories of Watergate, the state and New York City fiscal crisis and
other state scandals - state Sen. Fred Ohrenstein's "phantom employees,"
Assembly Speaker Mel Miller's federal indictment, former Comptroller Ned Regan's
"give to get" memo - have long since faded.

The lessons they taught seem to have been lost as well. Hundreds of elected
officials and thousands of government staffers now work in a climate that is
widely seen as both ethically and morally retrograde, and an embarrassment to
the people of New York.

"I think things are going backward at an accelerating rate," said Tom Carroll,
president of the conservative-oriented Change-NY and a former senior staffer in
the Pataki administration and the Legislature.

"I think you had a brief moment of sunshine in 1995, when Gov. Pataki came into
office, but now the clouds have rolled back in."

Blair Horner, legislative director of the liberal New York Public Interest
Research Group and a veteran state government observer, said that "while Albany
has always been a secret place, it has become more secret overall.

"From our point of view, this whole process of government should be transparent,
but it is anything but," continued Horner.

For instance, New York's budget-making process has never been as dysfunctional
as now, despite Pataki's 1994 campaign pledge to end what was then a decade-long
embarrassment of late state budgets.

But things are worse than ever before. In the past, when "three men in a room"
failed to pass a budget, the public was at least able to find out why.

Until just a few years ago, the governor and the legislative leaders would
notify the press when they met behind closed doors - and then emerged, each to
give his side of the dispute.

Those publicly disclosed but "secret" three-way meetings have been replaced by
undisclosed two-way meetings between the governor and each leader, with no
information at all - before or afterward - given to the press.

Over a decade ago, a leaked memo from then-state Comptroller Ned Regan's office
- suggesting you had to give political contributions to get assistance from his
office - sent shock waves through state government, and drew widespread
condemnation.

Today, virtually everyone on the inside of state government is convinced that
the "give to get" rule is the sine qua non of the Albany culture.

That smelly ethical climate was reinforced earlier this year, when two
super-wired former political operatives - Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver's
former spokesman, Patricia Lynch, and former GOP Chairman William Powers -
became "instant millionaire" lobbyists on the strength of their political
connections.

There are many other examples of Albany's backward march:

* The state budget in the past was spelled out line by line. But during the past
few years, in an unprecedented move, Pataki and the legislative leaders pooled
hundreds of millions of dollars in unspecified discretionary accounts, which
they dispense each year by the lights of political expediency.

These huge cash pools have also given legislative leaders even more control over
their individual members, already notorious for their supine pliability.

* Fiscal projections from the governor's Budget Division, once thought
sacrosanct and subject to Wall Street scrutiny, have become fuzzy and suspect,
with Assembly Democrats and even Senate Republicans - Pataki's allies - openly
doubting their accuracy.

* The Freedom of Information Law and the Open Meetings Law are now widely seen
as ineffective, with the Pataki administration routinely taking months to
deliver FOI-releasable documents and the OML's intent - letting the public in on
the decision-making process - unrealized.

* The Legislature's minority parties - Senate Democrats and Assembly Republicans
- have been squashed by anti-democratic rules that make it virtually impossible
for them to amend bills from the floor.

That's made the majority parties even more arrogant - and even less responsive.

Post State Editor Fredric U. Dicker has covered the state Capitol for the past
24 years.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former Comptroller Ned Regan's "give to get" principles are now
standard operating procedure in Albany.  AP

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               10 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 20, 2001, Tuesday

IRAQI TERROR THREAT DRAWS BUSH AND SHARON TOGETHER

BYLINE: Niles Lathem

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 493 words


It may be a coincidence that a sophisticated joint U.S.-Israeli anti-missile
exercise is taking place just three days after American jets bombed Iraqi sites.

But there was no coincidence that Israeli military leaders chose a weekend when
Saddam Hussein vowed revenge to publicize the details of the exercise, including
its code name, Operation Juniper Cobra.

Whether it was intended to or not, this week's anti-missile test was a dramatic
illustration of how two new leaders - President Bush and Israeli Prime
Minister-elect Ariel Sharon - are being forced closer together by increasingly
complex and dangerous challenges in the Middle East.

"It's a dangerous time. Throughout the Middle East there's a lot of room for a
lot of bad things to happen in the coming months and I think it is in the U.S.
and Israel's interests to make it clear our strategic relationship is strong and
won't become less strong," said David Schenker of the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy.

The missile tests coming so soon after the U.S. airstrikes on Iraq recall the
dark days in 1991, when 39 Iraqi Scud missiles rained down on Israel in
retaliation for the U.S. air attacks on Baghdad during Operation Desert Storm.

Ten years later, Saddam is stronger and more bellicose than ever, having
survived years of isolation and prospering from the collapse of U.N. sanctions.

Saddam's efforts to rebuild his prestige in the Arab world by making himself
champion of the Palestinian cause have been resonating lately.

He's now forming a strategic alliance with Syria and his old enemy Iran. And
he's an active supporter of the newly formed "terrorist NATO," a conglomerate
made up of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda, the Lebanese militant organization
Hezbollah and the Palestinian terror groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad, which are
dedicated to the "liberation" of Jerusalem.

Israel is faced with a triple threat - from the Palestinian militants getting
money and logistical support from international Islamic extremists; from
Iranian- and Syrian-backed guerrillas in Lebanon; and from Saddam's Scuds,
several of which survived the Gulf War and may now be capable of being armed
with chemical or biological warheads. Israeli Deputy Defense Minister Ephraim
Sneh called it a "triangle that is forming that has an intent on widening" the
Israel-Palestinian conflict.

But the additional challenge both nations are facing is what CIA Director George
Tenet recently termed "the changing nature of activism on the Arab street."

Increased frustration with economic and political conditions has led many to buy
into Saddam's and bin Laden's agendas, putting pressure on old allies like Egypt
and Jordan to abandon Middle East peacemaking, Tenet warned.

Administration officials admit the changing climate has drawn Bush into the
Middle East quagmire much earlier than he'd planned. Secretary of State Colin
Powell makes his first visit to the region this week.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               11 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 20, 2001, Friday

BUSH IS TURNING A NEW LEAF - BACKS ENVIRO TREATY AIMED AT BANNING TOXIC
CHEMICALS

BYLINE: Brian Blomquist Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 006

LENGTH: 1155 words


WASHINGTON - President Bush, in a high-profile Rose Garden announcement
yesterday, said he'll support a Clinton-era treaty aimed at eliminating a group
of toxic chemicals known as the "dirty dozen."

Flanked by Environmental Protection Agency head Christie Whitman and Secretary
of State Colin Powell, Bush's declaration he'll sign the Stockholm Convention on
Persistent Organic Pollutants caps a week-long pro-environment push leading up
to Earth Day on Sunday.

Earlier this week, Bush closed a loophole on wetlands protection and imposed
tougher reporting requirements on companies that pollute the environment with
lead.

The president's new "green" emphasis comes after he took a beating from
Democrats and environmentalists for scrapping another Clinton plan last month
that would have reduced the amount of arsenic allowed in drinking water.

Bush said earlier this week that he will put his own standards in place to cut
the level of arsenic in the water.

The chemicals that the treaty would outlaw in a worldwide phase-out include
PCBs, dioxins and pesticides, such as DDT, that can contribute to developmental
defects, cancer and other health problems in people and animals.

"The risks are great, and the need for action is clear," Bush said.

"We must work to eliminate, or at least severely restrict, the release of these
toxins without delay."

The treaty, already supported by Canada and Sweden, would have to be ratified by
the Senate.

The Senate voted unanimously against the Kyoto treaty on global warming after it
was signed by Bill Clinton, but banning the "dirty dozen" is much less
expensive.

Most of the poisonous chemicals that would be banned are no longer used in
industrialized countries but persist in many of the poorer ones.

Bush said they "respect no boundaries and can harm Americans, even when released
abroad."

Philip Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, called the
president's support for the treaty an "important step forward in halting the
worldwide spread of dangerous chemicals."

Bush's endorsement also won rare praise from Democrats, who had pushed the
treaty while Clinton was in office.

"This is a victory for public health," said Rep. Sherrod Brown of Ohio, ranking
Democrat on the Energy and Commerce health subcommittee.

Bush said the treaty passed muster because it addressed an international problem
that can affect Americans' health, was negotiated between business and
environmental groups, and was done to help the needy in poor countries.

"And now," he said, "a Republican administration will continue and complete the
work of a Democratic administration. This is the way environmental policy should
work."

---------

'GREEN' LIGHT FOR KEY PROPOSALS

President Bush has walked a fine line on the environment and public health
issues, rolling back some last-minute Clinton regulations, while endorsing
others. Here are some of the key proposals, Bush's decisions, and arguments pro
and con.

* LEAD: Require more companies to report lead released into the air, ground and
water by mandating any firm that emits 100 lbs. of lead a year (down from 10,000
lbs.) must report it.

* BUSH DECISION: Keep it.

* PRO: It's been proven that long-term lead exposure is harmful, so advocates
hope that by forcing 9,800 more companies to report their lead emissions, many
will also move to "get the lead out."

* CON: It's more costly to small businesses, over $100 million in the first year
alone.

* KYOTO: An international treaty to trim emissions, particularly carbon dioxide,
by one-third over 11 years to combat global warming.

* BUSH DECISION: Kill it.

* PRO: Bush concedes global warming is occurring, but says he's not sure of the
cause. Many scientists say one reason is the emission of so-called "greenhouse
gases" and warn the long-term results could be catastrophic - rising oceans and
less land for the world's growing population.

* CON: It would cost hundreds of billions of dollars to implement. Several
leading scientific journals - including "Nature," "Climate Research" and "the
Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society" - also say it's not clear that
gas emissions are even the cause of global warming. The Senate voted against
Kyoto 95-0.

* CARBON DIOXIDE: Reduce emissions.

* BUSH DECISION: Kill it.

* PRO: Environmentalists say CO2 is the gas that's the biggest cause of global
warming and the United States has the worst record on cutting it.

* CON: The price tag for reducing CO2 by 7 percent would be more than $100
billion a year for utilities, which would pass the expense on to consumers.
Industries that burn fossil fuels, notably coal, also would have to pay enormous
costs to trim CO2 emissions.

* ARSENIC: Lower the allowable amount of arsenic in drinking water by 80 percent
- from 50 to 10 parts per billion.

* BUSH DECISION: More study, but pledged to reduce arsenic by at least 60
percent.

* PRO: The National Academy of Sciences concluded that long-term exposure to
arsenic in drinking water - at the current allowable level of 50 parts per
billion - would probably cause cancer in 1 percent of those living in
high-arsenic areas, which include New Mexico and New Hampshire. The level of 10
parts per billion, proposed by Clinton, has been adopted by the World Health
Organization.

* CON: Bush said Clinton rushed the new rule without enough scientific study -
and the expense for cutting arsenic is about $5 billion per year. In New Mexico,
where arsenic levels are high due to the mining industry, it would cost $500
million to lower the level in local water systems.

* SALMONELLA: Test hamburger for the bacterial disease before it's put in school
cafeterias.

* BUSH DECISION: Keep it.

* PRO: About 5 percent of the beef offered for school lunches last year tested
positive for the bacteria, which sickens 1.4 million and kills 600 people each
year.

* CON: The rules are stricter than those imposed on restaurants, and some
slaughterhouses say the new requirements will put them out of business.

* WETLANDS: Close a loophole that builders used fill in wetlands by requiring
them to first get a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers.

* BUSH DECISION: Keep it.

* PRO: The Clean Water Act aims to prevent the filling of wetlands - ponds,
swamps and streams - by builders. But some were skirting the law by digging
ditches next to wetlands to drain them, then building where the wetlands used to
be.

* CON: Some property-rights advocates say the government is reducing the value
of their property by denying them the right to do what they want on their own
land.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Bush, flanked by EPA Administrator Christie Whitman and
Secretary of State Colin Powell, leave the White House Rose Garden yesterday
after announcing the United States will take part in an international treaty to
reduce environmental toxins.  AP

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               12 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              June 3, 2001, Sunday

CRASH COURSE IN SAFETY IT'S NOT JUST CELL PHONES THAT DISTRACT MOTORISTS

BYLINE: LEONARD GREENE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 009

LENGTH: 692 words


The nationwide public backlash against dialing while driving could pave the way
to crackdowns on a host of other behind-the-wheel distractions, from eating a
burger to putting on makeup, safety experts said.

Anything that takes a driver's hands off the wheel or eyes off the road - from
finding a radio station to checking a map - could face new scrutiny under safety
campaigns being launched across the country.

While no official interviewed foresees the day when drivers are pulled over and
ticketed for turning around to chastise their kids in the back seat, the climate
could be right for law enforcement to factor in and penalize such behavior when
drivers are stopped for other offenses.

Right now, officials agree, cell-phone use on the road is being unfairly
targeted as the big problem.

"If we focus on one distraction and think that's going to solve the problem,
we're doing everyone a big disservice," said Kathy Lusby-Treber, executive
director of the Washington-based Network of Employers for Traffic Safety.

She said her organization is encouraging police departments to pay more
attention to other offenses in the wake of its research that shows that
cell-phone use does not rank anywhere near the top of the list of driver
distractions.

That research was backed last month by a new study by the AAA Foundation for
Traffic Safety, which found that cell phones distract drivers less than
adjusting the car radio, setting vehicle controls or eating and drinking.

But perception is different from reality.

In an informal Post poll, motorist after motorist listed cell-phone use as the
most distracting driving activity, despite the studies.

"I'm surprised it's so low" on the list of driver distractions, said Robert
Suerro as he waited to buy fuel at a West Side gas station. "Almost everybody
has a phone."

While some safety experts and legislators dismiss the findings because
cell-phone use has exploded since the data was compiled, the debate has put more
attention on unfocused drivers.

After all, it wasn't a cell phone call that was responsible for the accident in
which Jason Williams found himself recently. The Bronx driver uses a hands-free
device when he drives and talks, but that didn't stop him from wrecking his car
when he took his eyes off the road to change a CD.

"Yeah, I was listening to my music," he said sheepishly while filling his tank.

Scott Gilman, a Manhattan personal-injury lawyer, sees this all the time, and
says cell-phone users are not the worst offenders.

"Some people even think a distraction excuses them," Gilman said. "They say
aeIt's not my fault the kids in the back were going nuts.' They think that's an
excuse that absolves them of liability."

Meanwhile, legislators are bracing for the lawsuits they say are sure to come
from drivers who will challenge recent cell-phone bans.

Restrictions have already become law in Suffolk and Westchester counties. And
Gov. Pataki - armed with a poll that says 85 percent of New York's registered
voters favor outlawing cell-phone use while driving - has called for a statewide
ban.

"Someone will make a point that this law only affects one element of
distraction," said George Latimer, chairman of the Westchester County Board of
Legislators.

"When that lawsuit happens, we're going to watch it closely and defend our
logic."

Legislators who have pushed for cell-phone bans say they recognize the range of
distractions, but have targeted cell phones because the industry can address the
problem with hands-free devices.

"If the technology existed for eating a pizza without taking your hands off the
wheel, we'd legislate it," said Rep. Gary Ackerman (D-N.Y.), who is pushing a
bill that would reduce federal highway funds for states that do not enact
cell-phone bans.

Crash Course in Distraction

These are the top crash-causing driving distractions in the United States:

29.4% Things outside car

11.4% Adjusting radio, CD, etc

1.7% Eating and/or drinking

1.5% Cellphone use

10.9% Other occupants

2.8% Climate or other vehicle controls

Source: AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               13 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             July 29, 2001, Sunday

THE MICK'S A MARVELOUS RIDDLE

BYLINE: Jimmy Cannon

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 076

LENGTH: 695 words


YOU'RE Mickey Mantle. You're a bubble-gum kid in a chew-tobacco league. The
climate of your youth varies as though all the seasons of existence pass through
your life in a single week. On how many hot summer days have you shivered with
the wonder of being Mickey Mantle? But often the sun sets before noon.

There are instances when it's all big and clear. Then you're Mickey Mantle, the
guy you yearned to be back in Commerce, Okla. Who is the stranger? What is
genuine? It's so easy to become mixed up when the weather of your popularity
changes in the time it takes to play a nine-inning ball game.

You're Mutt Mantle's boy, Mickey. You were given the name of a famous stranger
who seemed to live at your house although he never passed through your own town.
Your old man wanted to be Mickey Cochrane and that's how you got your name. You
want to be Mickey Mantle. And yesterday at Ebbets Field in the third inning you
were.

You busted the game ajar by hitting a home run with the bases filled. The first
pitch Russ Meyer threw you was a breaking ball. You hit it left-handed to right
center, away from your power.

You moved lightly with that big-bodied jogging gait. Your head was cocked. You
were smiling. At the plate a delegation of guys who had scored ahead of you
waited. They grabbed your hand, shoved you gently, slapped your back. The other
guys came off the bench. They pulled you into the dugout, mauling you, cuffing
you, knocked your cap off and rubbed your tooth-brush crew-cut. The chew-tobacco
guys were awkwardly honoring a bubble-gum kid.

That put you into the book with Elmer Smith, of Cleveland, Tony Lazzerri and Gil
McDougald before you. In fifty Series, only these three had hit a home run with
three on, But you're also in the guides for striking out five consecutive times
in this Series.

The sky may be serene and beautiful but a blizzard across your day. Either
they're measuring your home runs or tabulating your strikeouts. Why, they sent
you down to Kansas City in '51 when you were leading the Yankees in runs batted
in.

*

It was a sloppily played game as the Yankees beat the Dodgers 7. But for you it
was like Thursday when you won the second game with a home run in the eighth
inning. But that seemed like ages ago. It is as though all the seasons had
rotated countless times but all of them were winter, bitter and freezing and
always night.

Thursday you're Mickey Mantle and they gave your wife a thousand dollars worth
of merchandise to go on a television program. But the next day Carl Erksine
struck you out four times, keeping the fast ball tightly inside. A bus ride
across the river, form Yankee Stadium to Ebbets Field, into another climate,
into another season, a journey to another land.

You're Mickey Mantle but for you baseball isn't a game as the spectator
understands it. It's a living and a job and all you know. It's the whole thing.
Without it, you're a pick and shovel roustabout digging fence posts back in
Commerce. After each strikeout, you walked back to the dugout and sat down. The
manager ignored you. The other guys kept you away from you. They let you alone
in the clubhouse. You sat there, dazed hurting with disgrace. What is there to
say to a kid who could be the greatest of this era.

So Friday Casey Stengel had you leading off. What the hell kind of spot is that
for a long ball hitter? Did Joe DiMaggio ever lead off or Ted Williams or Jimmie
Foxx? The hell they did. And they're the guys they compared you with only a few
months ago.

You can run. Generally, if you push a ball past the pitcher, you're safe. But
you're supposed to be the guy who busts up ball games and here they get you
doing it with pokes and running. You got a hit Thursday but you struck out
twice. Stengel had you hit fifth yesterday.

*

You're Mickey Mantle and who throws harder or with more accuracy? Who runs
faster? Who hits a longer ball? Did you damage yourself beyond repair when you
played lame-legged early this season? Are you the Mickey Mantle who is in the
records for striking out five straight times? Or are you the Mickey Mantle who
hit yesterday's bases-loaded home run?

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               14 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          February 14, 2001, Wednesday

ALAN GREENSPAN MAKES INVESTORS GO FOR 'SELL' BUTTON

BYLINE: Paul Tharp

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 055

LENGTH: 485 words


Alan Greenspan put Wall Street back into hibernation.

After telling Congress, "We are not in a recession," stocks and bonds sank
yesterday.

Investors had expected the Federal Reserve chairman to give a more dour outlook
for the economy, which would have clearly signaled another rate cut in March.

Although Greenspan said the ride ahead would be bumpy, the economy will still
produce a growth rate of 2 percent to 2.5 percent by the end of the year.

Analysts said it caused traders to scale back their expectations of a rate cut
next month. "Some people were disappointed that Greenspan did cite some signs of
strength in the economy," said Ned Riley, chief investment strategist at State
Street Global Advisors.

Another market strategist said Greenspan "got a free pass from Congress."

"They didn't question him on anything about the Federal Reserve and the funds
rates," said Larry Kudlow of ING Barings. "Instead they asked him political
questions for three hours - tax cuts and budgets, not the things we wanted to
hear from him."

The Nasdaq dropped 61.94, or 2.49 percent, to 2,427.72. For the year, it's down
1.7 percent.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 43.45, or 0.40 percent, to 10,903.32. The
Dow is up 1.08 percent for the year. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 11.51, or
0.87 percent, to 1,318.80, leaving the S&P down 0.11 percent for the year.

Further dashing hopes of a quick rate cut was a good-news report from the
Commerce Department prior to Greenspan's speech.

The government report said retail sales rose more in January than any month
since September, led by increased business at auto dealers, department stores
and in building supplies.

Sales rose 0.7 percent to $273.3 billion last month following a 0.1 percent
increase in December, signs that consumer confidence is still strong and not
pushing the economy into recession.

The Federal Reserve has already lowered interest rates by one percentage point
in the last month to keep the economy from stalling completely.

Greenspan said companies have excess stockpiles of inventories that will take
most of the year to work off.

In the battered tech sector, Intel Corp. fell $2.13 to $32.44 after Credit
Suisse First Boston panned Intel's chances for a recovery this year and
downgraded its shares.

Lucent Technologies lost $1.26 to $13.54 after its quarterly loss of $1 billion
triggered credit rating downgrades by Moody's Investors Service and Standard &
Poor's to a notch just above junk status.

Among blue chips, United Technologies gained $2.40 to $77.40 on a rosy profit
outlook, and Eastman Kodak added 48 cents to $45.68 after reaffirming its
earnings outlook.

Drug maker Pharmacia Corp. fell $2.60 to $51.63.

U.S. Treasuries also retrenched on Greenspan's remarks.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISAPPPOINTING: Alan Greenspan said the country isn't in a recession,
which was bad news to traders.  AP

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               15 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           February 18, 2001, Sunday

SONG' TAKES FOUNTAIN

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 076

LENGTH: 482 words


HALLANDALE BEACH, Fla. (AP) - It sounds like a Final Four matchup: Bobby Hurley
against Rick Pitino. The former Duke star and former Kentucky coach own Triple
Crown contenders, and both will likely race in next month's Florida Derby.

Songandaprayer, owned by Hurley, went wire to wire as a long shot yesterday in
winning the $200,000 Fountain of Youth Stakes at Gulfstream Park. The more
highly touted A P Valentine, owned by Pitino, finished third making his
3-year-old debut in a seven-furlong allowance race that followed the feature.

Both colts are next expected to enter the $1 million Florida Derby on March 10.

"I did get a chance to run into Coach Pitino," Hurley said. "I know he has an
outstanding horse, and I wish him all the luck. Maybe we'll run into each other
sometime."

A P Valentine's trainer, Nick Zito, said he was satisfied with his colt's
showing on a warm day after a long layoff. He ran seventh for most of the race,
then rallied to finish 61/2 lengths behind winner Hero's Tribute.

"This is OK," said Zito, who has trained two Kentucky Derby winners. "The race
he ran I'm happy with, other than winning. He just has to keep going forward,
that's all. I'll get him there. This is a wonderful horse."

A P Valentine began the weekend as the co-favorite in pool 1 of the Kentucky
Derby future book. He'll likely lose ground to Songandaprayer, who ran 1 1-16
miles in 1:43 2-5 and won the Grade 1 feature by 21/2 lengths.

Songandaprayer, purchased last year for $1 million, is from the first crop of
Unbridled's Song. Hurley owns 85 percent and DJ Stables of New Jersey owns 15
percent.

Hurley, who has half a dozen 3-year-olds, said he never previously spent more
than $170,000 on a thoroughbred.

"When I started out I didn't think of going this high for a horse, but now I'm
glad I did," he said. "I was screaming so much when they were coming down the
stretch that I lost my voice for a while."

His colt broke on top in a field of 11, pulled away at the top of the
backstretch and opened up a four-length lead. Favorite Outofthebox closed to
11/2 lengths at the top of the stretch but could get no closer.

Songandaprayer, ridden by Edgar Prado, maintained a relatively even pace
throughout, posting fractions of 23.82, 46.96, 1:10.96 and 1:36.44.

"We really expected to try to run off the pace," trainer John Dowd said.
"Everybody seemed to have the same idea of running third or fourth. We inherited
the lead, and he did a great job taking advantage of it."

The winner went off at 18-1.

"I lost a bet on that," Dowd said. "I bet Bobby he would be 5-1 or less, and
Bobby took the over."

Songandaprayer paid $38, $14 and $9. Outofthebox, who was left at the gate,
recovered to pay $4.20 and $3.20. City Zip, who trailed Outofthebox by
three-quarters of a length, paid $3.80. Global Gait finished fourth, another
41/2 lengths back.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               16 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 15, 2001, Tuesday

R.E.M.'S DEEP

BYLINE: Dan Aquilante

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 047

LENGTH: 951 words


R.E.M.

"Reveal"

Warner Bros.

When you talk about electric Southern rock, names that come to mind are the
Allman Brothers, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Little Feat and, most recently, the Black
Crowes.

Yet, without concession to the blues, country or hillbilly chic, Georgia's
R.E.M., on its new "Reveal," conjures antebellum life - pastoral, genteel and
intellectual - without sounding wimpy.

On the dozen songs of "Reveal," R.E.M. (still minus a permanent drummer, since
the departure of founding member Bill Berry) sounds as if its grown used to
being a trio.

While it's always dangerous to speculate what singer/songwriter Michael Stipe is
saying in the deep cipher of his lyrics, one theme that recurs in most of the
songs is the notion of finding a place where you feel comfortable - both
physically and metaphysically.

Musically, guitarist Peter Buck's acoustic and electric fret work blends
seamlessly with the electronic noodlings used to fatten up the sonics. Stipe is
in amazingly clear voice, but missing are the reedy harmonies with bassist Mike
Mills that added so much to the band's past hits.

Of all this disc's quirks, the Brian Wilson-esque "Beachball" and "Summer Turns
to High" are the most noticeable oddities. The mood and melody on each are
accessible as they create a warm, summery feel. That brightness is even found on
the jangly ballad, "I'll Take the Rain."

While some will find it hard to believe, R.E.M. - a band that meditated on death
and loss for the entire length of its masterpiece, "Automatic for the People" -
has found a place it feels light and happy.

This is one of those albums that requires the listener to work a little and
listen with care; it gets a little better with each spin.

MISSY ELLIOTT

"Miss E . . . So Addictive"

Elektra Entertainment

Want to hear the future of R&B-influenced hip-hop? Listen to Missy Elliott's
"Miss E . . . So Addictive."

On this remarkable album, Elliott elevates the genre with innovative use of
combined electronic and acoustic rhythms, gliding vocals pressed against
rapturous emceeing and arrangements that go global to achieve exotic, often
erotic, styling.

That exotica is extreme on the album's breakout single, "Get Ur Freak On," where
sudden-stop vocals, a simple sitar melody line and rapid-fire tabla rhythm raise
the hip-hop standard. This song alone makes this album a worthy addition to your
music library, but it's is hardly the end-all of this 16-track collection.

"Scream a.k.a. Itchin' " directly follows "Freak On" and Elliott ups the ante
with a sexy rap cha-cha set to a double-Dutch tempo. Then there's the sultry "4
My People" that has Missy in duet with Eve against a weirdly tuned guitar with
deadened strings. This is an eclectic album that even steps way out when it
dabbles in dance-hall toasting on "Whatcha Gon' Do," performed with Missy's
longtime musical partner, Timbaland.

Loads of rap's royalty turned out in force for Miss E's third studio disc -
Redman, Jay Z, Busta Rhymes, Ludacris, Ginuwine and Method Man. There's not a
scrub among them.

This wonderful disc soars as it combines the best elements of pop, hip-hop and
contemporary R&B in ways that nobody has tried until now. It will be on
everybody's top 10 list at the close of 2001.

GO-GO'S

"God Bless the Go-Go's"

1/2 Beyond Music

After a 17-year vacation, the original Go-Go's have patched things up, buried
the hatchet and try to prove they still have the beat, with mixed results, on
"God Bless the Go-Go's."

The girls from this back-from-the-dead band, whose name still has cachet, have
floundered in all their individual solo records. So while the fortysomething
quintet still has any youth appeal, it's mounting a comeback built around this
disc.

Unfortunately, the musical formula that mixes SoCal surf beats with three-chord
punk and girl-group harmonies sounds shopworn.

Even when the singers enlist Green Day's Billy Joe Armstrong to soup up the disc
with his song "Unforgiven," the muddled result is a child-frightener.

Lead singer Belinda Carlisle is most arresting on the disc's two prettiest
tunes, "Apology" and the old-fashioned rocker "Insincere."

THE STRING CHEESEINCIDENT

"Outside Inside"

Sci Fidelity Records

Strapped with the worst handle in rock 'n' roll, the String Cheese Incident
makes up for its ill-conceived moniker with a we-ain't-no-Limburger disc.

On "Outside Inside," the quintet from Colorado's thin-air country deliver 11
upper-atmosphere melodies that are all original, yet nicely recall post-"Shake
Down Street" Dead.

Unlike the SCI's breakthrough disc, "Carnival '99," this is a studio offering
that leans heavily on melody rather than the electricity the group generates
through building, surging jams and extended solos.

Cheeseheads won't feel deprived because even here there is plenty of room for
the band to show instrumental virtuosity.

The lyrics are uniformly optimistic and often suggest that experiences in nature
will heal the wounds technology and modern urban life inflict on minds and
souls.

The title track will be a favorite for its funk/rock blend where the guitar and
organ work recall some of the musical duels the late Jerry Garcia had with his
pal Merl Saunders. The rap 'n' roll of "Joyful Sound" is also very good and
nicely illustrates how the Cheese whizzes aren't stuck in the past.

For those who knew the band from way back, when it was just another Colorado
bluegrass outfit hoping to score at the Telluride, the final track, "Up the
Canyon," pays tribute to its string-band days.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: R.E.M. - (from left) Peter Buck, Mike Mills and Michael Stipe - has
found a place that's light and happy.

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               17 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           August 11, 2001, Saturday

ROMANCING ROTH: SONY WAITS TO NAME JOE CHAIRMAN

BYLINE: PAUL THARP

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 019

LENGTH: 293 words


Hollywood hit-maker Joe Roth is a step closer to taking the helm of Sony
Pictures' struggling studio.

Roth, who as an independent has been making all of Julia Roberts' and Adam
Sandler's pictures, is being wooed by Sony's big bucks and global clout.

But Sony will have to wait at least three more months to bring Roth aboard, due
to conflicts and non-compete clauses spread throughout his current Hollywood
deals.

To keep the chairman's seat warm for Roth, Sony yesterday extended the contract
of its current Chairman John Calley, a 71-year-old veteran who plans to retire
as soon as Roth signs on.

Sony's U.S. chief, Howard Stringer, said that by extending Calley's contract
until the end of 2003, "I effectively buy myself a year and a half."

Roth may face some industry conflicts if he takes over Sony Pictures and spends
less time with his year-old production company, Revolution Pictures.

Roth's Revolution Pictures has exclusive deals with Julia Roberts and Adam
Sandler to make their films, plus some investor obligations to backers that
include Fox Entertainment, Starz and Sony itself.

Roth, 53, will also use the extra time during Calley's extension to work out his
own career path and to tie up any loose ends.

Roth has said he intends to take an expanded role in the Sony relationship in
November, when his non-complete agreement with Disney expires. Sony would be the
third major studio Roth has chaired.

Roth headed 20th Century Fox from 1989-1992, and Disney Studios from 1994 to
2000, when he left to form Revolution.

Stringer has openly courted Roth for the last three years. He even helped plow
Sony's millions into Roth's Revolution Pictures and set up Sony distribution for
him.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOE ROTH Needs time.

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               18 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

U.S. FLIER TELLS OF CRASH ORDEAL

BYLINE: Post Wire Services

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 750 words


WASHINGTON - The four crew members of an Air Force B-1 bomber were plucked from
the Indian Ocean yesterday in a daring night rescue after the supersonic jet
went out of control on a mission to Afghanistan.

The four were forced to eject at 15,000 feet after the $280 million bomber
malfunctioned shortly after taking off from its base on the island of Diego
Garcia. The plane then crashed into the ocean 60 miles north of the island.

The crew spent two hours in the water before being picked up by the USS Russell,
a Navy destroyer.

"Going through an ejection like that is about the most violent thing I've ever
felt," the pilot, Capt. William Steele, said in a satellite call from the
Russell.

"We're all pretty bruised up and have some cuts. But overall, we're doing very
well."

The crew reported an "in-flight emergency" about 100 miles north of Diego Garcia
and tried to return to the island, but were forced to eject in darkness 15
minutes later.

Steele said the bomber had "multiple aircraft system malfunctions."

"The aircraft was out of control, and we all had to eject," he said.

An Air Force KC-10 refueling aircraft on an unrelated mission picked up the
signal from an emergency transmitter and found the crew, guided by flares,
beacons and strobe lights marking their positions.

"We all carry a survival belt and a seat kit, which contains radios and several
marking devices so that everybody can see us," Steele explained.

During the two hours the crew was in the water, he said, there was no evident
threat of sharks.

"The water was warm," he said. "It was actually kind of comfortable."

The bomber is one of at least eight U.S. B-1B and B-52 heavy bombers that have
dropped thousands of tons of bombs on targets in Afghanistan since Oct. 7.

The crash was the first loss of a manned U.S. warplane in the campaign against
Taliban and al Qaeda guerrilla forces in Afghanistan.

Several unmanned intelligence aircraft and U.S. military helicopters have
crashed.

In recent weeks B-1 and B-52 bombers have been circling Afghanistan, waiting for
U.S. Special Operations troops on the ground to direct them to targets.

Pentagon officials said any loss of such an aircraft is regrettable, but they
expressed relief that all of the crewmen are safe.

The B-1B, originally built to deliver nuclear bombs to the heart of the Soviet
Union during the Cold War, has been upgraded in recent years to carry
precision-guided conventional bombs and missiles.

The wings on the sleek B-1B swivel backward in flight to increase its speed to
more than 900 mph. The aircraft has been packing sophisticated electronic
sensors and targeting devices in recent years, and can deliver dozens of
precision-guided conventional bombs and missiles.

The B1-B was delivered to the U.S. Air Force between 1984 and 1988 by a unit of
Rockwell International later bought by Boeing Co., but was not used in combat
until the war in Kosovo in 1999.

A total of 100 were built, but only about 90 remain in the Air Force arsenal.

-------

MAKING A SPLASH

B1-B LANCER

PRIMARY FUNCTION: Long-range, multirole, strategic heavy bomber holds several
world records for speed, payload and distance.

POWER PLANT: 4 GE turbofan engines with afterburners

LENGTH: 146 feet

WINGSPAN: Swing wing design for short takeoff and fast escape. 137 feet
extended, 79 feet swept back

TAKEOFF WEIGHT: 477,000 lbs.

SPEED: 600+ mph (Mach .92) at 500 feet, 825 mph (Mach 1.25) at 50,000 feet

RANGE: 7,455 miles, unfueled, 3,444 miles with normal weapons load

CEILING: 60,000 feet

CREW: Four (aircraft commander, pilot, offensive systems officer and defensive
systems officer)

BOMB CAPACITY: Conventional bombs: 84 Mk 62 or 82 bombs, 30 CBU 87, 89 or 97, 12
Mk 65

SMART bombs: 30 WCMD, 24 JDAM, 12 GBU-27 2,000 lb. bombs, 12 AGM-154 JSOW, 2
TSSAM cruise missiles

UNIT COST: $200-plus million per aircraft

*

In an in-flight emergency, pilot would jettison bombs as a matter of crash
procedure.

Bombs would not be armed

B-1B would probably be refueled in both directions by airborne tankers normally
over the Arabian Sea.

B1-B has ejector seats with gyroscopes, rockets and computers in the seat.

Exerts 15-20 G force in 4-5 seconds

Ejection is so violent, pilot's spine compresses by 1 inch and requires a full
medical examination afterward.

Unwritten law that pilot has to buy a case of beer for the guy who packed his
parachute.

Source: Tim Brown, Global Security

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               19 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 5, 2001, Friday

RUDY'S SEX-SHOP SUCCESS

BYLINE: Eric Fettmann

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 816 words


WITH Rudy Giuliani now in his final year in office, expect to see a spate of
revisionist news stories detailing his alleged failures. The Times fired the
first salvo this week with a piece suggesting that the mayor's well-publicized
crackdown on sex shops and porn palaces has been a bust.

In a 2000-word front-page story, the Times reported that 142 so-called adult
businesses now operate in New York City - just two fewer than in 1998, when
Giuliani first launched his anti-smut campaign. The article says the major
reason for the industry's resilience is repeated court rulings upholding the
60-40 provision, first championed by the city, under which no more than 40
percent of a store's inventory and space can be devoted to porn videos or
topless dancing.

But this is one area of the quality-of-life campaign that can't accurately be
measured in statistics.

First off, it's hard to believe that even Giuliani ever really thought he could
drive the sex industry out of town entirely, though that was his stated goal.
But the mayor is right when he says that the nature of the business - and, more
importantly, its effects on surrounding neighborhoods - has changed drastically.

Times Square is only the most visible sign of that change - but also the most
critical one. Once a national symbol of decay, neglect, seediness and crime -
the embodiment of America's urban sewer - it's now a family-friendly venue that
encourages people to come to the city.

The same holds true in other locales, especially outside Manhattan. Yes, topless
clubs and adult-video stores still exist, but they aren't clustered together.

They're gone from residential neighborhoods or from proximity to schools and
houses of worship - all thanks to Giuliani's crackdown. And the establishments
themselves are more discreet; they don't stand out garishly, inviting
disreputable elements into local neighborhoods.

For while the Times insists that sex-industry opponents "argued, without
definitive proof, that they attracted criminals and reduced property values,"
the U.S. Supreme Court acknowledged the point just last year.

In upholding legislative bans on nude dancing, the court accepted the notion
that such activity carries with it "negative secondary effects" like crime and
prostitution. And, the court ruled, government has a right to seek to end such
effects - even if the regulations themselves don't actually so do.

If the sex industry survives today, it does so as the weakened survivor of an
all-out war. It remains on the defensive, constantly needing to seek out fresh
legal strategies and anxiously anticipating the next onslaught from City Hall.

Because if the Giuliani crackdown has done nothing else, it's changed the
political climate in which people waxed nostalgic for the seedy, crime- and
porn-ridden Times Square. No one romanticizes the old 42nd Street anymore.

Nor is it likely that voters will ever again take seriously a candidate for
mayor who - like Ruth Messinger - defends sex shops as "an important part of our
city's economic and tourism-industry base," and claims that they "invigorate"
gay neighborhoods and are "an integral part" of such neighborhoods' "fabric."

Public Advocate Mark Green, gearing up for his City Hall bid, has backed off
from his initial opposition to the Giuliani crackdown, which he said violated
the city's "history of tolerance and diversity." Two years ago, he told the
Village Voice he generally supports zoning-law curbs on sex shops, except "where
the community supports the shops."

Of course there will always be the types like the New York Civil Liberties
Union's Norman Siegel and sex-industry legal mouthpiece Herald Price Fahringer,
who cling to the notion that "sexual freedom is a fundamental issue" and that
waging war against porn palaces is "a sad day for the principles and values of
free expression - especially sexually explicit material."

But most politicians finally accept that the sex industry harms the city and
destroys its neighborhoods. And that, ultimately, is what the mayor's
quality-of-life campaign has been all about - changing attitudes about limiting
disruptive behavior that frays the public fabric.

Doing that doesn't require total victory - quality of life, Giuliani once said,
"is a process, not a destination. It's a way of living, not a goal." Those who
just look at the overall numbers and see failure are blind to the gains of the
last seven years.

Giuliani himself expressed it best in a major speech two years ago:

"If a sense of tangible improvement reaches millions of lives, and millions of
people understand that the city cares about their annoyances and is working hard
to protect their rights, then more and more people begin to feel the true
optimism of the city. And we begin to feel that, together, we all have a stake
in the city."

E-mail: efettmann@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               20 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 8, 2001, Monday

A STORM-LIKE SNOW JOB?

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 028

LENGTH: 315 words


THE ISSUE: Is global warming a myth?

I wasn't real surprised by the responses to Steve Dunleavy's column on global
warming ("If you believe in global warming, your brain is fried," Dec. 31).

Most of the letters were the shrill extremist views that are rehashed on every
network every night of the week.

The Earth's average temperature has risen only one degree since statistics have
been recorded.

The sky is hardly falling.Donald Malz Portage, Mich.

Is there global warming? Probably.

Is it exacerbated by human activity? Yes, but only about 5 percent of the carbon
dioxide in our atmosphere is due to human pollution of the air.

Rather than disrupt the economies and living standards of the industrialized
nations, maybe it would make more sense to set our scientists to the task of
working out how we can survive as the warming increases.Phillip Dunham
Indianapolis, Ind.

Whatever happened to the "greenhouse effect"? Thank goodness we have it. Could
you imagine how cold it would be without it?Bob & Jenn McKenna Staten Island

Your Delonas cartoon showing people on hold while trying to reach the city's
heat hot line was off-base and misleading (Page Six, Dec. 28).

The wait time on our busiest day of the year, Dec. 26, was 15 seconds. Usually
it's only 3.

Tenants who are cold in their apartments should first notify their landlord,
then they should call the city's heat hot line.

If a landlord is negligent, the city will step in and fix the boiler, do an
emergency fuel delivery or anything else that is necessary to restore heat to a
building and bill the landlord for the cost of the emergency repair.

We've received 85,000 calls so far this winter, and I would hate to think that
your ill-informed cartoon discouraged a tenant who was cold from calling.Carol
Abrams

NYC Department of

Housing Preservation

and Development,

Manhattan

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               21 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           January 16, 2001, Tuesday

NOAH'S FLOOD WAS IN ARABIAN DESERT: STUDY

BYLINE: Bill Hoffmann

SECTION: Metro+Sports Extra; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 198 words


A team of archaeologists believes they have pinpointed the location of Noah's
biblical flood in the Arabian desert.

The researchers, from the University of Manitoba in Canada, say the region was
filled with melting water as the Ice Age began to end around 20,000 years ago.

And they think the rising sea levels flooded the Persian Gulf, which had been a
vast area of dry land.

If the team is right, water would have moved across the Gulf's flat plains at
rates of up to a half-mile a day for more than 1,000 years.

Another team previously suggested the biblical flood tale was a record of the
flooding of the Black Sea as water levels rose in the Mediterranean following
the Ice Age.

But lead researcher Jim Teller tells the Canadian news service CNet that the
geography there "is all wrong" for the source of Noah's flood.

"Our hypothesis places the flood in a geographical area that's far more
agreeable," said Teller, who presented his evidence at the Geological Society of
America in Reno, Nev.

Although many archaeologists doubt the Bible's account of a worldwide flood,
some think a major regional event may have been a source for the flood stories.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               22 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 30, 2001, Friday

PINK SLIPS AT MERRILL - WALL STREET GIANT TO AX 150 INVESTMENT BANKERS

BYLINE: Erica Copulsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 468 words


After dragging its heels while its rivals announce staff cuts, Merrill Lynch is
finally about to join the fray.

The securities firm is planning to dismiss about 150 investment bankers,
according to a person close to the matter. The proposed layoffs, which would
amount to 7 or 8 percent of its banking division, are expected to take place
across various industry and product groups, and at all levels of Merrill's rank
and file, the person said.

By slashing jobs, Merrill would follow a string of securities firms looking to
trim expenses as the market continues to swoon. In the past few weeks alone,
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. has handed out pink slips to about 60 bankers, while
Robertson Stephens Inc. said it would eliminate 80 jobs and Lazard LLC plans to
eliminate about 60 positions.

But for Merrill, led by David Komansky, the issue of layoffs is a particularly
sensitive one. The firm is still stinging from the black eye it got back in the
fall of 1998, when it quickly dismissed 3,400 investment bankers, traders and
others just as the markets turned down. Merrill was criticized for cutting too
deeply and losing ground to rivals when the markets bounced back.

This time around, Merrill has been careful not to overreact, say firm insiders.
The firm has tried to avoid layoffs by implementing hiring freezes and other
cost-cutting measures. For example, executives in the asset management
department were told to rescind several outstanding employment offers and to
review outside consultant contracts.

But as the worsening market climate continues to dash Wall Street executives'
hopes for a quick turn around, Merrill appears prepared to swing the ax.

"We're not anticipating any large, across-the-board cuts," a Merrill spokeswoman
stated, declining to comment specifically on the matter. "We've been focused on
reducing expenses selectively in various businesses, and, with the current
market condition, we will continue to focus on this discipline."

Most brokerage analysts and industry observers say the likely pruning at several
securities firms is long overdue. In fact, they note, the market downturn may
serve as an opportunity to clean house.

In recent years, firms, in their zeal to stay on top of the bull market, scooped
up bankers as fast as they could. Just last year, securities firms, desperate to
keep bankers from joining dot-coms or private equity firms, started doling out
perks ranging from coffee bars to casual dress policies. Several sweetened
compensation packages with stay-put guarantees and rolled out merchant banking
funds that allow employees to invest their own money alongside the firm.

Industry recruiters believe that no Wall Street firm will be able to avoid
layoffs.


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAVID KOMANSKY Cutting staff.  N.Y. Post: Tamara Beckwith

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               23 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 2, 2001, Monday

CLAEYS IS LOOKING AT EMAP BID

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 759 words


BAHRENBURG to the rescue?

D. Claeys Bahrenburg, a former top executive at the magazine company now known
as Emap USA - which includes Motor Trend, Hot Rod, Teen, Guns & Ammo, and For
Him Magazine - is anxious to take another shot at running the now struggling
magazine group.

"I'd love to get my hands on it again," says Bahrenburg, who earlier in his
career was president of Hearst Magazines before becoming vice chairman of
Petersen Publishing - as the Emap USA titles were then known.

But he has not made an overture because he still needs to see the financials. He
also says he won't be doing any deal with venture capital partners this time
around because of the worsening financial climate.

He won't be alone in taking a look, however. The Quadrangle Group, the boutique
investment firm of ex-Lazard Freres executives headed by Steve Rattner is also
going to kick the tires, Media Ink has learned. David Pecker, the chairman and
CEO of American Media, owners of the National Enquirer and Star, also tells
Media Ink he is interested in making a serious bid. He has backing from
Evercore, an investment firm controlled by Roger Altman.

Also said to be in the running is the Paris-based parent company of Hachette
Filipacchi Magazines. But since the company missed out on buying Emap Petersen
the last time around, most don't expect the early interest to translate into a
winning bid this time around.

AOL Time Warner surprised everyone when they purchased the last big group of
men's magazines on the block, the old Times Mirror Magazine Group. But with
cutbacks now the order of the day at the media giant and the ad market slumping,
most don't expect a big bid this time around.

Emap, the London-based parent company, acknowledged last week that it was
considering offers for its U.S. unit, which has been hurt by deteriorating ad
sales and profits that are lower than hoped. Bids this time are believed to be
starting in the $700 million range - which means a potentially huge writedown on
the investment.

Times sure have changed.

Bahrenburg teamed up with James Dunning and Willis Stein & Partners in 1996 to
buy the company from founder Robert "Pete" Petersen for $465 million. They
exited in 1999 when they sold it to British publishing giant Emap for $1.5
billion.

Dunning went on to become the president and CEO of high-tech publishing giant
Ziff Davis Media. He tells Media Ink he has "no interest" in taking another shot
at the Petersen titles.

Bahrenburg has maintained a low profile since leaving Petersen.

One of his best deals was the one not made: He passed up a chance to be an early
investor in Powerful Media.

Jonathan Knee, the man at Goldman Sachs who helped orchestrate the sale back in
1996 for Robert Petersen, is now with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and is expected
to be handle the selloff in this round.

*

Seattle comedian Mike Daisey, a one-time Amazon.com staffer, looks to strike it
rich with a book writing about his experiences at Jeff Bezos' sprawling
e-tailer.

Daisey's been a stand-up fixture in Seattle for years and now he's bringing his
memoir, "Twenty One Dog Years: Doing Time at Amazon," to publishers. Daniel
Green, his agent at James Levine Communications, says one unidentified publisher
already submitted a $100,000 bid as the floor price. He may wrap up the auction
as early as today.

*

S.I. Newhouse Jr. will copy the executive line-up at his Fairchild subsidiary -
where Patrick McCarthy is the editorial director and chairman and Mary Berner is
the president and CEO - when he completes the purchase of the Golf Digest group
from the New York Times Co. today. The check changing hands is estimated at $350
million to $400 million.

The top edit person in the new company, Golf Digest Editor-in-Chief Jerry Tarde,
will become chairman and editorial director of the whole company.

Meanwhile, back at Conde Nast, Allure Publisher Suzanne Grimes had been
approached about jumping ship to AOL Time Warner to be the new publisher of
InStyle.

For Don Logan, CEO of Time Inc. and Ann Moore, president of the People Group, it
would have been a chance to even the score.

Conde Nast CEO Steve Florio, in a major coup, recently lured InStyle Publisher
Louis Cona to be the publisher of Vanity Fair.

Grimes mulled a Florio counteroffer - believed to be in the seven-figure range -
and appears to be staying put.

* Please send e-mail to: kkelly@nypost.com


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: -SHOPPING: D. Claeys Bahrenburg is eager to run Emap USA.  AP
-SUZANNE GRIMES Publisher of Allure.

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               24 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 7, 2001, Saturday

GLOBAL FOGGING OVER KYOTO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 322 words


The Democrat-boosting media are having much fun at President Bush's expense over
the environment. The clich is that the issue will be Bush's "gays in the
military": By officially breaking with the 1997 Kyoto global-warming treaty, the
claim goes, Bush runs the risk of offending middle-of-the-road voters who
support environmental protections.

Maybe.

But as the Media Research Center has noted, when the Kyoto "protocol" was first
presented by the Clinton administration, the Senate overwhelmingly demonstrated
that the agreement was - for all intents and purposes - DOA.

Sen. Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.) sponsored a resolution urging the administration not
to pursue the treaty, which would limit the industrial world's emissions of
greenhouse gases while permitting developing countries to continue their rapidly
growing emissions.

Joining Byrd in rejecting the treaty were such dynamic "anti-environment"
luminaries as Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle (D-S.D.), erstwhile Democratic
vice presidential candidate Joseph Lieberman (D-Conn.), Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.)
and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.).

The final vote: 95-0.

Even Al Gore conceded last year that, if elected president, he'd wait until more
countries signed on before re-submitting the treaty to the Senate.

Much of the media ignored the Byrd measure four years ago. Apparently, the
Senate's universal rejection of an environmental treaty worked on for four years
by a Democratic president wasn't deemed newsworthy.

It's far different now.

The bipartisan rejection of Kyoto is all forgotten. Instead, Republican Bush -
who stated several times during the campaign his opposition to Kyoto - is now
portrayed as "anti-environment" and "pro-pollution."

The truth is, George W. Bush is very much in line with the expressed will of the
U.S. Senate. It is the national media that seems to be emitting excessive
amounts of greenhouse gas.

Nothing new there.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               25 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 16, 2001, Monday

ROSIE'S 600,000 READERS STRONG

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 699 words


ROSIE O'Donnell's new magazine, Rosie - which put 1.3 million copies on
newsstands - is estimated to have sold some 600,000 so far.

With nearly two weeks before it goes off sale, the first issue is selling
briskly and could break the 1 million barrier, which is a major leap over what
ancestral title McCall's used to sell. The 125-year-old McCall's was shut down
in March, and its 3.6 million subscription base was rolled into the new Rosie
title. McCall's was averaging newsstand sales of just over 365,000 copies a
month.

Despite the early demand, there will be no second printing. That means Oprah
Winfrey's magazine's rookie record - 1.5 million newsstand copies for O, the
Oprah Magazine, set a year ago - is likely to stand.

"We are selling out in some places, and we're trying to get copies from places
that have extra," says Diane Potter, the circulation director of Rosie's backer,
Gruner + Jahr USA Publishing. "But we're not going back on press."

The magazine was considered something of a risk because it had Fran "The Nanny"
Drescher on the cover talking about her cancer battle.

Conventional wisdom was that cancer is too much of a downer, and a celeb who had
been out of the limelight could be doubly risky.

But within days, Drescher was deemed hot enough to land a $1 million deal from
Warner Books.

Rosie's early success doesn't mean that Dan Brewster, the CEO of Gruner + Jahr
USA Publishing, is going to continue his spending binge, given his $200 million
deal for Inc. and $360 million deal for Fast Company in the past few months.

Two projects - one for a women's lifestyle magazine to be called Friday and
another for Real People - look as if they will remain glued to the drawing board
for the time being. Friday, intended for women in their 20s and 30s, dropped a 1
million piece direct mail test in December but results appear to have been
disappointing.

"The test results were not conclusive," says Brewster, adding: "My suspicion is
that we will keep our powder dry for a while."

The company was also expecting to do a direct mail test on Real People in March,
but that test has been scrubbed due to the unsettled economic climate.

*

Time Inc. is expected to be chopping down the number of editor-at-large jobs on
the corporate roster as part of its corporate downsizing.

Late Friday, it took the first move in that direction by removing Sandy Bailey
as managing editor of Sports Illustrated for Women and replacing her with Time
Inc. editor-at-large Susan Casey.

Casey was creative director at Outside but resigned after helping it win a
record three consecutive National Magazine Awards for general excellence in the
mid-'90s. She hooked up with Time Inc. about a year and a half ago and had most
recently been helping with the design and launch of eCompany Now, the Fortune
tech spin-off.

The expectation is that Sports Illustrated for Women will change from
spectator-oriented to being more aimed at women who participate in sports.
Bailey is expected to stay with the company as assistant managing editor at
Sports Illustrated.

Neither Bailey nor Casey could be reached. The word could come today.

*

Doug Stanton, author of "In Harm's Way" about the sinking of the USS
Indianapolis in World War II, is sailing to new heights.

Although he wasn't one of the heroes honored by Men's Journal at Milk Studios in
Manhattan on Wednesday night, he had lots to be happy about.

Stanton found out that evening that his book will debut at No. 11 on the New
York Times bestseller list that hits April 22.

His biggest problem of the night? He kept losing track of Giles McCoy, a Marine
private in World War II who was one of only 317 survivors out of a 1,200 man
crew who survived the sinking of the Indianapolis - and who was being honored.
"I lost my Marine," said Stanton, who shrugged, "Well, he survived five days in
shark-infested waters, I guess he can survive on his own for a few hours here."

* Please send e-mail to:

kkelly@nypost.com


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: SUSAN CASEY No longer at large.
COMING UP ROSES:Rosie O'Donnell's magazine could break the 1 million mark before
coming off the racks in two weeks.  Dave Allocca/DMI

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               26 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 20, 2001, Friday

A LESSON IN STAYING ALIVE - STILL KINGS OF ROCK 'N' ROLL, THE BEE GEES MAKE IT
ALL LOOK EASY

BYLINE: Dan Aquilante

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 058

LENGTH: 1026 words


NO tallying of rock 'n' roll royalty is complete without the Bee Gees, who have
built a major musical dynasty.

It's unlikely that anyone will ever equal their 1977 feat of having five songs -
"Staying Alive," "Night Fever," "Shadow Dancing," "How Deep Is Our Love" and
"Emotion" - chart in the top 10 simultaneously. During their 35-year career,
these Rock and Roll Hall of Famers have sold an amazing 110 million albums.
They've been nominated for 16 Grammys - and won seven - and turned out six
consecutive No. 1 hits in one stretch.

Their secret? It's simple: incredible harmonies hitched to a gift for writing
the perfect pop song.

It all started in Australia in 1955, when the three Gibb brothers - Barry, now
53, and the twins, Robin and Maurice, 51, broke a phonograph record they were to
lip-synch to in a local show and had to perform the tune live. They did, wowed a
radio deejay and the rest is history.

While the glory days for many Bee Gees fans was the disco-driven '70s, when
America was in the grip of "Saturday Night Fever," the Brothers Gibb have been
unrelenting, writing pop songs, producing, recording and performing.

Every show on their 1999 world tour was sold out. They have had No. 1 songs in
four successive decades and they will attempt to continue their run with
Tuesday's release of "This Is Where I Came In."

Robin Gibb told The Post, "The idea of the album was for us to get back to our
musical roots. Like 'Bee Gees 1st' [1967], this record has a live feel; a human
feel."

In a rare interview, Robin spoke with The Post about the Bee Gees' history and
musical method, but he was reluctant to speak about himself. When pressed, he
did reveal in a series of quick questions that he prefers to vacation at the sea
rather than the mountains, he'd take a classic Bentley over a new Ferrari and
he'd watch the news instead of the Simpsons. No city penthouses for this Gibb
bro. He prefers to live in the country, and would choose a dog over a cat as a
pet. Oh, yeah. If he comes calling, offer the lad a cup of hot tea.

Post: "This is Where I Came In" sounds as if you and your brothers were trying
give the album a retro element. Was that the concept?

Robin Gibb: We really felt less would be more - less production, less dubbing -
and that would make it more accessible. Retro? No, the music is very now.

Post: Did your back-to-basics method bring you and your brothers closer, like in
the old days, when you'd sit around the kitchen table, playing guitar and
singing?

Gibb: I hope it sounds that way, but the album wasn't recorded that way.

Post: How was it recorded?

Gibb: We each went in our own directions, recorded in separate studios in
different countries - as individuals - and then we got together to record five
of the songs together. What we were after was the live "kitchen table" feel and
individual expression. You know, this is the way The Beatles worked in their
early days.

Post: It's hard to be an individual in a band, especially being brothers. What
are your individual traits?

Gibb: I am more rebellious. For instance, in songs, I like to change things
around a lot more. I kick a song and then shake it to see what comes out. I
don't stick to any formulas. Not that Barry and Maurice write by formula, but
I'm more likely to try something from left field.

Post: What kind of guys are your brothers? Can they take criticism?

Gibb: Yes, but you've got to remember, as writers, we all have a certain amount
of ego. If they don't agree with me, or there is strong resistance to an idea,
I've got to honor that.

Post: The first time many in America heard the Bee Gees music was "The New York
Mining Disaster 1941." It's such a sad song, but there was no mining disaster
here in New York in 1941.

Gibb: It's a sad song, based on a sad story. The year before we wrote that song
(1966), there was a disaster in the mining town of Aberfan, Wales, where 150
school children were killed. It was a coal town and the school was built at the
base of a coal pit, and was buried when one of the walls of the pit slid into
it.

Post: So why move the disaster to New York in 1941?

Gibb: We wanted a tribute song to this disaster, but we didn't feel it was right
to do a song directly about the event. It was better to get some distance with a
fictitious story. It was abstract in its connection with Aberfan, but it had the
proper mood. You know, we never mention New York in the actual lyrics.

Post: That's the song that made people start comparing you guys with The
Beatles.

Gibb: The reason for that was because it created images in your mind, like
Beatles music did. Creating a mental picture is something artists do less and
less these days, but we grew up in the era of song, rather than grooves.

Post: Do you consider that a problem with contemporary music?

Gibb: No doubt about it. That's why music has that manufactured sound; why
today's music is so disposable. The words are just a means to an end - that is,
they are there just to wrap around the groove.

Post: Would you speculate for a moment if the Bee Gees would have made it in
today's music climate?

Gibb: I can't answer that. I've always believed in what we do, but I've never
considered what would have happened if we were starting now. I can tell you, I
have spoken with big music publishing executives and I've asked if they would
sign a talented 15-year-old boy with a guitar who walks into their office and
says, "I sing and write all of my own songs." I was given a categorical "no."
They said that kind of act doesn't suit the times. That means trend is more
important than talent. That's very sad.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The brothers Gibb (from left, Maurice, Barry and Robin) have logged 35
years in the music biz. As young kids in Australia (below, left), they jolted
the record industry with their rockabilly style. By the '70s (center), they were
international superstars - at one point in 1977, they had five songs in the top
10. All through the '80s (right) and '90s, they continued writing, producing and
performing, and next week, they'll release their new album, "This I Where I Came
In."

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               27 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 8, 2001, Tuesday

DEFYING THE PC CAMPUS BOSSES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 043

LENGTH: 451 words


The editors of the Badger Herald, student newspaper of the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, yesterday delivered a stinging rebuke to the rigid ideologues
in their campus administration - and reminded the rest of us of what's wrong in
academia today.

More than 70 administrators at the Madison campus - one of the most radical in
the nation - signed a paid advertisement that appeared in yesterday's paper in
which they castigated the editors for having published David Horowitz's
controversial ad opposing reparations for slavery.

The signers - who included the university's dean of students and director of
undergraduate admissions - called publication of the ad "destructive to the
university's effort to create a welcoming and respectful climate for all
students."

In addition, the editors wrote, the ad "warns students to be more careful in
asserting their freedoms" and "suggest[s] the First Amendment is an obstacle in
their attempts to educate."

Nonsense, replied the editors - who declared it "unsettling to discover such a
blatant disregard for freedom of speech existing among many members of the UW
administration.

"Universities should be places where students are exposed to a diversity of
thought," wrote the editors. "What the administration doesn't seem to understand
is that ideas are meant to be debated - not indoctrinated." Sadly, the editorial
concludes, the university "suffers from too little speech" and "lacks tolerance
for a diversity of ideas."

Must reading for every editor of a campus newspaper.

*

AMAZING how your perspective changes once you go Hollywood.

As chief of staff of the Senate Finance Committee, Lawrence O'Donnell ran the
body that was concerned with cutting the middle class a break on taxes. Now, in
addition to serving as MSNBC's senior political analyst, O'Donnell is a
writer-producer for NBC's hit show "The West Wing" - and boy, has his idea of
the middle class changed.

Speaking on "The McLaughlin Group" recently, O'Donnell ranted: "People with
incomes over $100 million paying the same as someone with an income of $300,000
is ridiculous."

Asks Mickey Kaus of kausfiles.com: "Time to tap into [the] simmering class
consciousness of those $300,000-a-year earners? Nobody hates the rich more!"

*

WHEN is a Democrat really a Republican? When he's indicted, of course.

ABC's Linda Douglass on Friday noted the indictment on fraud, bribery and
racketeering charges of Ohio Rep. Jim Traficant, a Democrat, but claimed that
"this indictment is actually an embarassment to Republican leaders" because
"they gave him $20 million last year for a project in his district in return for
his support of the Republicans."

Oh.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               28 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 14, 2001, Monday

FOOLISH, BOTCHED & INEPT: THAT'S THE FBI

BYLINE: Steve Dunleavy

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 458 words


ALL right, we can't squeeze the toothpaste back into the tube over the FBI's
screw-up on Timothy McVeigh.

But could you imagine if New York City cops dropped the ball as the FBI did, how
loud Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton would be screaming for a federal monitor?

There is a reason for her silence.

Her husband's Janet Reno presided over an ongoing cultural breakdown of the FBI.
Consider the following:

* She treated FBI Director Louis Freeh as if he were her gardener and shattered
top-level morale.

* She was at the helm over the disaster of Waco, which reportedly triggered
McVeigh's crime of the century.

* She handled the Wen Ho Lee case like the gang that couldn't shoot straight.

* She kidnapped little Elian Gonzalez at gunpoint.

But Reno's "collateral damage," as McVeigh would say, is just as disturbing.

She created a climate that is reflected in the FBI's travesty.

No, those 3,150 pages the feds didn't turn over in the McVeigh case won't change
his guilt, which he has shouted from the rooftops. However, it does fuel
hand-wringing liberals in their campaign against the death penalty.

Former talk show host Phil Donahue, a pathological liberal, waved the banner
yesterday on "Meet the Press."

"I think it [the death penalty] reduces our image in the world . . . Timothy
McVeigh's case is Exhibit A."

Conservative Pat Buchanan responded to Donahue: "McVeigh should be dead by now .
. . his case has taken longer than World War II."

Ever since J. Edgar Hoover went to a higher office, the FBI has increasingly
been a politicized fiefdom of those who consider themselves elite - arrogant
models for Brooks Brothers who can't find their ears with their hands.

Some agents - I stress the word some - couldn't shine the shoes of New York City
cops.

The FBI's mistake of omission in the McVeigh case certainly was not by
commission. In fairness, it was the feds themselves who fessed up.

But the long-term result could be devastating. Every tin-pot, ambulance-chasing
criminal lawyer will be using this to get every crook off the hook, not to
mention the monstrosity of McVeigh dodging the needle.

And the death penalty, the will of the people, will be threatened.

The Phil Donahues of the world would have McVeigh doing life.

Oh, what a great idea. He is a celebrity now, and Donahue would make him a
lifetime celebrity like Charles Manson and Sirhan Sirhan.

Great torture for the families of those who were slaughtered on April 19, 1995.

If the FBI's unwitting blunder fuels a liberal fire that somehow can never be
extinguished, then it's about time they hopped on a train and came to New York's
police academy to get a little bit of on-the-job advice.

Maybe Hillary will pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               29 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             May 24, 2001, Thursday

D.C. NEWS HITS MARTS - RALLY ENDS ON EXPECTED POWER-SHIFT

BYLINE: Jessica Sommar

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 029

LENGTH: 533 words


Markets got slammed yesterday, shutting down a six-day rally in tech stocks and
dealing triple-digit losses to blue chips as corporate profit worries and the
threat of a power shift in Washington landed a one-two punch that spurred a
sharp sell-off.

Profit-taking ended a week-long equities rally that was goosed last week by the
Federal Reserve's fifth interest-rate cut this year.

Although markets hadn't had a big swing in days, the bombshell dropped by
three-term moderate Republican Sen. James Jeffords that he was leaving the GOP
sent shockwaves from Washington to Wall Street and swamped stocks.

"It was a tough day," said Cary Leahey, senior economist for Deutsche Bank
Alex.Brown. "The market was whipsawed by the political news that Washington will
be less business-friendly."

The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 151.73 to 11,105.51, or 1.35 percent,
while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index fell a more modest 20.33 points to
1,289.05, or 1.55 percent.

It was the second down day for the Dow, which had been rallying steadily since
April.

But the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index - which had been enjoying a six-day
winning streak for the first time since back in February 2000 - slid 70.37 to
2,243.48, or 2.93 percent.

Before today, the Nasdaq had gained 11 percent in six days and 41 percent from
the 2 1/2-year low of April 4.

Other sources said the pullback was expected.

"We've done a lot of work in the last two months," said Larry Wachtel, market
analyst with Prudential Securities. "The change in the composition of the Senate
does lend a negative pschological influence on some stocks, but mostly we went
from being oversold to now a situation where we are overbought."

"After I've run the two-minute mile," Wachtel added, "I have to take a pause -
and that's what this is."

Today the jobless numbers for the week are expected from the U.S. Labor
department, and on Friday the second revision in the GDP is expected. Neither
number may tell Wall Street what it wants to hear - that the recession has been
fended off.

Moreover, next week, preannouncement of profits and earnings begin, and analysts
think more bad news is coming.

A report from the Economic Cycle Research Institute, which tracks business
cycles in the world's leading economies, said yesterday, "If history is any
guide, recession is likely already here."

Jeffords was expected to announce his defection from the GOP yesterday, but he
postponed his speech until today.

BYE-BYE, RALLY!

Sen. James Jeffords' decision to bolt the Republican Party and leave the GOP
without control of the Senate sent the markets plunging yesterday.

YESTERDAY'S BAD NEWS:

*The Nasdaq composite index -- up more than 11 percent since last Tuesday on a
six-day rally -- fell 70.37 points, or 3.04 percent, to close at 2,243.48.

*The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 151.73, or 1.35 percent, to 11,105.51.

TOMORROW'S BAD NEWS:

*Traders are worried about the weekly jobless numbers out today, after the big
drop in April.

*Friday will bring the revised Gross Domestic Product for the first quarter,
which could show just how bad the economy is.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Senator Jeffords

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               30 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                              May 25, 2001, Friday

BLUELIGHT'S FOUNDER IS CALLING IT QUITS

BYLINE: Joseph Gallivan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 036

LENGTH: 331 words


Spillage in aisle three.

Kmart's BlueLight.com Web site lost its CEO yesterday as the retailer took some
of the Web site's operations in-house.

Veteran dot-commer Mark Goldstein resigned yesterday as trouble hit
clicks-and-mortar operations once again. A spokesman would not confirm how many
other staffers are leaving BlueLight, which had a staff of 194 before today.

BlueLight, which was launched in December 1999, has fancy offices in San
Francisco's Fisherman's Wharf; Kmart is headquartered near Detroit in Troy,
Mich.

The company ran into trouble late last year when it began offering free Internet
service on a national scale in conjunction with Yahoo! However, one local
provider went out of business, and then free usage was limited. Finally the free
service was abandoned in March.

The company would not release sales figures, but spokesman Dave Karraker said,
"The climate for all of retail is difficult at the moment."

Goldstein, who has a lengthy dot-com resume that includes stints at Impulse Buy
Network, NetAngels, Reality Online, and Apple Computer, will become a "long-term
Internet adviser to Kmart."

Kmart's brick-and-mortar stores are the exclusive retail outlet of Martha
Stewart's Everyday line of homewares, and BlueLight is the only place they are
available online. (The Martha By Mail catalog is also available online but
carries different merchandise.)

Asked whether Stewart was annoyed at the change in fortunes, Goldstein told The
Post in an e-mail, "Hell no - we are selling lots of sheets and towels these
days."

Goldstein downplayed his move: "Nothing went wrong, it's just that it's time for
me to pass the baton to Kmart staffers that can best optimize the traffic and
traction we have built. I'm actually very, very pleased."

A spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Omnimedia said the reorg did not affect them.
Stewart's Everyday line is contracted to both BlueLight and Kmart.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MARK GOLDSTEIN The light changed. Bloomberg

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               31 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 18, 2001, Monday

EUROTRASH STARTING TO REEK OF SPOILED WHINE

BYLINE: Steve Dunleavy

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 017

LENGTH: 531 words


PRESIDENT BUSH goes to Western Europe, graveyard of thousands of GIs, and the
locals whine like jet engines.

Demonstrators in France call him a killer over Timothy McVeigh's execution, and
they burn American flags.

"More people were killed by suicide in French prisons in 1999 than those who
were executed in the United States," commentator John McLaughlin said on NBC
yesterday.

"It's not for Europe to dictate [about the death sentence] to us," said Lee
Hamilton, former Democratic congressman of the House International Relations
Committee.

The French newspapers call Bush the "Toxic Texan" over his resistance to the
Kyoto accords, which would cut down our productivity but not that of developing
nations.

Curiously, none of the countries of Western Europe - who were so outraged about
Bush calling it a "flawed treaty" - have ratified the treaty themselves. It's
the same old story out of Europe, a skyscraper of jealousy. The message is:
"Screw the U.S."

"It's a ridiculous treaty, a phony issue, they [the Europeans] are lecturing,
they're moralizing, they lay it all on us," said Lawrence Eagleburger, former
Secretary of State under Bush Sr., on CNN.

The French and others on last week's historic visit by Bush want to paint a
picture of the United States single-handedly causing global warming.

Does global warming really exist? Really exist? I couldn't see it last winter
when I was freezing my rear end off. Or is this the shrill voice of the
ecoholics?

For instance, do some of these giant intellects who warn that we're all going to
sizzle realize the globe was warmer 1,000 years ago, when there wasn't a car or
factory in sight, than it is today?

Professor Richard Lindzen, who prepared a presidential report on dire
predictions of global warming says: "The climate is always changing . . . change
is the norm."

Then came the screams from Europe about Bush wanting to abrogate the 1972
anti-ballistic missile treaty, signed when the Soviet Union was threatening to
put us all in heaven.

"The ABM treaty belongs to another era," said Condoleezza Rice, National
Security Advisor, on "Meet the Press." "They were hostile times."

Can't the Europeans get it?

President Bush wants an anti-missile defense shield. Underline the word defense
not offense.

France and others in Western Europe were quite satisfied for America to bail
them out of two world wars and rebuild the whole damn continent. They want us to
look after Kosovo and Bosnia.

And yet we saw last week they seem to be more hostile to the greatest nation in
the world than Vladimir Putin, former honcho of the KGB.

"They [the Europeans] spend half their time kibitzing and the other half of the
time complaining," said former secretary of state Eagleburger.

Le Monde, that great institution of the left in France, called George Bush "Mr.
Dumb."

Well, they're the ones who live in a country whose entire economy is smaller
than that of the single state of California.

Now who's dumb? I think we're all quite prepared to listen to them when they
lecture us about quiche, but when it comes to national character, they should be
as silent as a cat walking on wool.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               32 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 18, 2001, Monday

SEA EXPLORER IN QUEST OF BIBLICAL PROPORTIONS

BYLINE: BILL HOFFMANN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 339 words


The explorer who discovered the wreck of the Titanic now wants to prove the
Black Sea was created by a huge flood that may have been the inspiration for the
biblical story of Noah's Ark.

Oceanographer Robert Ballard is probing claims that rising sea levels pressed a
natural dam to burst about 7,000 years ago - submerging 19,000 square miles of
inhabited land around a huge freshwater lake.

Ballard believes evidence will show the Black Sea is what was left after a flood
so immense that it sparked the legend of Noah.

There have been suggestions that the flood wiped out human settlements, although
the deluge was more likely to have lasted for some 40 years than 40 days.

Professor Petko Dimitrov, who is working with Ballard, believes people who had
to flee their homes spread the stories of a flood that were the basis not only
of the story of Noah, but of similar accounts in other cultures.

Ballard - who located the wreck of the Titanic in 1985 - has made two
exploratory trips to the area.

He and his team found ancient shells and a freshwater shoreline 550 feet below
the murky surface.

They also came across signs of buildings under 311 feet of water, some 12 miles
off the Turkish Black Sea coast near the convergence of two submerged ancient
river beds.

Ballard believes the finds - including beams, fragments of walls, stone tools
and a garbage dump - prove habitation in an area where water levels rose
catastrophically.

"It is beyond our wildest imagination," he told the Sunday Times of London.

Ballard's team will use a robotic submarine equipped with pivoting underwater
video cameras, lights, an electronic still camera, and a sonar system that can
help detect man-made structures.

He believes the almost complete lack of oxygen in the Black Sea will facilitate
the expedition's work.

"It's really a giant bathtub full of salt water that has gone stagnant. The
absence of oxygen means there are no wood-boring organisms, meaning much of what
is down there will be intact," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               33 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 19, 2001, Tuesday

BUSH'S EUROPEAN TRIUMPH

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 032

LENGTH: 340 words


President Bush's five-day European tour, which ended over the weekend, dealt a
one-two punch to his elitist critics - particularly those in the media on both
sides of the Atlantic.

Bush's first blow KO'd tired, futile efforts to keep alive caricatures of him as
dim-witted and parochial.

The second showed the world that America was not about to flinch when it came to
the flawed Kyoto treaty on climate change or to universally vital missile
defense.

Painting Bush as dumb had been the favored strategy of Democrats and
left-leaning media-types almost from the day Dubya first threw his ten-gallon
hat into the presidential ring.

That strategy failed miserably at home. Yale- and Harvard-bred, Bush trashed the
myth repeatedly during his campaign, most notably the debates with Vice
President Gore.

Now he's done it on foreign soil.

European leaders say they were impressed by his skills, his knowledge and,
mostly, his desire to work with them.

Critics had also argued that Bush is driving a wedge between the cross-Atlantic
partners. The president made clear he's doing nothing of the sort.

Even Europe's big leftist papers had to acknowledge that Bush "is manifestly not
the aesuperficial buffoon and arrogant Texan' portrayed in the media," as the
far-left French daily, Libration, put it.

If anything, it was the leftist, elitist Europeans who came across as parochial
and ill-informed.

Which is why Bush's second punch - that is, his refusal to budge on Kyoto and
missile-defense - was so important.

Ironically, much of Europe seems to agree that America is dead-on about both
these issues.

No European country save Romania has ratified the Kyoto treaty. And interest in
missile defense is growing, with some countries considering a small-scale
anti-missile plan that Russia is peddling.

The upshot is that international relations couldn't be better: Not only has Bush
dashed images of trans-Atlantic discord, but he's done it without compromising
America's principles.

Pretty good for a rookie.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               34 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            June 28, 2001, Thursday

DEMOCRACY IS NO E-MOCRACY FOR POLITICOS

BYLINE: Mary Huhn

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 040

LENGTH: 412 words


WHAT'S the best way to reach a politician? Send a letter by snail-mail.You may
think point-and-click grassroots campaigns are a good way to help a cause, but
Congress and the White House are so overwhelmed by these e-chain letters they
often wind up in the PC recycling bin.

"If someone copies an e-mail to everyone on the Hill, no one cares," says Chris
Casey, a Congressional staffer and author of "The Hill on the Net." "Those are
e-mails sent by everybody and received by nobody."

In April, more than 100,000 e-mail protests were sent to President Bush on
behalf of Friends of the Earth, to protest his abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol
to curb climate change.

Received at the rate of 1,000 an hour, the White House server crashed a
half-dozen times in a week. At peak times, an "e-protest" hits the White House
every second. And by the way, Bush did not reverse his position.

Most congressional offices give more weight to personal letters, phone calls,
faxes and personal e-mails - with chain e-mails at the bottom of the heap,
according to a study by Office of Management and Budget.

Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) is the rare senator who gives e-mail and
snail-mail equal weight, but will only respond to his Vermont constituents.

"Leahy has made every effort to treat different categories of communication
people choose the same," says David Carle, his spokesman, noting that Leahy
"appreciates e-mail for its immediacy."

There are other ways to use the 'Net as a grass-roots tool.

Mindshare Internet, a new-media political consulting firm, helped collect
115,000 signatures protesting the Communications Decency Act in 1995 - but the
protest received more notice when it encouraged sites such as Yahoo to go dark
to register their opposition to the law.

"Congress learned about it because they read about it in Time and USA Today,"
says Casey.

As an example of a successful e-mail push, Seiger points to the People for the
American Way's protest of John Ashcroft's nomination for Attorney General.

Rather than forwarding 270,000 e-petitions to Congress, the group printed out
all of them - two tons' worth - then delivered the boxes.

Steiger also notes that those e-mail petitions which request every 100th person
forward the chain mail to the government are a complete waste of time.

Don't waste your time. Write a letter, then buy a stamp.

Additional reporting by Jeremy Powers. Please e-mail Surfer gURL at
mhuhn@nypost.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               35 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            July 25, 2001, Wednesday

CSFB BARS STOCK STAKE FOR ANALYSTS

BYLINE: Jessica Sommar

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 283 words


Credit Suisse First Boston, going a step beyond rival firms, has barred equity
and debt analysts from owning securities of the companies they cover.

As a climate of suspicion and hostility continues to swirl around research
analysts and potential conflicts of interest, CSFB is only the second firm to
respond by prohibiting research analysts from owning stock in the companies they
cover. But it is the first to extend the policy to owning bonds.

CSFB is a focus of regulators' investigations into how Wall Street firms
allocated hot IPOs during the dot-com bubble.

This month the firm, owned by big Swiss bank Credit Suisse group, responded by
removing former CEO Alan Wheat and firing three brokers from the firm.

The move is the first change in policy since John Mack, former president of
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. was hired as CEO 12 days ago.

CSFB's 430 analysts will have until the end of September to sell their
securities, but some may be eligible for exemptions so as not to impose undue
financial penalties, the firm's statement said.

Last month, CSFB also changed reporting lines so that all analysts report
directly into global equity research and not to investment banking, in response
to criticism that analysts' independence is compromised.

Merrill Lynch & Co., the nation's largest stock brokerage firm, started the
trend this month when it announced that its analysts would not be allowed to buy
shares in the companies they cover.

And last week Merrill settled - rather than fight in the courts - a lawsuit
filed by a Queens doctor alleging misinformation and conflict of interest from
star Internet analyst Henry Blodget.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALAN WHEAT Toast.

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               36 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            July 25, 2001, Wednesday

GLOBAL PIFFLE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 032

LENGTH: 401 words


Monday, in Bonn, a "compromise" was reached between 178 countries on the
so-called Kyoto Protocol - the proposed pact meant to protect against "global
warming."

The United States, alone, refused.

Now begins the drumbeat:

The U.S. is "isolated."

President Bush is "out of step."

The ice caps are going to melt - and it's all America's fault!

Nonsense.

The Kyoto protocol is an attempt to marry suspect science to the politics of
European resentment.

America is the big boy on the block. So big, in fact, that the rest of the world
- especially the European Union - intends to take the country down a peg, by
fair means or foul.

To benefit Europe's own economies.

Or, frankly, just for the hell of it.

And if that doesn't work, the EU at least gets to feel good about itself.

In this respect,the Kyoto protocol is the means to that end.

The proposal requires the industrialized nations essentially to wreck their
economies - though, technically, the term is "reduce greenhouse gas emissions"
so as to slow "global warming."

Meanwhile, Third World nations - at present huge polluters - get to continue
pumping all sorts of nasty things into the atmosphere.

Indefinitely.

The science of global warming is almost as politicized as that attending, say,
AIDS. But even though it's a popular theory, it's far from having been proven.
(For details, see James K. Glassman's arguments on the preceeding page.)

On the basis of such speculation, the pro-Kyoto crowd wants America to place its
economy at grave risk.

The proposed treaty demands that all industrialized nations reduce greenhouse
emissions to 5 percent below their 1990 levels - by 2011.

For the United States, that would mean a near 20 percent reduction from current
levels.

Some private forecasts estimate that compliance would cost the average American
household nearly $3,000.

China and India, meanwhile, would be exempt.

Meanwhile, there is so much enthusiam in Europe for actually ratifying the
treaty that only one nation has done so.

Romania.

What do you think the chances are that the rest of the European Union - France
and Germany, in particular - will hobble itself in such a manner?

Right.

Virtually none.

If 178 countries wish to sign onto this "Bonn agreement," that's fine.

But without the United States in the pact, it means nothing. Think of it as
risk-free finger-pointing.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               37 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             July 27, 2001, Friday

ED. BOARD SET SORRY EXAMPLE WITH DECEIT

BYLINE: Bob McManus

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 007

LENGTH: 451 words


THE failure of public education in New York City has not so much to do with
readin', 'ritin' and 'rithmetic as it does with the inability of public
educators to tell the truth.

Gov. Pataki's Moreland Act Commission on New York City Schools was impaneled
two-plus years ago because The Post caught the Board of Education lying,
elaborately, about enrollment and attendance.

The lies were meant to increase state and local aid payments. But they meant
that policymakers in City Hall and Albany were making decisions based on wholly
faulty information about everything from dropout rates and resource allocation
to Albany's fiscal obligation to the city's schools.

Indeed, last winter's judicial order dramatically increasing state aid to the
city essentially was based on information that probably was fabricated from
whole cloth. It's simply impossible to be certain.

Fast-forward to yesterday, when the commission issued yet another of its
compelling interim reports. This document demonstrated that the Board of Ed not
only has vaporized its capital-construction budget (no surprise there) but that
key board officials knew it - and pretended that nothing was amiss. Overtly or
by omission, they lied.

Business as usual at the Board of Education, in other words.

Why they lied is no great mystery: They had reason to believe that they could
get away with it.

They always have.

What's astonishing is the lack of curiosity on the part of folks like former
Board of Ed President William Thompson; city Comptroller (and mayoral candidate)
Alan Hevesi and state Comptroller (and gubernatorial candidate) H. Carl McCall -
and not just about the board's capital budget.

They were dumb as fence posts about attendance, too, even though all of these
matters are subject to their oversight.

Why does any of this matter?

Because it is impossible to educate children in such a climate.

Few would disagree that New York City has too few schools.

But what to do? Yesterday, Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy said: "Funding for
school construction remains inadequate, and no amount of finger-pointing will
change that."

Yet that is far from clear.

The Moreland Act report - what Levy terms "finger-pointing" - demonstrates
beyond serious doubt that the Board of Ed has wasted billions of taxpayer
dollars. Yet he demands a blind commitment of billions more: ". . . Any problems
in the implementation of the [board's capital-construction] program should not
be used to focus attention elsewhere."

Yes. And other than that, Mrs. Lincoln, how was the play?

Levy, et al., have proven themselves unfit stewards of the public trust. That's
the message of the Moreland Act Commission.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               38 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            August 28, 2001, Tuesday

WE'RE LOSING OUR BEST NEIGHBOR

BYLINE: Adam Buckman

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 600 words


TV without Mister Rogers?

It's almost too awful to contemplate, but contemplate it we must, for Fred
Rogers is hanging up his sweater.

And in so doing, television loses a man who just might be the last true believer
in the medium's potential to achieve great things.

This summer marks the closing of "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood," which premiered
in 1968 and today is one of the last refuges left on television suitable for
sheltering small children.

Mister Rogers taped the final episode months ago, and it will air on PBS
stations - including Channel 13 here - this Friday. After that, the show
continues in reruns - the thinking being that his young viewers won't know the
difference. But for how long it will run, nobody knows.

Mister Rogers pledges to remain active in TV and in the development of Web sites
for children, but at age 72, it's clear he's moving into a new phase of his
life.

Call it semi-retirement or just stopping to smell the roses, but TV's most
eloquent spokesman for decency is riding off into the sunset and leaving an
enormous void that might never be filled.

Listening to him talk, you get the feeling that the soft-spoken yet persuasive
Mister Rogers is no less than the Gandhi of television.

When he articulates what he sees as TV's mission, he makes statements that are
stunning in their bare-bones simplicity and unassailable truthfulness.

"Those of us who are the producers and purveyors of television are servants of
the people," he said in an interview last month on ABC's "Nightline," seated
before a piano wearing his familiar zippered cardigan and canvas deck shoes in
his Pittsburgh studio.

"And if those who sponsor programs and those who sit on boards of directors of
places that own networks, if they would simply watch what's on a lot of their
air and say to themselves, 'Do I want my family watching this?' I think that the
. . . climate would change and the landscape of television could be what it's
meant to be, and that is a landscape of nourishment for the human family."

A "landscape of nourishment for the human family"? When was the last time you
heard words like that coming from someone in the TV business? Probably never.

But that's Fred Rogers for you. Here's a guy who, after more than 45 years in
the TV business, still unabashedly refers to the space between TV screen and
child as nothing less than "holy ground" and considers TV's capacity for
performing miracles a "mysterious wonder."

On "Nightline," he explained.

"I had a letter the other day saying this woman had been abused and raped as a
young child, and she would find her solace in going into a little room that had
the television," Mister Rogers recalled.

"And she said, 'I really believed it when you said that people could like me
exactly as I was, because I really didn't like myself that much at first. But I
really came to believe you.'

"Well, to me," Mister Rogers said to ABC newsman John Donvan, "that's a holy
enterprise. The space between the television set and that little girl who was in
such desperate need - the space there was holy ground. Something was happening
that wasn't in my control. I was just saying what was in my heart, and she -
between that moment and her receiving it - was, I think, a mysterious wonder."

A "mysterious wonder?" I think Mister Rogers is a mysterious wonder whose words
are worth committing to memory.

Because when he leaves, who will be left to utter them?

Adam Buckman is TV columnist for The Post.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fred Rogers: Keeping the ground between the television and the child
"holy."

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               39 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

WWF PULLS OUT OF THE WAR ZONE

BYLINE: DON KAPLAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 120

LENGTH: 141 words


THE WWF is dumping the words "War"and "Armageddon" from the titles of three of
its shows because the names may be construed as "insensitive" in the aftermath
of last month's terror attacks.

TNN's high-rated two-hours of pro-wrestling has changed from "Raw is War" to
"Raw" for the 9 p.m. hour, while the 10 p.m. hour is going from "The War Zone"
to "The Raw Zone."

The changes went into effect this past week.

"Essentially we changed the names because we want to be especially sensitive to
the situation and respectful to everyone involved, but at the same time
entertain our fans," said WWF spokesman Judd Everhart.

Meanwhile, the WWF is also trying to figure out the new name of an upcoming
pay-per-view special. The show's original title, "Armageddon," is also
considered insensitive given the world's current war-like climate.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               40 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

CONDO CONVERTED TO OFFICES

BYLINE: STEVE CUOZZO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 038

LENGTH: 252 words


In the latest sign of post-terror turmoil in the real estate world, the
developers of the 34-story luxury condo tower going up at 60 E. 55th St. plan to
turn it into a "boutique" office building instead.

The project formerly known as "de Resident," with 74 apartments, is now being
pushed as a "great corporate headquarters" address for a single tenant,
according to RFR Realty LLC broker Richard Farley.

"We feel that in the current climate, we have an opportunity to accommodate one
tenant for the entire building," Farley said.

"It's a niche either for a small company looking for a prime location, or for a
firm like Lehman that would need one location for a single division."

But in a sign of the fast-moving chess game that real estate has become since
Sept. 11, a different source claimed the change "is really a trial balloon to
see if anybody's interested" in it for office use.

By office standards, 60 E. 55th is a pipsqueak, with 150,000 square feet. The
tower, a project of RFR and its development partner, Trevor Davis, is to be
completed in 11 months. It was advertised as an apartment building for months,
and a giant sidewalk sign promised passersby the imminent coming of "de
Resident."

Scott Durkin, COO of the Corcoran Group residential brokerage, termed the
planned switch "a great move. Obviously they're taking advantage of the loss of
13 million square feet downtown. "It's perfect for people who want something
intimate that won't be vulnerable to skyline attacks."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               41 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

AD EXECS: IT'S TIME TO GET SERIOUS

BYLINE: Paul Tharp

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 035

LENGTH: 784 words


Tried and true devices of humor and put-downs may not work anymore in TV spots.

"There'll be less comedy," siad Frank Ginsbrg, creative direcotr and chairman of
Avrett, Free & Ginsberg.

"People realize that safety is a thing of the past, and they're going to look
for a sense of stability and security, not jokes, " he said.

"Creatives won't be able to make fun of traditional values anymore; those days
are over. Sound bites have to give support, honet values, sincerity. Frivloius
and silly just won't work so well anymore."

Ginsberg said feel-good visuals will be big. "The visuals can be very powerful
and speak volumes that words can's say."

"And the words might even be inappropriate at any given time in this climate.
What seems correct can change from day-to-day."

Many advertisers in the past week have stepped back from wrapping their brands
and products in patriotism.

"Clients are aware they can overuse patriotism, and they don't want the stars
and stripes to become a just a new symbol of commercialism," said Ginsberg.

"We have a tendancy to go overboard."

Some firms, such as Geneal Motros, have been using more sublte patriotic slogans
to plug procuts. Ads for Oldsmobil and Chevrolet have been running with a
slogan, "Keep America Rolling."

Many local retail ads, emblazoned just two wesk ago with flags and remakrs of
empathy, have returned to hard-sell ptiches and sales without any flags on their
ads.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               42 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           October 23, 2001, Tuesday

AOL TRIES TO DUMP SOME MAGS

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 030

LENGTH: 571 words


AOL Time Warner is said by knowledgeable industry sources to be quietly talking
about selling off some of the magazines that its Time Inc. division picked up
when it purchased Times Mirror Magazines a year ago for $475 million.

Times Mirror Magazines was renamed Time4Media last March. "It's not an auction,"
said one industry source with knowledge of the talks.

He said AOL Time Warner is trying to do a "private transaction" without fanfare
that could hurt morale and the ad base while a sale is pending.

Time Inc. CEO Don Logan, when reached by Media Ink at the AMC in New York,
denied any deal was afoot.

"It's news to me," said Logan, who said he was going to be talking to Time4Media
Group next week.

"There are no plans," said Logan. "That is not to say business conditions might
not change. But there are no plans."

The group includes some big titles such as Golf Magazine, circulation 1.4
million; Field & Stream, circulation 1.7 million; Outdoor Life, circulation 1.4
million, and Popular Science, circulation 1.6 million.

The traditional Time Inc. formula favors large circulation titles such as
People, Time and Sports Illustrated, which can dominate a field.

At Time4Media, titles such as Transworld Snowboarding, Transworld Skateboarding
and Freeze would seem to run counter to the tradition, as would enthusiast
titles such as Yachting and Salt Water Sportsman.

The original deal was reached last October on the brink of last year's American
Magazine Conference.

It was widely expected at the time that Time Inc. was keenly interested in the
golfing title but would move to sell or consolidate the others. It has moved
slowly on that front so far.

Today's Homeowner was shut down and the executive line-up was shuffled.

Jason Klein, who was on board last year as the president of Times Mirror
Magazines, left several months after the deal was completed saying he did not
want to report to Michael Klingensmith, the Sports Illustrated president who
ended up overseeing the group after the deal. Klingensmith has since been
promoted to executive vice president of Time Inc.

Klein had tried to team up with Steve Rattner and the Quadrangle Group to buy
the magazines last year but was thwarted by the Time Inc. bid.

If Logan is looking to unload some of the titles, he may not have far to go.
Klein is in attendance at this year's AMC, representing North Castle Partners.
"I'm looking for deals," Klein told Media Ink.

Another potentail deal-maker is James Dunning, who ran into trouble as the head
of Ziff-Davis Media in August but who earlier in his career had a string of
media turnarounds ranging from Petersen Publishing to Standard Rates & Data
Service. He was seen chatting amicably with Logan.

Logan was also taking his lumps for his decision to fire the 36 people in the
Time Inc. mailroom in order to turn it over to an outside service.

"The timing could not have been worse," admitted Logan. "But the reality was it
was a decision made a long time ago. It obviously had nothing to do with the
events of Sept. 11."

Oprah Winfrey delivered an upbeat talk that lifted the spirits of many in the
crowd of publishing executives and editors at the morning session.

She had toured Ground Zero on Sunday. Yesterday she said that magazine editors
should help readers to reach "the rock that is higher than any other."

* Please send e-mail to:

kkelly@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               43 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          October 31, 2001, Wednesday

WASSERSTEIN'S WOES MOUNT

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 040

LENGTH: 966 words


THE man known as "Bid 'em up" Bruce Wasserstein may soon have to change his
nickname to "Bail 'em out Bruce."

His American Lawyer Media is beset by financial woes and labor unrest and in
June nearly went into default on its bank loans. A new day of reckoning may be
fast approaching as the next quarterly report comes within the next two weeks.

Cash is rapidly disappearing as the ad market worsens for the American Lawyer,
the National Law Journal, the New York Law Journal and a host of other smaller
regional law books that the company owns.

Wasserstein may be the next mighty mogul to take a tumble, according to some
observers.

Its total long-term debt is a staggering $255.4 million and its available cash
had dropped from $2.26 million at the beginning of the quarter to a skimpy $1.61
million at the end of the quarter ending June 30.

"The company would have been in technical default on its bank debt but the banks
waived the covenants on June 30 for that quarter," said Hal Diamond, a director
of corporate ratings at Standard & Poor's.

Since August, both Moody's Investor Services and Standard Rates & Data Service
have lowered the ratings on the bonds for the company to highly speculative junk
status.

The money losing Daily Deal, which Wasserstein also owns, was spun out of the
American Lawyer Group a year ago into a separate company but it has done little
to improve the balance sheet at ALM.

Said Moody's analyst Christina Pladgett in her last report on the downgrading of
the debt, "The negative outlook reflects the likelihood that cash flow margins
will remain weak and the current liquidity may not be adequate to fund the
company through the immediate term."

Hal Diamond was similarly pessimistic in a report filed for S&P, which lowered
the ratings on the company and placed them on "credit watch with negative
implications."

The report was filed only six days before the World Trade Center attacks.

"The banking climate has gotten a lot worse since then," said Diamond. "A lot
depends on how willing the banks will be to play ball with them."

Even before the attacks, Bankers had been tightening the vise, lowering the $40
million revolving credit line that the company once enjoyed to just $29 million.

The cutback on the revolving credit line provides "minimal additional borrowing
capacity," Diamond added. In other words, "Bid 'em up" Bruce has maxed out.

In the six-month period ending June 30, the company posted a net loss of $18.5
million, compared to a $12.4 million loss a year earlier. The six-month revenue
total slumped to $76.8 million from $79.5 million a year earlier.

The company is also trying to have the National Labor Relations Board overturn a
vote at the New York Law Journal in which the editorial staff on the
150-year-old publication voted to affiliate as a local of the Communications
Workers of America.

In the latest sign of unrest, the company agreed to rescind the warning letters
it had placed in the files of three American Lawyer reporters, Bruce Balestier,
Vicky Rivkin and Dan Wise. The company, as part of the settlement, will post a
notice promising not to repeat the conduct, which the union had maintained was
in retaliation for the individuals' help in the union organizing efforts earlier
in the year.

Wasserstein did not return a call seeking comment on either the union unrest or
his mounting financial woes.

But ALM president William Pollak was willing to talk. "We fully expect to meet
all our obligations," he said.

Pollak insisted, "We are in compliance with all of our bank agreements."

The earnings report for the period ending Sept. 30 should be filed by Nov. 15.
Banks and bondholders will be watching closely.

So far, Wasserstein has not shown any interest in tossing in more of his and his
funds' money into the American Lawyer equity pot - but observers think he may be
forced to do so by the end of the year to keep the company afloat.

"It is an interesting case study," said one source. "Wasserstein has always had
a reputation as one of the smartest money men around. It will be interesting to
see what the smartest money man actually does."

*

Fire Chief Ray Downey perished in the Sept. 11 attacks at the World Trade
Center. Now his 28-year-old nephew Thomas Downey plans to write a book that will
memorialize the life and times of his uncle and a handful of his men in the
elite emergency rescue teams.

A portion of the proceeds will go to benefit families in the Special Operations
Command of the Fire Department, which was one of the hardest hit. Of the 340
firefighters who perished in the Sept. 11 attacks, over 100 came from the
Special Operations Command battalion, said Tom Downey.

Downey had earlier written about Capt. Paddy Brown for the New York Times
Magazine and had been working on a documentary film for The Learning Channel on
Rescue 1 in Manhattan and Rescue 2 in Brooklyn for the past year. Rescue 1 lost
11 men and Rescue 2 lost seven men.

"The book will be about the life of five or six of the men in the rescue units
going back to the '70s," said Tom Downey. "One of them will be my uncle."

He said his uncle had escaped unscathed when the first tower collapsed and had
helped an injured firefighter to an ambulance. Ray Downey turned to go back and
was never seen again. "Sept. 11 will probably be a quarter of the book," said
Downey.

John Sterling of Henry Holt outbid three other publishing houses for the rights
to the book, which will be edited by Executive Editor George Hodgman.* Please
send e-mail to:

kkelly@nypost.com


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BARELY LEGAL: American Lawyer Media, owned by Bruce Wasserstein,
pictured with models Bridget Hall (left) and Christy Turlington (right), is
facing financial pressure.  Marina Garnier

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               44 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            November 2, 2001, Friday

EARTH TO MIKE - WHY CAN'T BLOOMY CONFRONT THE CITY'S GRIM NEW REALITIES?

BYLINE: John Podhoretz

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 039

LENGTH: 651 words


MICHAEL Bloomberg might be an appropriate choice for mayor - of a city called
Fantasyland.

That is the place where Bloomberg appears to reside, judging from an exchange
between the so-called Republican candidate and the editorial board of The New
York Times the other day.

Bloomberg spoke about the nature of the city's economic situation after Sept. 11
as though Sept. 11 hadn't really happened or didn't change the dynamic in New
York City all that much.

His solution to the city's economic crisis is the same as it was before
everything changed on that bright and horrific morning. Bloomberg wants to make
deals with unions on a "saving-sharing plan." He wants the right to refinance
the city's debt again at lower interest rates.

These are good and proper notions. But they have little or nothing to do with
the enormity of the disaster that faces New York City.

It's almost as though Bloomberg cannot bring himself to see the bind he would be
in as mayor should he win the election.

"Nobody's really sure how serious the economic downturn, how protracted it' s
going to be," he said. Economic downturn? The problem in New York City is not
the national economic downturn.

We are in a place far beyond the business cycle.

The problem in New York City has to do with a level of civic uncertainty of an
order no American urban center has experienced in 135 years.

We cannot measure the immediate budgetary and economic cost of the attacks yet -
though they are likely to be terrifyingly high.

But what we can measure is the psychic cost of the attacks.

* Almost one square mile of lower Manhattan remains under military occupation,
more than seven weeks after the attacks.

* The transportation system is bollixed up.

* Many of the building blocks of American commerce make their way onto Manhattan
island on trucks that go through tunnels and over bridges - a task made
immensely more difficult because of the heightened state of alert.

* The mail system has been compromised.

The truancy rate at New York City public schools on Wednesday, owing in part to
rumors of a terror attack on Halloween, was 38 percent. That means 400,000 kids
were kept home by their parents or stayed home of their own volition.

Word that the Transit Authority has begun testing tunnels for possible bioterror
attacks has frightened hundreds of thousands of people who must use the subways
to travel between home and work.

What this means is simple. A few more months of this gnawing uncertainty without
a major incident - a few impossible-to-explain anthrax deaths here, five or six
more heightened alerts from the FBI there - will drive New Yorkers who can
afford to do so to flee the city.

And worse still. Family pressure on major businesses may cause them to relocate
as well to Stamford or Armonk or similar places within easy reach of major
airports so that business travel can continue.

What I mean is: The spouses and children of people working in the city will
demand in concert that they no longer take such a risk with their lives.

Do Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs really have to be in Mid-
town? Probably not, and certainly not in a time of war.

This ugly scenario becomes 10 times more likely if there is another major
terrorist event.

The city's bottom line will not simply go out of balance by a few billion
dollars. It will evaporate. The businesses and individuals who contribute 60
percent or more to the city's tax base may vanish - and with no real reason to
return.

How do you prevent this? I don't know. But I'm not running for mayor. Michael
Bloomberg is. And the fact that he cannot deal with the new reality of New York
City makes clear he's simply not prepared for the job.

E-mail: podhoretz

@nypost.com


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hey, Mike - heard of any problems with the city economy besides the
national slowdown?  N.Y. Post: Jim Alcorn

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               45 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            November 4, 2001, Sunday

FAREWELL, MY SON, AND GIVE THE CAVEMEN HELL

BYLINE: Steve Dunleavy

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 515 words


I HAVE always prayed that my boys, Pete and Sean, would never hear a shot fired
in anger - but today, Pete came a tad closer to that sound.

At 8 this morning, he took off for Fort Benning, Ga., for orientation and then
to his eventual destination, nobody knows.

As a 35-year-old lieutenant in the Army Reserves trained in intelligence and
armor, he's going overseas. I wouldn't ask where he's going, and he sure as hell
wouldn't tell me.

I am terrified, scared, but proud as a peacock. I wish I were going with him.
Because I write a few words here and there, Pete is not special. But the
thousands of young men and women who have taken to the call to duty are damn
special.

Pete's younger brother, Sean, 29, in the spirit of sibling rivalry, is a little
bit P.O.'d about not being the carrier of the saber for the Dunleavy clan . . .
but with enough beer bubbles, he'll catch up.

These Taliban bums have reduced me to worrying about my kid, and I am getting
extremely angry.

OK, Pete is very well-trained, and while he has never been in a cave, he knows
how to catch cockroaches in a crack.

"I will just do as I'm told," Pete said after a farewell dinner last night.

The New York Times refers to this bin Laden bum as Mr. bin Laden. He is not with
the mainstream of civilization, and we should not treat him as such.

Nineteen of Mr. Osama bin Laden's 42 children are U.S.-educated.

His brother, a millionaire, is still in Boston making money out of the American
economy.

We educate your kids, allow your brother to make millions, and you have two
sweet American girls locked in a Kabul dungeon because they are Christians.

My boy is going somewhere, and you are trying to scare us. As John Paul Jones
said, "I have not yet begun to fight." But we still treat you in a climate of
civilization. Apparently, it hasn't sunk in that our tolerance for your brand of
civilization is starting to fade.

I'm sick and tired of all this crap about suspending hostilities over Ramadan.
Nobody suspended hostilities when Israel was attacked during Yom Kippur.

Time to get those caves sealed. Suffocate on fetid air, you weasel.

I don't have to repeat how much I respect the religion of Islam.

But you want to play dirty? General John Pershing put down jihad in the southern
Philippines by executing 19 terrorists who murdered Americans. He spared three
so they could go back to their rat holes to tell fellow murderers that a firing
squad used bullets dipped in pig fat and buried the bodies wrapped in pig skin.
That was the end of jihad.

So I suggest now in the spirit of Dirty Dancing that we gather 10,000 starving
pigs and send them into the caves of Afghanistan, or, as I once suggested,
kidnap bin Laden, bring him to the United States, perform a sex-change operation
on him and send him back to his adopted country, that citadel of feminism.

In the meantime, my lad, with thousands of other young men and women, is going
off to duty. I wish my duty was part of it.

I was taught never to hate. Somehow my lesson has gone astray.

page 5 in metro

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               46 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

DURABLE DVORAK PUT ON ICE: AILING KNEE SNAPS RADEK'S STREAK

BYLINE: LARRY BROOKS

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 061

LENGTH: 521 words


The third-longest consecutive games played streak in the NHL came to an end last
night when Radek Dvorak missed the Rangers' match at the Garden against the
Mighty Ducks.

The winger, who had played in 293 straight overall - 152 since coming to the
Rangers on Dec. 30, 1999 - had trailed only Chicago's Tony Amonte (350) and
Anaheim's Oleg Tverdovsky (314 last night) among active players. Doug Jarvis
holds the NHL record of 964 consecutive matches, a mark he established while
playing for Montreal, Washington and Hartford.

Dvorak missed the match with a sprained left knee that he aggravated during
Friday's 6-2 loss in Washington. Having initially injured the knee two weeks ago
at home against Minnesota on Nov. 7, Dvorak had registered just two goals and
one assist in the seven games since.

"I reinjured it when I caught my skate in a [rut] on the ice when I tried to
make a quick turn," Dvorak said. "But I don't think it's anything serious. I
think it will be day-to-day."

Manny Malhotra, a healthy scratch on Friday for the first time this season,
returned to the lineup last night. It may well have been a showcase game for
Malhotra, with the Mighty Ducks one of the teams having expressed interest in
the 21-year-old former first-round draft choice.

While Malhotra returned to the lineup, Jeff Toms, ordinary at best against the
Caps in his first game since Nov. 8, stepped out again to make room for Tomas
Kloucek in an 11-forward, seven-defensemen alignment. Kloucek returned to the
defense after missing two games with lower back problems.

"I'm planning on double-shifting Eric [Lindros] on the right side with Mark
[Messier] and Z [Zdeno Ciger] an in his normal spot [between Theo Fleury and
Mike York]," Ron Low said before the match. "Eric only got [15:55] on Friday, he
should be fresh, and I want to get him on as much as possible."

While the Rangers came into the match 8-1-1-1 in their previous 11, Anaheim had
lost six straight while tying a franchise record by going winless in their last
nine (0-7-2). That information, by the way, was not available in the team's
media notes.

GM Pierre Gauthier, among the most smug of men despite having governed the team
to a 6-14-3 record this year - and a mark 39 games under .500 in his four years
in Anaheim after skipping out of a contract in Ottawa to get to a sunny climate
- has survived only because his Disney ownership doesn't wish to be on the hook
for the remainder of his deal while looking to unload the franchise.

*

Paul Kariya, who came in with nine goals, was playing just the fifth game of his
career at the Garden ... Mike Richter, 7-0 with a 2.14 GAA and .934 save
percentage in November, was in nets. The seven straight marks the third-longest
win streak of his career, the goaltender having won 11 straight during the
1996-97 season and eight straight late in the 1993-94 season ... Rangers are in
Buffalo tomorrow night.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAD-ICAL CHANGE:Radek Dvorak (20) had his consecutive games streak
broken at 293 last night when he sat out with ailing knee as Rangers battled
Mighty Ducks.  AP

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               47 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 22, 2001, Saturday

YOUR HOLIDAY FORECAST

BYLINE: JOE CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 009

LENGTH: 169 words


If you're dreaming of a white Christmas - forget about it.

Meteorologists are expecting a seasonably cool Yule - a change from the warm
weather of recent weeks - but still no snow.

On Monday, daytime temperatures will reach the upper 40s, and there is a chance
of rain. Later in the day, Christmas Eve, the temperature will dip into the
mid-30s.

Expect a partly cloudy Christmas Day in the low 40s, falling to the mid-30s at
night.

"The unusual warmth is over," said Tim Morrin, meteorologist with the National
Weather Service. "After experiencing the warmest November on record, and one of
the warmest Decembers . . . the pattern is now showing signs of changing."

If you're the procrastinating type, and you're planning some last-minute
shopping this weekend, the climate will be cooperative. Today is expected to be
mostly sunny, with highs in the mid-40s.

Forecasters predict tomorrow will be slightly warmer than usual for this time of
year - partly sunny, with highs in the upper 40s.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                               48 of 48 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          December 27, 2001, Thursday

SHOPPERS CLICK UP A STORM ON THE 'NET

BYLINE: LISA MARSH

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 018

LENGTH: 377 words


Although the holiday season has been tough on traditional retailers, online
e-tailers received a pleasant holiday surprise - increased sales.

Internet sales between Nov. 19 and this past Sunday jumped 34 percent to $6.32
billion this year against $4.7 billion last year, according to BizRate.com,
Inc., which tracks Internet sales.

"The No. 1 reason [for the increases] is that there are 15 percent more
households online this year versus last year," said Lisa Strand, director and
chief analyst of Net Ratings. "There are more people shopping online."

And consumers' comfort factor is growing the more time they spend online.

"The longer people are online, the more likely they are to shop online," Strand
said. And it's taking them less time to get comfortable with the idea of
spending money over the Internet.

"In the recent past, people are more likely to shop online faster . . . They're
warming up to the idea and shopping faster," she said.

People are also using the Web for easy price comparison.

Shopping on the Web also benefited from the changed retail climate after Sept.
11.

"Because of heightened airline security, people were sending gifts ahead [via
Web retailers] rather than carrying them on board," said Jared Blank, an analyst
at Jupiter Media Metrix.

Books and music were the top e-tail categories, followed by travel, clothing,
consumer electronics and toys.

Meanwhile, traditional brick-and-mortar retailers slashed prices for
post-Christmas sales.

Retail experts said the sales were intended to clear space for spring lines of
merchandise rather than make up for the disappointing holiday shopping season.

The sales would be "too little, too late," said Michael Niemira, vice president
of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.

He said he expects an average gain of 1.5 percent to 2 percent in holiday-season
sales from last year at the 88 stores he tracks. That is the poorest performance
since at least 1990, when the increase was 2 percent.

But profits will be down as much as 10 percent, he said, partly because of heavy
pre-Christmas markdowns.With Post Wire Services


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BARGAINS GALORE: At Bloomingdale's in Midtown yesterday, Anne Mennealy
eyes some hot cashmere sweaters marked down 40 percent. AP

           Copyright 2001 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
