
                               1 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              March 2, 2008 Sunday

OBAMA FOES MUST PITCH A 'CHANGE'-UP

BYLINE: Andrew Sullivan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 907 words


HOW do you solve a problem like Obama? I refer to the immense difficulty of
running against him. Hillary Rodham Clinton has found that out the hard way. She
clearly assumed as recently as Christmas that it would be relatively easy.

And you can see why. She had all the party machinery, all the chits accumulated
over two decades, the biggest brand name in Democratic politics, a former
president actively campaigning for her, a majority of the black vote, the
women's vote, the Hispanic vote - and a set of policy positions that were almost
identical to the black senator with a name that sounds like bin Laden.

Only last December, she predicted it would all be over by Feb. 5. And yet on
every score she has been bested so thoroughly she barely knows even now what hit
her. You should never count out the Clintons. It's not over yet. But one thing
we have all learned this past year is that no one should underestimate the raw
political talent of Barack Obama. Combine that talent with this moment in
American history and it's a very powerful force.

How should the Republican front-runner John McCain respond? Unlike Clinton, he
has had plenty of warning. And last week he tried out a few test runs. He
insisted that he alone has the experience and training to be "ready on Day One"
for the presidency in a time of war. And then, last Thursday, he tried to
neutralize Obama's biggest advantage: that he had been against the Iraq war
while McCain had been for it.

"That's history, that's the past," McCain said. "That's talking about what
happened before. What we should be talking about is what we're going to do now.
And what we're going to do now is continue this strategy which is succeeding in
Iraq."

It makes sense. The latest poll finds a small uptick in optimism about progress
in Iraq. But the proportion believing that the war was a mistake has stayed
fixed at 54 percent. Americans are flexible but not stupid. Hence McCain's
attempt to change the subject.

He may well not succeed, and if the fragile Iraqi lull does not hold, he could
fail. Worse, McCain is stuck with a downside of possible Iraq success as well.
Why? Because the more the surge is perceived as succeeding, the easier it will
be for Obama to argue that the United States can now withdraw. We won, right?
Time to leave.

Paradoxically, a success for the surge could remove McCain's strongest card on
national security by making withdrawal far less dangerous. President Bush and
McCain have managed somehow to box themselves in: If the surge fails, they lose.
If it succeeds, the public is more comfortable handing the reins to a young
Democrat.

And attacking Obama directly carries risks. All the usual slime has been thrown
already. The Clinton camp has tried it all, and has come up empty. And that's
with a large wedge of Democrats on the Clintons' side.

If McCain tries gambits such as going for the Arabic-sounding name, he runs a
real risk of sounding racist in ways that will turn off critical white swing
voters and galvanize Democrats, especially the burgeoning younger vote, behind
their man.

For what it's worth, here is my advice for McCain. Don't run on experience. It
hasn't worked with Clinton, and it won't work for him. In McCain's case, it
speaks for itself. Why downplay this obvious asset?

Because this is a "change" election. If the economy continues to tank, it's
going to be even more of a change election. Remember the Bill Clinton mantra in
1992? "Change versus more of the same." It worked. And it will work even more
this time, since the number of Americans believing that the country is on the
wrong track is even higher than in 1992.

Moreover, the whole "experience" and "readiness" theme would reinforce McCain's
biggest liability in the obvious narrative of the 2008 election: the old versus
the young. He will seem like an establishment figure whose time has gone.

What McCain has to do is co-opt Obama's message. McCain has to become the change
candidate. He has a record that makes this plausible enough.

He has long been a rebel in Washington: He has tackled Republican rigidity on
climate change, spending excess and the war. If anyone can be said to have
forced a change in strategy in Iraq, it is McCain.

What he needs to do is to reiterate that he brought change once before to Iraq
and can bring it again, by orchestrating a withdrawal that is as careful (to
paraphrase Obama) as the invasion was careless.

Obama's weakness is on his left-wing economics. But McCain should not attack
there either. He should propose a broadside on pork-barrel spending, a
commitment to fiscal retrenchment, a reform of entitlements and a pledge to
ratchet back the massive expansion of government under Bush.

At some point, McCain should also risk a fight with some of the uglier elements
of the far right. A Republican version of the famous "Sister Souljah moment" in
1992, when Bill Clinton took on a black rapper, would signal a willingness to
shake things up.

McCain has two tendencies: to react with prickly intransigence to criticism and
to inspire others with the record of his own public service. Many of his fellow
Republicans will urge him to savage Obama on his youth, inexperience and
liberalism. If that is the strategy, McCain will implode. But if he can master
his own volatile temperament and out-Obama Obama on change, he stands a real
chance.

But it won't be easy. Just ask Hillary. Sunday Times of London

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEFLON CANDIDATE: Barack Obama's appeal to youth - and the fact that
he's deflected all sleazy innuendo thrown at him - makes it tricky for John
McCain to rip him. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 18, 2008 Saturday

COOL IT! - A FAMILY-FRIENDLY TAKE ON GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: BARBARA HOFFMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 544 words


THE ice caps are melting, the ice caps are melting! Seriously. And if you don't
yet believe we're in hot water, check out "Climate Change," the exhibit that
opens today at the American Museum of Natural History.

It's got just about everything - interactive stations, dramatic dioramas,
videos, a wall of living plants, a wall of pounding water and a monolithic
metric ton of black coal, which is what it takes to power the average American
home for just two months.

You don't want to know how much carbon dioxide it gives off along the way, but
the folks behind this exhibit are only too happy to tell you - and in ways even
a child could understand.

"I've been struggling for years to engage my students, and I think all I'll do
for my spring semester is to tell them to buy a ticket on NJ Transit and come
here," says Princeton University professor Michael Oppenheimer, who helped
curate the exhibit.

From the opening timeline, in which a galloping red LED line shows the massive
hike in carbon dioxide over the years, on to a cut-away core of a pebble-bed
nuclear reactor (which looks like a silvergumball machine), the exhibit offers
both problems and possible solutions.

Along the way, kids are invited to run a magnifying glass over tree rings, touch
a lump of coal and take touch-screen quizzes on how to lighten the carbon load.

"Much of the hands-on stuff is pretty cool," says 11-year-old Isis Davis Marks,
who got a sneak peek this week.

"I didn't really know that storms would be more intense because of global
warming, and that if you planted a certain amount of trees, you would lessen
carbon-dioxide emissions. I think New York City would benefit a lot from that!"

She's less impressed by a model of Lower Manhattan that uses shading to show
what it would look like when the sea level rises five, then 10 feet.

"I would have liked it if they had real water in there," she says, and anyone
who's seen "The Day After Tomorrow" would have to agree.

Far more dramatic is the diorama of a polar bear forced to forage in a garbage
dump, and an installation of actual, diseased coral, set against a photograph of
a vividly colored, healthy reef.

There's even a wall where visitors can leave comments and suggestions. One wag
left a drawing labeled "hybrid Hummer." Obviously, we've got some learning to
do.

In which case, you might want to sign up for one of the museum's "Climate Change
Sundays" ($30 per session, $75 for all three). The hands-on workshops are
divided into two sessions: one for fourth and fifth graders, another for sixth
and seventh graders; details at amnh.org.

Tell 'em a polar bear sent you.

----

Have a green Halloween

You can make a difference! Check out these trick-ortreat tips from Danny Seo,
the "living green" guru for Better Homes & Gardens:

* Take last year's costumes and donate them to Goodwill, the Salvation Army or
hospital thrift stores. They can resell them and raise money for a cause.

* Ditch the plastic pumpkin for an old pillowcase you can decorate with
nontoxic, glow-in-thedark fabric paint. You'll shine on even after the sun sets.

* Take a small trash bag with you and pick up litter along the way. Reward
yourself (or your child) with a candy each time you make the sidewalk, street or
earth a little nicer.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Not in my stocking, please: Kids check out one metric ton of coal.
[Denis Finnin (2)] -A polar bear forages for food in a dump in a "Climate Change
" diorama.  -Not in my stocking, please: Kids check out one metric ton of coal.
[Denis Finnin (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 23, 2008 Sunday

OBAMA IN BLACK & WHITE

BYLINE: BARACK OBAMA

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 6483 words


Faced with the biggest challenge of his campaign, he gives a landmark speech on
race. An annotated look:

"WE the people, in order to form a more perfect union." Two hundred and twenty
one years ago, in a hall that still stands across the street, a group of men
gathered and, with these simple words, launched America's improbable experiment
in democracy. Farmers and scholars; statesmen and patriots who had traveled
across an ocean to escape tyranny and persecution finally made real their
declaration of independence at a Philadelphia convention that lasted through the
spring of 1787.

The document they produced was eventually signed but ultimately unfinished. It
was stained by this nation's original sin of slavery, a question that divided
the colonies and brought the convention to a stalemate until the founders chose
to allow the slave trade to continue for at least twenty more years, and to
leave any final resolution to future generations.

Of course, the answer to the slavery question was already embedded within our
Constitution - a Constitution that had at is very core the ideal of equal
citizenship under the law; a Constitution that promised its people liberty, and
justice, and a union that could be and should be perfected over time.

And yet words on a parchment would not be enough to deliver slaves from bondage,
or provide men and women of every color and creed their full rights and
obligations as citizens of the United States. What would be needed were
Americans in successive generations who were willing to do their part - through
protests and struggle, on the streets and in the courts, through a civil war and
civil disobedience and always at great risk - to narrow that gap between the
promise of our ideals and the reality of their time.

This was one of the tasks we set forth at the beginning of this campaign - to
continue the long march of those who came before us, a march for a more just,
more equal, more free, more caring and more prosperous America. I chose to run
for the presidency at this moment in history because I believe deeply that we
cannot solve the challenges of our time unless we solve them together - unless
we perfect our union by understanding that we may have different stories, but we
hold common hopes; that we may not look the same and we may not have come from
the same place, but we all want to move in the same direction - towards a better
future for of children and our grandchildren.

This belief comes from my unyielding faith in the decency and generosity of the
American people. But it also comes from my own American story.

I am the son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas. I was
raised with the help of a white grandfather who survived a Depression to serve
in Patton's Army during World War II and a white grandmother who worked on a
bomber assembly line at Fort Leavenworth while he was overseas. I've gone to
some of the best schools in America and lived in one of the world's poorest
nations. I am married to a black American who carries within her the blood of
slaves and slaveowners - an inheritance we pass on to our two precious
daughters. I have brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, uncles and cousins, of
every race and every hue, scattered across three continents, and for as long as
I live, I will never forget that in no other country on Earth is my story even
possible.

It's a story that hasn't made me the most conventional candidate. But it is a
story that has seared into my genetic makeup the idea that this nation is more
than the sum of its parts - that out of many, we are truly one.

Throughout the first year of this campaign, against all predictions to the
contrary, we saw how hungry the American people were for this message of unity.
Despite the temptation to view my candidacy through a purely racial lens, we won
commanding victories in states with some of the whitest populations in the
country. In South Carolina, where the Confederate Flag still flies, we built a
powerful coalition of African Americans and white Americans.

This is not to say that race has not been an issue in the campaign. At various
stages in the campaign, some commentators have deemed me either "too black" or
"not black enough." We saw racial tensions bubble to the surface during the week
before the South Carolina primary. The press has scoured every exit poll for the
latest evidence of racial polarization, not just in terms of white and black,
but black and brown as well.

And yet, it has only been in the last couple of weeks that the discussion of
race in this campaign has taken a particularly divisive turn.

On one end of the spectrum, we've heard the implication that my candidacy is
somehow an exercise in affirmative action; that it's based solely on the desire
of wide-eyed liberals to purchase racial reconciliation on the cheap. On the
other end, we've heard my former pastor, Reverend Jeremiah Wright, use
incendiary language to express views that have the potential not only to widen
the racial divide, but views that denigrate both the greatness and the goodness
of our nation; that rightly offend white and black alike.

I have already condemned, in unequivocal terms, the statements of Reverend
Wright that have caused such controversy. For some, nagging questions remain.
Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and
foreign policy? Of course. Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be
considered controversial while I sat in church? Yes. Did I strongly disagree
with many of his political views? Absolutely - just as I'm sure many of you have
heard remarks from your pastors, priests, or rabbis with which you strongly
disagreed.

But the remarks that have caused this recent firestorm weren't simply
controversial. They weren't simply a religious leader's effort to speak out
against perceived injustice. Instead, they expressed a profoundly distorted view
of this country - a view that sees white racism as endemic, and that elevates
what is wrong with America above all that we know is right with America; a view
that sees the conflicts in the Middle East as rooted primarily in the actions of
stalwart allies like Israel, instead of emanating from the perverse and hateful
ideologies of radical Islam.

As such, Reverend Wright's comments were not only wrong but divisive, divisive
at a time when we need unity; racially charged at a time when we need to come
together to solve a set of monumental problems - two wars, a terrorist threat, a
falling economy, a chronic health care crisis and potentially devastating
climate change; problems that are neither black or white or Latino or Asian, but
rather problems that confront us all.

Given my background, my politics, and my professed values and ideals, there will
no doubt be those for whom my statements of condemnation are not enough. Why
associate myself with Reverend Wright in the first place, they may ask? Why not
join another church? And I confess that if all that I knew of Reverend Wright
were the snippets of those sermons that have run in an endless loop on the
television and YouTube, or if Trinity United Church of Christ conformed to the
caricatures being peddled by some commentators, there is no doubt that I would
react in much the same way.

But the truth is, that isn't all that I know of the man. The man I met more than
twenty years ago is a man who helped introduce me to my Christian faith, a man
who spoke to me about our obligations to love one another; to care for the sick
and lift up the poor. He is a man who served his country as a U.S. Marine; who
has studied and lectured at some of the finest universities and seminaries in
the country, and who for over thirty years led a church that serves the
community by doing God's work here on Earth - by housing the homeless,
ministering to the needy, providing day care services and scholarships and
prison ministries, and reaching out to those suffering from HIV/AIDS.

In my first book, "Dreams From My Father," I described the experience of my
first service at Trinity:

"People began to shout, to rise from their seats and clap and cry out, a
forceful wind carrying the reverend's voice up into the rafters . . . And in
that single note - hope! - I heard something else; at the foot of that cross,
inside the thousands of churches across the city, I imagined the stories of
ordinary black people merging with the stories of David and Goliath, Moses and
Pharaoh, the Christians in the lion's den, Ezekiel's field of dry bones. Those
stories - of survival, and freedom, and hope became our story, my story; the
blood that had spilled was our blood, the tears our tears; until this black
church, on this bright day, seemed once more a vessel carrying the story of a
people into future generations and into a larger world. Our trials and triumphs
became at once unique and universal, black and more than black; in chronicling
our journey, the stories and songs gave us a means to reclaim memories tha t we
didn't need to feel shame about . . . memories that all people might study and
cherish - and with which we could start to rebuild."

That has been my experience at Trinity. Like other predominantly black churches
across the country, Trinity embodies the black community in its entirety - the
doctor and the welfare mom, the model student and the former gang-banger. Like
other black churches, Trinity's services are full of raucous laughter and
sometimes bawdy humor. They are full of dancing, clapping, screaming and
shouting that may seem jarring to the untrained ear. The church contains in full
the kindness and cruelty, the fierce intelligence and the shocking ignorance,
the struggles and successes, the love and yes, the bitterness and bias that make
up the black experience in America.

And this helps explain, perhaps, my relationship with Reverend Wright. As
imperfect as he may be, he has been like family to me. He strengthened my faith,
officiated my wedding, and baptized my children. Not once in my conversations
with him have I heard him talk about any ethnic group in derogatory terms, or
treat whites with whom he interacted with anything but courtesy and respect. He
contains within him the contradictions - the good and the bad - of the community
that he has served diligently for so many years.

I can no more disown him than I can disown the black community. I can no more
disown him than I can my white grandmother - a woman who helped raise me, a
woman who sacrificed again and again for me, a woman who loves me as much as she
loves anything in this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black
men who passed by her on the street, and who on more than one occasion has
uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made me cringe.

These people are a part of me. And they are a part of America, this country that
I love.

Some will see this as an attempt to justify or excuse comments that are simply
inexcusable. I can assure you it is not. I suppose the politically safe thing
would be to move on from this episode and just hope that it fades into the
woodwork. We can dismiss Reverend Wright as a crank or a demagogue, just as some
have dismissed Geraldine Ferraro, in the aftermath of her recent statements, as
harboring some deep-seated racial bias.

But race is an issue that I believe this nation cannot afford to ignore right
now. We would be making the same mistake that Reverend Wright made in his
offending sermons about America - to simplify and stereotype and amplify the
negative to the point that it distorts reality.

The fact is that the comments that have been made and the issues that have
surfaced over the last few weeks reflect the complexities of race in this
country that we've never really worked through - a part of our union that we
have yet to perfect. And if we walk away now, if we simply retreat into our
respective corners, we will never be able to come together and solve challenges
like health care, or education, or the need to find good jobs for every
American.

Understanding this reality requires a reminder of how we arrived at this point.
As William Faulkner once wrote, "The past isn't dead and buried. In fact, it
isn't even past."We do not need to recite here the history of racial injustice
in this country. But we do need to remind ourselves that so many of the
disparities that exist in the African-American community today can be directly
traced to inequalities passed on from an earlier generation that suffered under
the brutal legacy of slavery and Jim Crow.

Segregated schools were, and are, inferior schools; we still haven't fixed them,
fifty years after Brown v. Board of Education, and the inferior education they
provided, then and now, helps explain the pervasive achievement gap between
today's black and white students.

Legalized discrimination - where blacks were prevented, often through violence,
from owning property, or loans were not granted to African-American business
owners, or black homeowners could not access FHA mortgages, or blacks were
excluded from unions, or the police force, or fire departments - meant that
black families could not amass any meaningful wealth to bequeath to future
generations. That history helps explain the wealth and income gap between black
and white, and the concentrated pockets of poverty that persists in so many of
today's urban and rural communities.

A lack of economic opportunity among black men, and the shame and frustration
that came from not being able to provide for one's family, contributed to the
erosion of black families - a problem that welfare policies for many years may
have worsened. And the lack of basic services in so many urban black
neighborhoods - parks for kids to play in, police walking the beat, regular
garbage pick-up and building code enforcement - all helped create a cycle of
violence, blight and neglect that continue to haunt us.

This is the reality in which Reverend Wright and other African-Americans of his
generation grew up. They came of age in the late fifties and early sixties, a
time when segregation was still the law of the land and opportunity was
systematically constricted. What's remarkable is not how many failed in the face
of discrimination, but rather how many men and women overcame the odds; how many
were able to make a way out of no way for those like me who would come after
them.

But for all those who scratched and clawed their way to get a piece of the
American Dream, there were many who didn't make it - those who were ultimately
defeated, in one way or another, by discrimination. That legacy of defeat was
passed on to future generations -those young men and increasingly young women
who we see standing on street corners or languishing in our prisons, without
hope or prospects for the future. Even for those blacks who did make it,
questions of race, and racism, continue to define their worldview in fundamental
ways. For the men and women of Reverend Wright's generation, the memories of
humiliation and doubt and fear have not gone away; nor has the anger and the
bitterness of those years. That anger may not get expressed in public, in front
of white co-workers or white friends. But it does find voice in the barbershop
or around the kitchen table. At times, that anger is exploited by politicians,
to gin up votes along racial lines, or to make up for a politician's own
failings.

And occasionally it finds voice in the church on Sunday morning, in the pulpit
and in the pews. The fact that so many people are surprised to hear that anger
in some of Reverend Wright's sermons simply reminds us of the old truism that
the most segregated hour in American life occurs on Sunday morning. That anger
is not always productive; indeed, all too often it distracts attention from
solving real problems; it keeps us from squarely facing our own complicity in
our condition, and prevents the African-American community from forging the
alliances it needs to bring about real change. But the anger is real; it is
powerful; and to simply wish it away, to condemn it without understanding its
roots, only serves to widen the chasm of misunderstanding that exists between
the races.

In fact, a similar anger exists within segments of the white community. Most
working- and middle-class white Americans don't feel that they have been
particularly privileged by their race. Their experience is the immigrant
experience - as far as they're concerned, no one's handed them anything, they've
built it from scratch. They've worked hard all their lives, many times only to
see their jobs shipped overseas or their pension dumped after a lifetime of
labor. They are anxious about their futures, and feel their dreams slipping
away; in an era of stagnant wages and global competition, opportunity comes to
be seen as a zero sum game, in which your dreams come at my expense. So when
they are told to bus their children to a school across town; when they hear that
an African American is getting an advantage in landing a good job or a spot in a
good college because of an injustice that they themselves never committed; when
they're told that their fears about crime in urban neighborhoods are somehow
prejudiced, resentment builds over time.

Like the anger within the black community, these resentments aren't always
expressed in polite company. But they have helped shape the political landscape
for at least a generation. Anger over welfare and affirmative action helped
forge the Reagan Coalition. Politicians routinely exploited fears of crime for
their own electoral ends. Talk show hosts and conservative commentators built
entire careers unmasking bogus claims of racism while dismissing legitimate
discussions of racial injustice and inequality as mere political correctness or
reverse racism.

Just as black anger often proved counterproductive, so have these white
resentments distracted attention from the real culprits of the middle class
squeeze - a corporate culture rife with inside dealing, questionable accounting
practices, and short-term greed; a Washington dominated by lobbyists and special
interests; economic policies that favor the few over the many. And yet, to wish
away the resentments of white Americans, to label them as misguided or even
racist, without recognizing they are grounded in legitimate concerns - this too
widens the racial divide, and blocks the path to understanding.

This is where we are right now. It's a racial stalemate we've been stuck in for
years. Contrary to the claims of some of my critics, black and white, I have
never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in
a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy - particularly a candidacy
as imperfect as my own.

But I have asserted a firm conviction - a conviction rooted in my faith in God
and my faith in the American people - that working together we can move beyond
some of our old racial wounds, and that in fact we have no choice is we are to
continue on the path of a more perfect union.

For the African-American community, that path means embracing the burdens of our
past without becoming victims of our past. It means continuing to insist on a
full measure of justice in every aspect of American life. But it also means
binding our particular grievances - for better health care, and better schools,
and better jobs - to the larger aspirations of all Americans - the white woman
struggling to break the glass ceiling, the white man whose been laid off, the
immigrant trying to feed his family. And it means taking full responsibility for
own lives - by demanding more from our fathers, and spending more time with our
children, and reading to them, and teaching them that while they may face
challenges and discrimination in their own lives, they must never succumb to
despair or cynicism; they must always believe that they can write their own
destiny.

Ironically, this quintessentially American - and yes, conservative - notion of
self-help found frequent expression in Reverend Wright's sermons. But what my
former pastor too often failed to understand is that embarking on a program of
self-help also requires a belief that society can change.

The profound mistake of Reverend Wright's sermons is not that he spoke about
racism in our society. It's that he spoke as if our society was static; as if no
progress has been made; as if this country - a country that has made it possible
for one of his own members to run for the highest office in the land and build a
coalition of white and black; Latino and Asian, rich and poor, young and old -
is still irrevocably bound to a tragic past. But what we know - what we have
seen - is that America can change. That is true genius of this nation. What we
have already achieved gives us hope - the audacity to hope - for what we can and
must achieve tomorrow.

In the white community, the path to a more perfect union means acknowledging
that what ails the AfricanAmerican community does not just exist in the minds of
black people; that the legacy of discrimination - and current incidents of
discrimination, while less overt than in the past - are real and must be
addressed. Not just with words, but with deeds - by investing in our schools and
our communities; by enforcing our civil rights laws and ensuring fairness in our
criminal justice system; by providing this generation with ladders of
opportunity that were unavailable for previous generations. It requires all
Americans to realize that your dreams do not have to come at the expense of my
dreams; that investing in the health, welfare, and education of black and brown
and white children will ultimately help all of America prosper.

In the end, then, what is called for is nothing more, and nothing less, than
what all the world's great religions demand - that we do unto others as we would
have them do unto us. Let us be our brother's keeper, Scripture tells us. Let us
be our sister's keeper. Let us find that common stake we all have in one
another, and let our politics reflect that spirit as well.

For we have a choice in this country.We can accept a politics that breeds
division, and conflict, and cynicism. We can tackle race only as spectacle - as
we did in the OJ trial - or in the wake of tragedy, as we did in the aftermath
of Katrina - or as fodder for the nightly news. We can play Reverend Wright's
sermons on every channel, every day and talk about them from now until the
election, and make the only question in this campaign whether or not the
American people think that I somehow believe or sympathize with his most
offensive words. We can pounce on some gaffe by a Hillary supporter as evidence
that she's playing the race card, or we can speculate on whether white men will
all flock to John McCain in the general election regardless of his policies.

We can do that.

But if we do, I can tell you that in the next election, we'll be talking about
some other distraction. And then another one. And then another one. And nothing
will change.

That is one option. Or, at this moment, in this election, we can come together
and say, "Not this time." This time we want to talk about the crumbling schools
that are stealing the future of black children and white children and Asian
children and Hispanic children and Native American children. This time we want
to reject the cynicism that tells us that these kids can't learn; that those
kids who don't look like us are somebody else's problem. The children of America
are not those kids, they are our kids, and we will not let them fall behind in a
21st century economy. Not this time.

This time we want to talk about how the lines in the Emergency Room are filled
with whites and blacks and Hispanics who do not have health care; who don't have
the power on their own to overcome the special interests in Washington, but who
can take them on if we do it together.

This time we want to talk about the shuttered mills that once provided a decent
life for men and women of every race, and the homes for sale that once belonged
to Americans from every religion, every region, every walk of life. This time we
want to talk about the fact that the real problem is not that someone who
doesn't look like you might take your job; it's that the corporation you work
for will ship it overseas for nothing more than a profit.

This time we want to talk about the men and women of every color and creed who
serve together, and fight together, and bleed together under the same proud
flag. We want to talk about how to bring them home from a war that never
should've been authorized and never should've been waged, and we want to talk
about how we'll show our patriotism by caring for them, and their families, and
giving them the benefits they have earned.

I would not be running for President if I didn't believe with all my heart that
this is what the vast majority of Americans want for this country. This union
may never be perfect, but generation after generation has shown that it can
always be perfected. And today, whenever I find myself feeling doubtful or
cynical about this possibility, what gives me the most hope is the next
generation - the young people whose attitudes and beliefs and openness to change
have already made history in this election.

There is one story in particularly that I'd like to leave you with today - a
story I told when I had the great honor of speaking on Dr. King's birthday at
his home church, Ebenezer Baptist, in Atlanta.

There is a young, twenty-three year old white woman named Ashley Baia who
organized for our campaign in Florence, South Carolina. She had been working to
organize a mostly African-American community since the beginning of this
campaign, and one day she was at a roundtable discussion where everyone went
around telling their story and why they were there.

And Ashley said that when she was nine years old, her mother got cancer. And
because she had to miss days of work, she was let go and lost her health care.
They had to file for bankruptcy, and that's when Ashley decided that she had to
do something to help her mom.

She knew that food was one of their most expensive costs, and so Ashley
convinced her mother that what she really liked and really wanted to eat more
than anything else was mustard and relish sandwiches. Because that was the
cheapest way to eat.

She did this for a year until her mom got better, and she told everyone at the
roundtable that the reason she joined our campaign was so that she could help
the millions of other children in the country who want and need to help their
parents too.

Now Ashley might have made a different choice. Perhaps somebody told her along
the way that the source of her mother's problems were blacks who were on welfare
and too lazy to work, or Hispanics who were coming into the country illegally.
But she didn't. She sought out allies in her fight against injustice.

Anyway, Ashley finishes her story and then goes around the room and asks
everyone else why they're supporting the campaign. They all have different
stories and reasons. Many bring up a specific issue. And finally they come to
this elderly black man who's been sitting there quietly the entire time. And
Ashley asks him why he's there. And he does not bring up a specific issue. He
does not say health care or the economy. He does not say education or the war.
He does not say that he was there because of Barack Obama. He simply says to
everyone in the room, "I am here because of Ashley."

"I'm here because of Ashley." By itself, that single moment of recognition
between that young white girl and that old black man is not enough. It is not
enough to give health care to the sick, or jobs to the jobless, or education to
our children.

But it is where we start. It is where our union grows stronger. And as so many
generations have come to realize over the course of the two-hundred and twenty
one years since a band of patriots signed that document in Philadelphia, that is
where the perfection begins.

---

* "Yes, 'words on a parchment' are never enough, nor are speeches made in a
presidential campaign. That is true of all the candidates, for people in
political office have not been known to initiate important change - like
stopping a war, or helping people in need - unless there was a powerful grass
roots movement of citizens to demand such change. Therefore, if we are to take
this nation out of this immoral and ugly war, bring the troops home, begin to
use our national wealth to assure people of jobs, housing, health care, we
cannot depend on any candidate's words, but only, as in the past, on our
actions. We the people will have to demand change in every way we can, by
protest and civil disobedience if necessary, but never depending on 'words on a
parchment'." - Howard Zinn, author, "A People's History of the United States"

* "I am the son of a black man from Philadelphia, born of the Depression, and a
white woman from South Dakota born into privilege. I was raised by a father who
served his country in WWII and was wounded and decorated. And a mother who
forsook all she had simply in her choice to marry a black man. They went on to
become active in the struggle for civil and women's rights - slaves and
slave-owners - an inheritance I pass on to my precious daughters. And in turn,
humbly also pass on to them the transcript of this, Senator Obama's defining
moment."  -Clark Johnson, actor/director, "The Wire"

* "I write on race - and little else. It's a dreary topic. Although there has
been enormous black progress since the civil rights movement in the 1950s and
'60s, the national conversation on race seems largely frozen in those formative
years. 'Blame Whitey First' has remained the implicit slogan of the civil rights
community and much of the black leadership class, crippling efforts to think
creatively about solving today's race-related problems. So many of the
challenges that African Americans face today have more complicated causes than
mere racism - yet so often, black politicians and activists pretend otherwise.
Thus, I was particularly struck by Sen. Obama's statement that Rev. Jeremiah
Wright has 'a profoundly distorted view.' I am not an Obama voter (wrong party)
and disagree with much in his message. But in celebrating this great country and
rejecting the notion of paralyzing black victimization, he has broken with black
orthodoxy - the first important black politician to do so. Where Obama goes,
will the liberal mainstream follow? How good that would be." - Abigail
Thernstrom, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the co-author of
"America in Black and White: One Nation, Indivisible."

* "Senator Obama's treatise on race relations and the so-called differences
between the 'black' and 'white' experience and how the 'untrained ear' cannot
judge the rants of pastoral bigots and racial rhetoric was flawed. He merely
repeated stereotypes of the so-called typical angry older blacks and prejudiced
older whites who he said were brought up in a segregated era, neither of whom,
he said, he would not 'disown.' But Mr. Obama forgot that many blacks and whites
during that era - they who joined forces against segregative thinking and
practices - were themselves disowned by relatives and friends, just by their
having challenged conventional thinking about race. The truth is that my
mentors, and the giants of the civil rights movement of all colors, struggled
bravely and hopefully for the racial progress that we have achieved in our
present-day America. They knew then, as we know now, that while ours is not a
perfect democracy this nation bestows on its people the blessings of liberty and
individuality, rights that are envied by most of the world where equality of
persons is not even imaginable. It is incumbent on the leader of the free world
and our elected officials of this generation to speak out against all stripes of
bigotry - regardless of the color of the preacher of hate."  - Michael Meyers,
executive director, NY Civil Rights Coalition

* "Obama explicitly denied that he was excusing Wright's views, even as he did
it in exceptionally high-toned sophistry. The reason Obama had to give a
37-minute speech is that he was incapable of saying four unadorned words, 'I
made a mistake.' In the end, Obama made the case for the respectability of a man
who is a hater - and did it, amazingly enough, in a speech devoted to ending
divisiveness." - Rich Lowry, editor, National Review

* "Some critics of the speech feel that - by introducing a seeming moral
equivalence between her casual cringing comments and Rev. Wright's more noxious
statements - Obama is being unfair to the white grandmother who helped raise
him. "Yet, this passage comes after he has discussed how anger, bitterness and
bias have helped contribute to the black community's inability to see
opportunities to improve itself - and Rev. Wright's inability to see progress.
"By bringing his grandmother into the discussion, he is recognizing an
undeniable fact: Not even the most loving person in the world is immune to the
messages sent by society. "And not even truly ill-chosen language can sunder the
tight bonds of family - whether blood or 'adopted.' "  - Robert George, New York
Post editorial writer

* "The primary rhetorical virtue of the speech can be found in two words,
endemic and Faulkner. Endemic is the kind of word political consultants don't
let politicians use because 72% of Americans don't understand it. This
lowest-common-denominator thinking, based on dizzy polling, has long degraded
American discourse. When Obama said Mr. Wright wrongly encouraged 'a view that
sees white racism as endemic,' everyone understood. Because they're not,
actually, stupid. As for Faulkner - well, this was an American politician
quoting William Faulkner: 'The past isn't dead and buried. In fact, it isn't
even past.' This is a thought, an interesting one, which means most current
politicians would never share it. The speech assumed the audience was
intelligent. This was a compliment, and I suspect was received as a gift. It
also assumed many in the audience were educated. I was grateful for this, as the
educated are not much addressed in American politics." - Peggy Noonan, Wall
Street Journal columnist

* "I'm 61. I can remember how horrified I was when that incident with Emmett
Till occurred - I was only 8 years old at the time. I couldn't understand what
anybody could do, especially a 14-year-old boy, to be murdered like that. They
said he had been disrespectful to a white woman and the husband [and others]
murdered him. Then the state of Misssissippi acquits [them] of murder. Soon
after, they said, 'Yeah, we murdered Emmett Till.' From that point on, no white
people in the South wanted to talk about Emmett, because, they confessed, 'He
was black. He means nothing to us.' I couldn't get it, that the nation lets
stuff like this go on. My parents just said, 'That's how certain people deal
with us, because we are black.' " - Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, author of "On the
Shoulders of Giants: My Journey Through the Harlem Renaissance."

* "We're still having the same conflicts about race that we had when I came to
this country nearly 35 years ago. This national conversation should have taken
place a thousand times, but it didn't. Barack Obama's powerful speech sheds
light on the conditions that nurture deepening racial separation,
misunderstandings, and tensions. I, like many Americans, am ready for a leader
like Senator Obama to lead us away from this quagmire."  - Iman, Founder & CEO
IMAN Cosmetics

* "Obama bravely reminded America of our ugly, not-so-distant past; and the deep
pain that the passage of decades does not erase. He did what politicians almost
never do: He told America the truth, despite knowing that many didn't want to
hear it." Kirsten Powers, political analyst, Fox News

* "Many have pointed to the paragraph beginning 'For we have a choice in this
country,' and so do I. Those words resonated for me immediately, and I
understood why: they echo the words of Robert Kennedy in April 1968 as he
struggled to calm the mainly African-American crowd in Indianapolis with his
memorable impromptu announcement that Martin Luther King had just been
assassinated. In the midst of all that shock and sadness, Kennedy gave his
audience the power to make a choice - to respond with hatred and more violence,
or to take this terrible opportunity 'to make an effort to understand, to get
beyond, or go beyond these rather difficult times.' Kennedy's audience made the
right decision. Indianapolis was one of the few large American cities that did
not break out in riots in the emotional days after King's murder. "At this point
in his speech Obama treats his audience like responsible grown-ups. This is not
an easy challenge and he knows it. Many will refuse it. I admire his audacity in
taking that risk." - Marie Danziger, director, Communications Program, John F.
Kennedy School of Government

* "To dissect a fragment out for special focus would be to miss the entire point
of the address. In defending himself so expansively against a potentially
damaging situation he has shown the American people the kind of person he is. I
found the speech courageous in its candor, inclusive, and more thoughtful than
anything I've heard from a politician in a very long time. Taken in its entirety
it has already touched millions of Americans. His words invite us to know
ourselves better, to learn from our own history, and to open our minds to the
validity of the experiences of others. In short, we're being asked to use our
brains as well as our hearts. This is bound to be a challenge to a society which
has been conditioned by our news media, our advertising, and our political
discourse to respond emotionally to very calculated triggers. I hope we can rise
to the challenge."  - Martin Puryear, artist

* "But even in the past, America was not evil. We did not 'drop atomic bombs . .
. and not even bat an eye,' as Wright claims. We dropped them to end a war that
was thrust upon us by a surprise attack and to save lives on both sides. We did
not cause the AIDS epidemic. Rather, we led the world in investing tens of
billions in finding a cure and tens more in spreading that cure throughout the
planet. The evil America that Wright addresses ended in 1865, when 400,000 young
men, largely white, from the north gave their lives to end slavery and make the
south hue to basic standards of humanity. But the ultimate enslavement of black
people in America comes not from AIDS or drugs but from an image of themselves
as victims that lowers their expectations and confines their capacities. If he
wins, it will be the singular accomplishment of Obama that he will shatter that
selfimage and free both races from its restraints."   - Dick Morris, political
columnist

Compiled by Maureen Callahan and Stephen Lynch

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Howard Zinn, Clark Johnson, Abigail Thernstrom, Michael Meyers, Rich
Lowry, Robert George, Peggy Noonan, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Iman, Kirsten Powers,
Marie Danzinger, Martin Muryear, DickMorris. -Barack Obama. [AP] -Howard Zinn,
Clark Johnson, Abigail Thernstrom, Michael Meyers, Rich Lowry, Robert George,
Peggy Noonan, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Iman, Kirsten Powers, Marie Danzinger, Martin
Muryear, DickMorris.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              July 11, 2008 Friday

W. POLLUTED THE AIR AT G8 SUMMIT

BYLINE: GEOFF EARLE Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 173 words


WASHINGTON - President Bush shocked world leaders at the end of a summit on
climate change by concluding his remarks with a joke: "Goodbye from the world's
biggest polluter."

He made his comment at the end of a G8 summit in Japan, where leaders of the
world's industrial nations failed to reach a firm agreement on climate change.

Bush reportedly punched the air and grinned while making his comment.

One official who was there told the Daily Telegraph of London, "Everyone was
very surprised that he was making a joke about America's record on pollution."

The United States produces about a quarter of the world's greenhouse gases.

Many Europeans are critical of Bush for failing to join the Kyoto treaty on
climate change at the start of his administration.

The White House had no immediate comment on the president's crack.

* Bush signed a bill yesterday that overhauls rules about government
eavesdropping and grants immunity to telecommunications companies that helped
the United States spy on Americans in terrorism cases.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESIDENT BUSH Climate-change crack.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

HUNTING AND FISHING GROUPS JOIN WAR ON GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: Ken Moran

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 411 words


HUNTING and fishing organizations from all 50 states are urging their senators
and representatives to target global warming with strong climate legislation.

"America's sportsmen have a special connection to the outdoors, and for that
reason we are on the front lines of global warming," said Larry Schweiger,
National Wildlife Federation's president and CEO. "It has been impossible to
ignore the changes happening before our eyes. You don't need to be a scientist
to feel that something is seriously wrong."

Over 670 hunting and fishing organizations, representing the millions of
Americans who share America's sporting tradition, are calling for climate change
legislation that cuts global warming by two percent a year through a
cap-and-trade system and want dedicated funding for fish and wildlife
conservation and restoration.

Hunting and fishing have traditionally been pillars of American economic
prosperity: 34 million people who hunt or fish in the United States spend $75
billion annually, supporting 1.6 million jobs.

The fish and wildlife that support American sporting traditions are feeling the
heat. For example, trout populations are declining from increased water
temperatures, wetlands critical to waterfowl populations are threatened due to
increasing temperatures and rising sea levels, and in some areas moose and polar
bear populations have plummeted due to warmer weather.

Sportsmen are a powerful political force, but their power lies in their
willingness to take action and make their voices heard. Do you know how any of
the presidential candidates feel about hunting and fishing?

For information about the candidates, you can check their websites, or phone
their campaign offices and ask about the issues that affect your rights as
sportsmen. Here are websites and phone numbers for each presidential candidate:
Hillary Clinton, www.hillaryclinton.com, (703) 469-2008; John McCain,
www.exploremccain.com, (703) 418-2008; Barack Obama, www.barackobama.com, (866)
675-2008.

Even more important than the presidential candidates are the local and state
candidates who want to represent you. State and local representatives are the
people who put into motion most of the laws and ordinances which could affect
your rights as a sportsman or sportswoman.

To find out more information about who your representatives are, and how to get
in touch with them, visit the U.S. Sportsmens Alliance legislative action center
at www.ussportsmen.org.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

OBAMA CAMP'S 'INSULT TO ISLAM' - HEADSCARF LADIES GOT BOOT FROM PHOTO OP

BYLINE: GEOFF EARLE Post Correspondent

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 566 words


WASHINGTON - Volunteers for Barack Obama's campaign refused to allow two women
wearing Muslim headscarves to appear in a photo op with the Democratic
candidate, touching off outrage yesterday in the Arab-American community.

Hebba Aref, a 25-year-old University of Michigan-trained lawyer, said she and
another woman were refused the podium seats - critical turf for campaign TV
image-making - during a huge Obama event in Detroit on Monday.

Aref said a campaign volunteer told a member of her group that the
headscarf-wearing Aref couldn't have a seat close the candidate because of "a
sensitive political climate."

In a separate incident, a second volunteer told friends of Shimaa Abdelfadeel
that if they all wanted key seat positions, then Abdelfadeel would have to
remove her headscarf or stay out of the picture, according to Politico.com,
which first reported the story.

The Obama camp immediately apologized, but Aref and members of her family are
still seething over the slight.

Aref said the whole incident made her doubt Obama's message of inclusiveness.

"As he's saying it, I'm thinking, 'Well, wait a minute, I was obviously . . .
profiled and discriminated against an hour ago.' "

"She was really upset," said Aref's aunt, Eman Salem, who got an emotional phone
call from her niece after Obama's speech at Detroit's Joe Louis Arena Monday.

"I'm very surprised. He's calling for change. And if the change means you
discriminate against Islam and Muslims, I think it is the worst change I can
expect from a campaign," she said.

Aref is American-born, and her parents are Egyptian immigrants. Many Muslim
women say they must wear the headscarf, called the hijab, at all times when they
are in public.

Obama communications director Bill Burton responded by saying, "It is offensive
and counter to Obama's commitment to bring Americans together and simply not the
kind of campaign we run. We sincerely apologize for this behavior."

The Obama campaign pointed to several times when the candidate has been
photographed with women in headscarves - including one Tuesday at Wayne County
Community College outside Detroit.

Michigan, a key battleground state, has one of the nation's highest Muslim
populations.

Hebba Aref said she appreciated the apology but wanted an invitation to sit
behind the podium at a future event. '

It isn't the first time that aides to Obama - who makes ending racial divisions
a hallmark of his campaign - have been accused of crass methods to line up
supporters as human props.

At an April rally at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh for Michelle
Obama, according to a report in the school paper, the Tartan, a campaign aide
could be heard saying to another: "Get me more white people, we need more white
people."

Obama, a Christian whose Kenyan grandfather was a Muslim, has been combating
Internet rumors that he's actually Muslim.

But some Muslims have been offended by the campaign's efforts to fight innuendo.

"I don't want to be called something I'm not, but I felt like . . . everyone was
treating this accusation of being Muslim as though it were some sort of crime or
sin," Aref said.

----

'I'M VERY SURPRISED. HE'S CALLING FOR CHANGE. AND IF THE CHANGE MEANS YOU
DISCRIMINATE   AGAINST ISLAM AND MUSLIMS, I THINK IT IS THE WORST CHANGE I CAN
EXPECT FROM A CAMPAIGN.' - EMAN SALEM, AUNT OF HEBBA AREF, ONE OF THE WOMEN
ASKED TO LEAVE

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIN AND WEAR IT: Barack Obama shaking hands at the Detroit event on
Monday where his aides asked two headscarf-clad Muslim women to leave their
seats by the podium - and the next day (below) outside Detroit with students who
included one gal in the Islamic gear.  [Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 13, 2008 Saturday

PALIN: THERE'LL BE HILL TO PAY - SAYS O WILL 'REGRET' NOT SELECTING HER

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 563 words


Sarah Palin said yesterday that Barack Obama may have blown the election by
refusing to name Hillary Rodham Clinton as his running mate.

"I think he's regretting not picking her now - I do," Palin, John McCain's
vice-presidential pick, told ABC News in a stunning jab at the Democratic
nominee that was clearly intended to win over Clinton backers angry that Obama
passed over their candidate.

The Alaska governor went on the effusively praise Clinton's performance on the
campaign trail in the Democratic primary.

"What determination and grit and even grace through some tough shots that were
fired her way. She handled those well," Palin told ABC's Charles Gibson in her
first extended media interview.

Palin, 44, has galvanized conservatives, bolstered McCain's standing with female
and independent voters, and has attracted tens of thousands to campaign rallies
since joining the ticket.

She had praised Clinton in her first speech after McCain chose her to join the
ticket.

Echoing the former first lady's own speech, Palin had credited her with putting
"18 million cracks in the glass ceiling" - referring to how many votes the New
York senator received in the primaries.

"The women of America aren't finished yet, and we can shatter that glass ceiling
once and for all," Palin had added.

The Obama camp slammed the VP hopeful's gushing praise.

"Sarah Palin should spare us the phony sentiment and respect," said Florida Rep.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz.

For her part, Clinton has pointedly avoided attacking Palin while stumping for
Obama. She even put out a statement praising Palin's "historic nomination."

Clinton will stump for Obama in Ohio tomorrow.

Meanwhile, Palin is not afraid to publicly voice her differences with McCain.

She is urging her running mate to back oil drilling in the environmentally
sensitive Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

McCain has opposed drilling in ANWR. But in the ABC interview, Palin said she
would continue to try to persuade him to adopt her position.

"I'm going to keep working on that one with him . . . We'll agree to disagree,
but I'm gonna keep pushing that, and I think eventually we're all gonna come
together on that one," she said.

Palin, the former head of the Alaska oil and gas commission, noted that her
state provides nearly 20 percent of America's energy resources.

She said drilling exploration would occur in only 2,000 acres out of 20 million
acres.

McCain recently said he would "continue to examine" ANWR, which some politicos
viewed as signal that he was open to adopting Palin's position.

But Palin, previously skeptical that global warming is largely a result of
manmade pollution, changed her tune on the issue during the interview.

Such a shift puts her more in line with McCain, an early proponent of combating
carbon-based climate change.

"I believe that man certainly can be contributing to the issue of global
warming, climate change . . . I am not going to disagree with the point they
[scientists] make that man's activities can be attributed to changes," she said.

Palin also addressed criticism that she might not to be able to juggle raising a
family and helping to run the country.

"I understand what the struggle is, what those internal questions are," she told
ABC. "I've gone through the same thing over these 19 years from having my first
born to today having a newborn."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 31, 2008 Sunday

SOUND OF SILENCE - THE DEMOCRATS' HIGH OMISSIONS CONVENTION

BYLINE: Kyle Smith

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 712 words


Now that we've all chewed over everything the Democrats said last week, let's
ask: What didn't they say?

The Democratic convention in Denver was essentially a tale of eight speeches:
the ones by Mark Warner, Michelle Obama, Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton, Bill
Clinton, John Kerry, Al Gore and Barack Obama.

They informed us that only "a few" men supported the women's suffrage movement,
promised to eliminate the need to import oil within 10 years, attributed a long
quotation to Harriet Tubman that Tubman never said, vowed to use a "line by
line" method of eliminating waste from the government budget more than a decade
after the line-item veto was ruled unconstitutional, and issued an unexpected
yet touching plug for the 1970s TV series "Eight Is Enough."

Eight speakers, and eight is enough. They uncorked nearly 20,000 words of
Champagne wishes and Beltway dreams.

So what words did not escape their lips?

In that Rocky Mountain-high pileup of verbiage, not one of the eight speakers
used the word Christ, Christian or Christianity.

Most of the speakers ended their remarks with "God bless you, and God bless the
United States of America," or similar phrases. (Kerry and Gore didn't mention
God at all.) Apart from those concluding mentions, only Biden and Hillary
Clinton used the word God.

Biden said "God" six times, although his only Christian reference came when he
quoted his mother, who told him, "God sends us no cross that we cannot bear"
after Biden's wife and daughter were killed in an accident. (The rest were
throwaways like "God, I wish [my father] was here tonight.")

Hillary Clinton said she ran for president, in part, "to help every child live
up to his or her Godgiven potential" and concluded by saying, "have faith in
God" and "God bless America and Godspeed to you all." Biden and Sen. Clinton
were also the only ones to use the word "faith" in the religious sense.

The Democrats treated all religions the same, though. The phrase "radical Islam"
went unmentioned. In fact, no one used the words Islam or Muslim or any
derivation thereof. Nor were Jews mentioned, though perhaps that's only because
Democrats have become unwilling characters in the campaign equivalent of a
Robert Ludlum thriller: The Lieberman Heresy.

Global warming, by contrast, received nine mentions (one was a joke), climate
change came up three times, climate crisis six times.

Osama Bin Laden received three mentions, all of which came with the suggestion
that the reason we haven't found him is that we aren't really trying.

Saddam Hussein scored zero mentions. Thanks to Kerry, Karl Rove received more
mentions (four) than either.

Many speakers said it was important to bring our troops home, but Biden, whose
son Beau is scheduled to be deployed to Iraq this fall, was the only one to
express support for what they are currently doing. Even he didn't wish them
success in battle but simply said, "May God protect our troops." No one said
"win the war" or "winning the war" and no one mentioned the Surge. The only
mentions of "army" were two references to an "army of teachers" and three more
in the context of the WWII service of Obama's grandfather and great uncle.

Though the only use of the word "defense" came in the phrase "defense of
torture," there was exactly one gung-ho line about standing up to aggression. It
came from Biden's mother who, according to her son, ordered that when he got
knocked down by bullies, "Bloody their nose so you can walk down the street the
next day," presumably without UN clearance, diplomatic discussions or a period
of economic sanctions.

Hunters, hunting and the Second Amendment went entirely unmentioned until Obama
himself devoted a single sentence to the topic: "The reality of gun ownership
may be different for hunters in rural Ohio than they are [sic] for those plagued
by gang violence in Cleveland, but don't tell me we can't uphold the Second
Amendment while keeping AK-47s out of the hands of criminals."

Abortion was mentioned only once (as something "we may not agree on" - thanks,
Wise One), but the Democrats were bold enough to twice mention another subject
that, like abortion, is both at the heart of their party and a source of
continuing horror, outrage and disgust to millions of others: law school.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Democrats for Dick Van Patten.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday

AN OBAMA PRESIDENCY - IF HE WINS, WHAT HIS CABINET AND FIRST 100 DAYS WILL LOOK
LIKE

BYLINE: MAUREEN CALLAHAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1556 words


If the polls hold, and Democrats heed Barack Obama's warning to not "snatch
defeat from the jaws of victory," the question is: What will an Obama presidency
be like?

The initial test will be the fi rst 100 days, a challenge for every president,
and for which the ideal is FDR, who spent the time working to push through reams
of legislation, with Congress passing every single one of Roosevelt's proposals.

The parallels are there - a dire economic crisis, a Democratic president who may
be working with an overwhelmingly Democratic Congress - and they are not.

"There's been very little to indicate that Obama's got that set of ideas sitting
on the back burner," says presidential historian Sean Wilentz.

"FDR had been governor of New York. He had a lot of time to think about what he
would do."

Obama himself, as early as May of this year, outlined his top three priorities:
withdrawing US troops from Iraq; creating affordable health care; investing in
clean energy. All of these, of course, have been bumped down and shuffl ed
around by the state of the economy, but all three may help determine the rate of
a bounceback.

And so: Obama's first act as President will likely be passing the additional
$300 billion stimulus package Congress is putting together now; the bill is
reported to include an extension of unemployment benefi ts and monies for
improvements in infrastructure.

This all sounds about right to Will Marshall, president of the Progressive
Policy Institute (known in the '90s as "Bill Clinton's idea mill").

"I think we need a basic counter-cycling spending package," Marshall says.
"Infrastructure should trump worthy things - maybe even the college funding
ideas, which I like - and tax cuts." Marshall hopes that a President Obama will
postpone his plans to reduce taxes for the middle class: "I think the public
will be forgiving if Obama says, 'It's worse than we all thought. We're facing a
multi-dimensional crisis - here's a budget that refl ects these new realities.'
"

"Presidents in general, and recently successful candidates in particular, do not
like to think about giving up anything," says Roger Porter, who has served in
senior economic positions in the Ford, Reagan, and Bush 41 administrations.
"When you come in, you have enthusiasm, you're full of hope, you want to do
what's right for the country. Everything seems possible.

Then reality descends."

Within a very short period of time - "weeks," says Porter - a newly sworn-in
President realizes that his vision and plans must be scaled back and downsized,
postponed or compromised. "It's a genuine psychological phenomenon they go
through," he says. "And they all want to be early winners, because it's easier
to get people to work with you. No one wants to work with a loser!"

Porter agrees that a President Obama's fi rst order of business will be passing
legislation to help stabilize the economy via a stimulus package. "Obama
believes that spending is the solution to a lot of things," he says. "But he can
legitimately say that we have to get the economy squared away first."

One likely casualty of the crisis: health care. "You need a lot of money to do a
large health care initiative," says Porter, "and there's no money in the
cupboard to do that."

Despite agitating for troop withdrawals from Iraq within 16 months of taking
offi ce and the redeployment of 1-2 brigades in Afghanistan right away, Obama
has said that he'll wait to see what the conditions are in January 2009 and
adjust accordingly. "Foreign policy is connected to the economy," says historian
Wilentz. "But as his advisers have said about the Iraq war - it's one thing to
talk about what you would do." Translation: don't expect a sudden reversal of
course.

A more certain success for Obama's fi rst 100 days would be the passage of
climate change legislation, most likely in the form of a domestic cap-and-trade
bill - setting the tone for fi rst-term objectives and signaling his willingness
to incentivize new jobs in clean energy.

According to Dan Esty, who is a member of the Obama campaign's energy and
environmental group, "his first issue, straight-up, is the economy - then he
links the economy to climate change. Clean energy fi ts into the $10 billion a
month we spend in Iraq."

Esty predicts that a President Obama's energy package will promise the happy
byproduct of economic growth. "What Saudi Arabia is to oil, the US is to
technology and innovation," Esty says. "This is the one area where the US has
the potential to lead the world."

Which brings us to what may be the most fascinating achievement a President
Obama is likely to accomplish within his fi rst 100 days: technologically
changing the way government works. This summer, Obama said that if elected, he
would consider replacing the President's weekly radio address (archaically known
as "the fi reside chat") with a weekly online chat, answering questions
submitted via e-mail or IM. He's planning to appoint a Chief Technology Offi
cer, and will likely use the e-mail lists he's built up during his campaign to
further his agenda in the White House.

"If he wants to make an end-run around Congress, he can build mass support and
have people pressure Congress directly," says The Atlantic's Marc Ambinder.
(Even if Obama comes into offi ce with a Democratic majority, that will most
likely not remain the case over two terms; he can also rally people to directly
lobby corporations, thereby taking the onus off lawmakers.) "He wants to put the
budget online in a clearer way. He wants to inaugurate a citizen-petition
initiative - like they have in Great Britain - so people can petition the White
House to do certain things. He wants to pay much more attention to public
opinion using a grass-roots approach and good technology."

Ambinder, too, predicts that Obama will deal fi rst with the economy, and then
pass a capandtrade-bill. But he has one caveat: "I don't," he says, "see McCain
doing things much differently."

FOREIGN POLICY

First on a President Obama's foreign policy agenda will be not Iraq but Iran.
"It's his hardest early decision," says Mike O'Hanlon, senior fellow at the
Brookings Institute. "He has to think about how to deal with them as they're
gearing up for their own elections."

O'Hanlon thinks that Obama is likely to hew to a fairly traditional form of
American diplomacy - refusing to engage with Ahmadinejad while signaling his
willingness to meet with a more moderate leader. On Iraq, he'll seek to draw
down troops within his stated timeframe of his fi rst 16 months in offi ce and
deploy more combat brigades to Afghanistan, but has also repeatedly stated that
such action hinges on conditions on the ground.

"Iraq shouldn't be that tough," says O'Hanlon. "That policy should be more on
autopilot than people realize. He can take credit for ending the war without
enacting any real changes in policy." Obama will also go for what a few experts
call "the bold, easy gesture": closing Guantanamo.

Like JFK - the last young, charismatic, inexperienced president - certain world
leaders will probably look to test his fortitude; historian Sean Wilentz thinks
the most likely troublemaker will be Putin. "Right away," he says, "he'll be
testing the mettle not just of Barack Obama but of the new NATO alliance."

And unless an economic summit of world leaders is held abroad, Obama is likely
to spend his fi rst 100 days in Washington. "The emergency is going to keep him
close to the White House," says Wilentz. "A diplomatic tour like the one he took
over the summer - forget about it. He's not going to Berlin anytime soon. The
days of wine and roses are over."

TAXES

If Barack Obama does manage to stick to - and pass - his tax plan, it could be
bad news for New York State.

A study by the Manhattan Institute fi nds that Obama's wealth redistribution
would provide low- and middle-come New York residents with tax credits worth
about $13 billion. But it would increase taxes on the state's high-income
residents by $16 billion. That will only exacerbate the state's own tax
shortfall, and the ability of New York City to retain Wall Street's business.

The report, written by E.J. McMahon, senior fellow for Tax and Budgetary
Studies, says that although New York State has 6.4% of the nation's tax fi lers,
the state's share of tax increases would be 11% - more than any other state
except California.

Obama has said he will increase taxes for households making more than $250,000 a
year. Four percent of all individual New York returns declare more than $200,000
a year (the highest number broken out), while 9% of joint returns top that fi
gure.

Along with the expiration of President Bush's tax cuts - assumed to be allowed
by an Obama presidency - the top brackets "will be raised back to their pre-2001
levels of 36 percent and 39.6 percent, from their current levels of 33 percent
and 35 percent," McMahon writes.

He adds that "changes in taxpayer behavior induced by Obama's proposed tax
increases would reduce New York State personal income tax revenues by $800
million to $1.1 billion. New York City's potential revenue losses over the same
two-year period are estimated at $144 million to $285 million."

So while some may New Yorkers may benefi t on their federal taxes, they'll suff
er from an underfunded city.  - Stephen Lynch

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Barack Obama at the White House. (Getty Images) Barack Obama in front
of the White House. (Photo illustration by Peter LaVigna/N.Y. Post; AP photos)
Barack Obama at the White House. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday

WARM AIL': CLIMATE CHANGE IS SICKENING WORLD

SECTION: Metro Bulldog + Metro; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 167 words


Global warming is driving up the number of heart attacks, asthma and
insect-borne diseases like malaria, scientists are saying.

When it's hot outside, more blood is circulated to the skin to keep you cool,
placing more pressure on the heart, which can cause attacks.

"The result will be fewer deaths from colds and flu, but more from strokes and
heart attacks because of the heat," Dr. Hugh Montgomery, director of the
Institute for Human Health and Performance at University College London, told
The Times of London.

"Global warming means a higher baseline temperature from which there will be
more surges and extreme events."

The heat also brings more insects to the shores. That can wreak havoc on the
developing world, where medications to fight diseases like malaria are not easy
to procure.

Scientists say that by the 2080s we can expect extreme heat every year.

Scientists say children, older people, those living in built-up areas and the
chronically sick are most at risk. Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday

CLIMATE WOE HITS FISHERIES

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 167 words


PARIS - Major world commercial fish stocks could collapse within decades as the
threat by potential climate change could compound damage from pollution and
overfishing, UN officials said yesterday.

Their research sheds new light on an undersea flushing mechanism that helps
renew fish stocks. If this mechanism stops, there is a possibility there will be
a collapse in major fishing grounds in the coming decades, they say.

Although threats to fish supplies from pollution and overfishing have been well
documented, the study authors said this was the first time the combined effect
of those problems and changing temperatures was closely studied.

The Worldfish Center has also warned that any risks of potential global warming
could undermine fisheries but has been more cautious in its estimates. It said
in a recent report that global warming could create such opportunities as
allowing farmers to use flooded areas no longer suitable for crops to cultivate
fish.  Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

GENTLEMEN PREFER TENDING THEIR KIDS

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 788 words


GQ magazine invited me to the Gentlemen's Ball. I'd never heard of it. Publisher
Peter King Hunsinger  said it celebrated the winner of the Better Men Better
World Search. I'd  never heard of that either. He said I'd be with Usher,
Timbaland, Mark Wahlberg, Forest Whitaker. Them I heard of, so I showed up.

Edison Ballroom. Cocktails, seated dinner, hundreds of classy types like
Bergdorf's CEO Jim Gold, Baume & Mercier President Rudy Chavez, although it was
the night of the final, 3,000th presidential debate. Said Peter King Hunsinger.
"Who knew? We booked this a year ago."

I learned lots that night but not from the candidates. From GQ's guests. I
learned the men were all into fatherhood. The ladies? Strictly jewelry.

Mark Wahlberg: "I change diapers all the time. I mean, that's my real work.
Tonight I'm in a blue suit and tie. My dress-up public clothes. At home it's
scrubby stuff because I'm with them all the time. I play with them, bathe them,
get on the floor with them, we go to the park. Nobody troubles us there. The
paparazzi always left me alone. They've only recently begun to bother with me.
But, no matter what, my babies come first." Mark's three are Ella, 4; Michael,
2; and Brendan, the brand-new infant. He so far lacks a wife but has promised to
marry their mom, longtime ladyfriend Rhea Durham, come summer.

Usher: "I'm young. I'm only 30. And I'm grateful for all God's given me, but you
want to know what's the great thing in my life right now? Not my success. My
kid. And I'm so excited, because I have another coming. I'm getting to be a whiz
at taking care of a baby. I'm right there making the formula or changing diapers
like any other father. I can only tell you, having a baby, hugging your own
child, to me is suddenly the greatest joy in my entire life." Usher was not
wearing dress-up public clothes. He was in a sweater. And he and wife Tameka's
8-month-old is also named Usher.

Forest Whitaker, Oscar winner for playing Uganda's Idi Amin and participating at
GQ's charity event because he fund-raises for Uganda's needy: "I soon start
'Hurricane Season' with Renée Zellweger. It's great to be busy, but what makes
me sad is I can't be home for Halloween. I always make a great thing out of
that. I dress up, wear a mask, and my family and I love it. I have four children
- 18, 16, 12, and 10. And I'm a soccer dad. Three of them play soccer. I go to
all their games. My kids fulfill my life. I only wish I could be with them
Halloween." His children bear the names Sonnet, True, Ocean and Autumn. His
wife, Keisha, is a former model.

Now, to the ladies. China's Zhang Ziyi, star of "Memoirs of a Geisha" and
"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Her interest was another lady's brooch. "Ohhh,
so beautiful," she said, staring at it. About her own diamond necklace it was:
"Oh, but not mine. Belong to Yurman. Their company sent it this afternoon for me
to wear. I think it must go back. I hope not. I will know tomorrow."

And blond movie star Diane Kruger, polar opposite in looks but sharing the same
look. Also staring at that same brooch. To break the focus I asked, "So, Diane,
how do you stay so slim?" She said, "I work out all the time. My metabolism is
actually down right now. I'm a size two, but to stay a size two I have to keep
working out." Then: "Do you think that brooch is real?"

I think GQ's Gentlemen's Ball spotlights gentlemen's charities. I don't really
care, because it was a lovely evening. It's just that I'm still not exactly sure
what it is.

THE Prince Albert event at Cipriani? They played Monaco's national anthem. They
did not play the Star-Spangled Banner. And Charlene, his future maybe Serene
Highness wife, was there. Blond, tall, willowy. And waiting . . . The Natural
History Museum's Climate Change exhibit took two years to complete, was done in
tandem with nine other countries, and guesses global warming might reverse - in
40 years . . . James McAvoy, who co-starred with Keira Knightley in "Atonement,"
has a small unchic flat in London, supermarket shops himself, and says: "I still
drive a 10-year-old Nissan. I hate celebrity bull - - -  . . . Robert Downey
Jr., Sherlock Holmes in a film Guy Ritchie - of whom you may have heard - is
directing, talks in his sleep. And not about Madonna . . . Small little joke
from p.r. man Saul Richfield: Daniel Radcliffe, who goes naked in "Equus," is
"making his Broadway debutt."

CONFUCIUS say: Should you get depressed these days and think nobody cares if you
live or die, try missing a few loan shark payments.

MENDICANT on Third Avenue telling a passer-by that, because of the economic
climate, he may have to start his Christmas shoplifting earlier.

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday

AXES ARE IN VOGUE - NASTIES FEAR NEWHOUSE'S WINTER SHAKEUPS

BYLINE: KEITH J. KELLY

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 771 words


In the lavish world of Condé Nast, every year brings a winter of discontent -
and the one coming up might be particularly cruel.

That's because following a shocking round of job cuts last month involving 5
percent of Condé's staff, people inside the publishing empire behind such posh
titles as Vogue, Vanity Fair and The New Yorker fret the company could be in for
even more drama.

At the center of it all is the reclusive Chairman S.I. Newhouse Jr., whose
annual tradition of making big strategic changes at the company in January looms
particularly large, thanks to a slowing economy.

Indeed, Januaries past have been when Newhouse has hired and fired company
presidents, appointed publishers or made other big changes at the company.

Newhouse is famous for taking most of December off for an annual European
vacation, which starts not long after the company's holiday lunch at the Four
Seasons for publishers and top editors. Many speculate that part of his
sabbatical is spent figuring out what at Condé Nast needs fixing.

"Si likes to think things over on that December break and then come back and
make changes," said one former executive.

Nobody can figure out how the secretive Newhouse works. One staffer remembers
seeing Newhouse and then-CEO Steve Florio go out to lunch one January in 2004. A
few days later, Charles Townsend was named the new CEO.

While the anticipation of what might change after Newhouse returns is nothing
new, the anxiety has been ratcheted up sharply this year given the company's
response to the advertising slowdown. Townsend would only say, "We are moving
forward with the transition."

In the past, an extreme economic crunch might have elicited warnings for
lower-ranked staff to cut back on late-night in-office meals or curtail use of
car services. This time, however, some fear that the round of layoffs seen last
month signal an entirely new climate at the company.

"I wouldn't be surprised if there are more by the end of year," said one nervous
insider of the cutbacks.

Added a former Condé Nast executive, "I think everyone is a little bit
shell-shocked. It was always a pretty protected place. Now the feeling is, '[The
economic downturn] has hit us, too.'"

Already, there have been casualties. Men's Vogue last month was scuttled as a
standalone magazine and its staff was let go. It will now run as a supplement in
regular Vogue twice a year. Finance mag Portfolio cut its frequency back to 10
times a year from 12.

But that might not be the end. Other titles that are potential targets for
shutdown include Elegant Bride, an upscale bridal magazine that consistently
loses $4 million to $6 million a year.

Some insiders predict more cuts at The New Yorker as the weekly is predicted to
slide back into the red for the first time since 2002.

But Townsend insists that The New Yorker will come back.

"Advertising revenues are a reflection of the economy and the economy has taken
a tremendous blow in recent months," he said. "But it would be a mistake to
think that as a result it isn't contributing to our overall finances."

Condé Nast lost more than 9 percent of its ad pages in the first nine months of
the year.

Against that drop, people inside and outside the company wonder how Portfolio
can find its way to profitability, and embattled Editor-in-Chief Joanne Lipman
can survive.

Two weeks ago, there were also rumors swirling that Richard Beckman, the man in
charge of the group-sales division was on the way out. But that chatter appears
to be unfounded.

Townsend, through a spokeswoman, insisted such speculation "is absolutely not
true."

Another insider said, "I don't think it would be a good time to cut loose the
best salesman the company has."

Beckman's group is now said to generate about 75 percent of the total ad revenue
pulsing through the Conde Nast empire.

Still, despite the show of support, one of Beckman's pet projects, the
mega-spectacular Fashion Rocks show, was canceled for 2009. And 10 people were
recently axed from his staff of 140.

NO TIME TO SI

Condé Nast chief Si Newhouse has a track record of coming back from vacation and
shaking up the empire for the new year.

CONDE NAST

Jan. 1994

*   Replaces legendary Editorial Director of Vogue (right) Alexander Liberman
with wunderkind James Truman.

*   Condé Nast President Bernie Leser is replaced with Steve Florio.

Jan. 2004

*   Florio pushed upstairs after leading the publishing division for a decade.

Jan. 2005

*   James Truman leaves Condé Nast for Spain.

Jan. 2009

*   Oust Joanne Lipman, Editor Portfolio (right)?

*   Ax Drew Shutte, New Yorker publisher?

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SI NEWHOUSE. (Steven Hirsch)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 21, 2008 Monday

REVENGE OF NERDS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 814 words


In a series of makeovers and perked-up approaches to the often unwieldy
knowledge of science, several titles devoted to the subject are starting to
capture new generations of readers.

Discover has perfected its formula of making science accessible to a broad range
of brainy people. Its cover story, "Did Life Begin in Ice?", introduces a
radical theory that could alter the debate on climate change and open new doors
of exploration. And it was presented as a clear and pleasing mental treat. For
the eye, it offers a spread on the year's "most amazing science photos" (some
truly are). For the busy, it offers an assortment of fast, half-page gems
ranging from deadly microbes from outer space to an explanation of why extension
cords mysteriously get tangled into knots.

The growing buzz for science has brought a new entry to the field, Science
Illustrated, a glossy, upbeat entrant from giant Swedish publisher Bonnier. It's
aiming to appeal to general audiences curious about how science affects them in
the everyday world. Its cover story tackles the fascinating extremes of nature,
and looks at medicine of the future, such as how to make a bionic eye. It also
reports on new life-saving cures found in deadly snake venom. The issue also
might settle some bar bets with its spread on migration of early humans, and
where they came from and where they wound up. (You'll never guess who your
relatives might be.)

Popular Science, which also is published by Bonnier, is known for its 85 percent
male readership with its focus on gadgets and war material. Popular Science
always seems to tell you something interesting even if you flunked your
eighth-grade science class. We enjoyed checking out new gadgets, like the new
ultra-flat screen LCD TVs and the new automatic transmission motorcycle from
Honda. Unless you're really into flying, skip the feature on new designs for
more fuel-efficient planes and jump to the piece on how banks handle your money
in cyberspace.

For those in the mood for some light reading, Scientific American delivers a
special report on the future of physics. Anchoring the package is a look at the
prospects for the pending activation of the Large Hadron Collider, the biggest,
most complicated particle physics experiment ever, which could rewrite many
important assumptions about the laws of physics. Also inside is a frightening
look at how newly discovered quantities of water under the polar icecaps, caused
by global warming, may ultimately raise global sea levels.

This week's double issue of Time shows how the mag is moving away from the hard
news of its rivals to offer softer but equally interesting coverage of cultural
phenomena. The package on the science of love and romance is a fascinating read
and includes several different pieces on the biological reasons why human beings
have a penchant for flirting and romance - it's not all about procreating,
folks. On the political front, Time does its best to analyze the race but finds
itself falling behind again. There's a piece on Mitt Romney's victory in
Michigan, but it feels stale after John McCain's victory in South Carolina over
the weekend. But we did enjoy the analysis of how the black vote in South
Carolina could be the turning point in the Democratic primary next weekend.

If you're a political junkie who can't get enough, Newsweek has everything you
need. There's a guest editorial by Michael Gerson, a former speechwriter and
senior adviser to President Bush, who concludes the GOP is in trouble and
loyalists can place nearly all the blame squarely at the president's feet. On
the Democratic side, the mag sits down with Michelle Obama, who talks about the
fear she has begun to feel for her husband's safety. Jonathan Alter gets a great
inside-the-Beltway scoop on how top leaders in the Democratic Party are urging
former President Bill Clinton to stop attacking Sen. Barack Obama. They fear he
could be harming his role as an elder statesman by campaigning for his wife.

The New Yorker gets a bit tabloidy this week with a humorous piece by Adam
Gopnik on the hypocrisy of the French obsession with the romance between
President Nicolas Sarkozy and his new squeeze, Carla Bruni. In more serious
fare, veteran political reporter George Packer contrasts the leadership styles
of Sen. Hillary Clinton and Obama. The two front-runners for the Democratic
nomination have vastly different approaches for how to run the country with
Clinton acting more like a hands-on CEO and Obama having more of a big-picture
vision that may indicate his unwillingness to get involved in policy details.
The most compelling piece, however, is Steve Coll's investigation into the
assassination of Benazir Bhutto.

---

On the Newsstand

Discover: 2 1/2 stars

Science Illustrated: 2 1/2

Popular Science: 3

Scientific American: 2 1/2

The New Yorker: 2 1/2

Time: 3

Newsweek: 3

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday

THREAT LEVEL IS 'GREEN' - MIKE'S ECO WARNING

BYLINE: DAVID SEIFMAN City Hall Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 348 words


Global warming is "just as lethal" as terrorism because it "has the potential to
kill everybody," Mayor Bloomberg said yesterday.

"This is just as important as stopping nuclear proliferation," he told reporters
after addressing an environmental conference at the United Nations.

"This is just as important as stopping terrorism . . . This really is just as
lethal. It's just the results are something we will face long term."

Bloomberg has been hammering hard on his environmental plank since April, when
his administration released an ambitious blueprint for cutting the city's carbon
emissions by 30 percent through 2030.

Yesterday, the mayor offered a frightening vision of the unimpeded effects of
climate change, arguing it has the same potential for causing calamity as
terrorism and nuclear weapons falling in the hands of the wrong people.

"We should go after terrorists every place in the world, find them and kill
them," the mayor said.

"Weapons of mass destruction - if they get out of the hands of the countries
that have them and get into the hands of terrorists, the potential is just
mind-boggling . . . Global warming is a much longer-term thing. But it has all
the same potential of destroying the planet we live on."

In his speech before the General Assembly, Bloomberg called for a carbon tax in
the United States and commitments by China and India to "accept the burden of
greatness" by setting energy-efficiency standards.

He also announced that the city would immediately cut its use of tropical
hardwoods by 20 percent to help protect rainforests and that it would look for
long-term methods of eliminating them entirely.

Rainforest Relief, an advocacy group, estimates that New York City is the
largest consumer of hardwood in North America. The woods are used for
boardwalks, park benches, the Brooklyn Bridge walkway and other construction
projects.

The city's bill for hardwoods is estimated at $1 million.

"This is a big deal," said Tim Keating, the group's executive director. "We've
been working on this exact thing for 13 years."

(p. 8 in metro)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'LETHAL AS TERROR': Mayor Bloomberg addresses a UN environmental
conference yesterday.   [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 2, 2008 Monday

A STANDARD UPHELD

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 340 words


John D. Rockefeller, one the most famous businessmen in US history, might well
be amused by the civil war pitting his biological descendants against his
corporate heirs.

For the record, those on the corporate side are in the right.

Rockefeller founded Standard Oil in 1870; its corporate descendant is
ExxonMobil, now run by Rex Tillerson.

Tillerson rightly sees his chief responsibility as extracting energy from the
earth to help fuel the global economy, including America's - while, of course,
returning a reasonable profit to shareholders.

In opposition are 66 descendants of old John D., who've been pushing Exxon to
become more "green" - that is, to spend more on alternative-fuel and
climate-change research.

So, at the annual shareholders meeting last week, Clan Rockefeller tried to get
other shareholders to back a proposal to force Tillerson to give up one of his
titles - CEO or chairman - in order to end an allegedly "insular" culture.

Happily, that proposal - along with 16 others pushed by the Rockefeller bloc -
was voted down.

Yes, ExxonMobil produced a record $40 billion in profits last year - which
critics claim is prima facie evidence of rapacious price-gouging. In fact, it's
no record return: Exxon's total sales last year exceeded $404 billion - for a
less-than-extravagant profit margin of 10 percent.

The profits reflect a huge worldwide demand for oil - as well as enormous past
investment. Indeed, measured as a return on investment, Exxon's profits were in
the single digits.

That's particularly significant - for the company has also been the global
leader in exploration. From 2004 to 2006, Exxon was alone among major
international oil companies in discovering more barrels of oil than it produced.

In short, Rex Tillerson is doing his job, and the majority of ExxonMobil
shareholders supported him for doing it well.

John D. Rockefeller would likely recognize that his corporate descendant is
closer to being his spiritual heir than are those who happen to share his name
by accident of birth.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John D. Rockefeller

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

BUBBA'S REMINDER: DON'T FORGET THE WORLD'S SUFFERING

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 229 words


Amid fears that the economic crisis could hinder humanitarian efforts, Bill
Clinton's annual summit of world leaders and celebrities opened yesterday in
Midtown with the ex-president sharing the stage with the rock star Bono and
dignitaries including Al Gore.

The financial crisis underscores the importance of taking a global perspective,
Clinton said.

"This crisis is not an excuse to walk away from the world's challenges but a
compelling reason to intensify efforts to meet them around the corner and around
the world," Clinton said at his annual Clinton Global Initiative.

Former Vice President Gore pointed to a number of natural disasters, from
hurricanes on the Gulf Coast to fires in California, as evidence.

"Since we met here last year, the world has lost ground to the climate crisis,"
Gore said at the opening session of the Clinton Global Initiative. "This is a
rout. We are losing badly."

"This is the result of a dysfunctional, insane global system pattern that we
have to change."

The Clinton Global Initiative get-together, at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers,
coincided with the UN General Assembly meeting. Clinton and his former vice
president were together on the same stage, eight years after they left the White
House. They avoided politics and exchanged pleasantries as Gore thanked Clinton
for his efforts with the summit.                    AP

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 3, 2008 Monday

WHERE CANDIDATES STAND ON THE ISSUES

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 461 words


TAXES

* McCain: Preserve current tax rates and slash corporate taxes 25%; cut estate
tax

* Obama: Hike taxes for businesses, individuals and families making more than
$250,000; cut taxes for those making less than $200,000

IRAQ

* McCain: Win the war; favors permanent US peacekeepers and opposes withdrawal
timetable; advocated troop surge

* Obama: Withdraw troops in 16 months; opposed war and troop surge

ENERGY

* McCain: Increase offshore drilling and build new nuclear plants; offer prize
for improved hybrid battery

* Obama: Develop biofuel, wind, solar, noncorn ethanol and hybrid technology;
limit expansion of drilling; increase fuel efficiency standards; pass oil-profit
windfall tax

EDUCATION

* McCain: Offer school choice, including vouchers; offer more money for
community college

* Obama: Encourage prekindergarten; tie teacher pay to text scores; overhaul No
Child Left Behind

IMMIGRATION

* McCain: Secure border first; backed bill to give illegal immigrants path to
citizenship

* Obama: Supported border fence, as well as path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants

HEALTH CARE

* McCain: Offer tax credits to help uninsured buy coverage; subsidize highrisk
plans for those who can't get health care

* Obama: Cover all kids; require large to mid-size employers to offer coverage
or pay fee; force insurers to cover existing illnesses

IRAN

* McCain: Toughen sanctions and shun direct talks with Tehran

* Obama: Talk with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad

MARKET REGULATION

* McCain: Toughen disclosure and capital requirements for financial firms; let
shareholders vote on executive pay

* Obama: Toughen disclosure and capital requirements for financial firms; more
federal oversight of hedge funds; hike penalties for predatory lending and
market tinkering

TRADE

* McCain: Expand free-trade pacts

* Obama: Reopen NAFTA to add labor and environmental protections; has criticized
other free-trade pacts

SOCIAL SECURITY

* McCain: Allow younger workers to invest portion of payroll taxes in market;
cut benefit growth rather than raise taxes

* Obama: Raise payroll taxes on income more than $250,000. Opposes investment
accounts

CLIMATE CHANGE

* McCain: Supports cap-and-trade system to cut greenhouse emissions; offer tax
credits for zero-emission cars; develop clean coal

* Obama: Cut greenhouse emissions through cap-and-trade plan; develop clean coal

GUN CONTROL

* McCain: Opposes assault-weapons ban; require background checks at gun shows

* Obama: Voted to allow liability suits against gunmakers and dealers; supported
stricter gun control while in Illinois Legislature

ABORTION

* McCain: Seek to overturn Roe vs. Wade

* Obama: Protect abortion rights

GAY MARRIAGE

* Obama: Opposes legalization

* McCain: Opposes legalization

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: U.S. soldier. [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 21, 2008 Sunday

O TAPS SCIENCE TEAM

BYLINE: Ginger Adams Otis

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 160 words


Pledging to "once again put science at the top of our agenda," President-elect
Barack Obama yesterday named four leading experts in climate change and
scientific research as his latest White House appointees.

"From landing on the moon, to sequencing the human genome, to inventing the
Internet, America has been the first to cross that new frontier because we had
leaders who paved the way," Obama said during his weekly address.

John Holdren will be his White House science adviser and Jane Lubchenco will
head the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversees
government research on global warming.

Holdren also will direct the president's Council of Advisers on Science and
Technology. Co-chairmen will be Nobel Prize-winning scientist Harold Varmus and
MIT genome expert Eric Lander.

Obama is also expected to select former Navy Adm. Dennis Blair to be the
director of national intelligence, according to published reports.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday

AL TOUTS GREEN APPLE

BYLINE: Frankie Edozien

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 119 words


Former Vice President Al Gore came to City Hall yesterday to talk with Mayor
Bloomberg about his hope to plant 1 million trees on Big Apple streets.

"I've been a big fan of Mayor Bloomberg's outspoken advocacy of solving the
climate crisis," said Gore, who has evolved into a Nobel Prize-winning
environmental activist.

Bloomberg has made sustainability issues a cornerstone of his administration,
and his PlaNYC agenda - an attempt to make the city greener by 2030 - has been
lauded by environmentalists.

"We've talked several times in the past, and I've enjoyed this conversation. It
was a private conversation, nothing mysterious about it, just ways of working
together to solve the climate crisis," Gore said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday

THEY NEVER LEARN - OBAMA IS EVERYTHING THEY WANTED, YET DEMOCRATS STILL PROTEST

BYLINE: Maureen Callahan

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2115 words


Ask people who were there, and they will tell you that Barack Obama's candidacy
is a direct descendant of the 1968 Democratic Convention: the intra-party
fighting, the metastasizing anti-war movement, the campaign against poverty and
for civil rights, the riots in Chicago's streets.

Aside from stripping party bosses of their grip (Dem candidate Hubert Humphrey,
who had never competed in a single primary, was the backroombrokered nominee,
with Eugene McCarthy, the popular anti-war candidate, summarily dispatched), the
fallout from the '68 convention ultimately resulted in the creation - irony of
ironies - of superdelegates.

Today, with the country mired in an unpopular war and a worsening recession, one
would assume that the emergence of a young, charismatic, popular nominee, the
first black candidate for President, would result in an ecstatic exercise in
party unity, a 40th anniversary celebration of what '68 wrought, optimistic and
forward-looking.

One would be wrong.

"I think we'll blow out '68, dwarf it," says Glenn Spagnuolo, founder of the
unfortunately named Recreate '68. At 37, Spagnuolo wasn't even alive during the
1968 Chicago convention, but that doesn't make him any less nostalgic for those
days. Recreate '68 is coordinating with about 100 groups (including World Can't
Wait and SDS) for four days of marching, puppetry, public nudity and street
theater.

Speaking of: What is with the left's obsession with puppets and street theater?
"Being pissed off and angry - that's not something that attracts many people,"
he says. "Having a smile on your face, having fun - that makes people feel
good."

Spagnuolo does not want McCain to win but wants Obama to lose and does not see
the contradiction inherent in this thinking. He does not think it ironic that he
has adopted the Black Power symbol as his group's logo: "Black power will be
expressed with our speakers at the protests," he says. "Barack Obama is not the
first black man to run for president. He's the first black man that white
America is willing to accept." (Spagnuolo is white.)

His organization's number one concern, he says, is ending the Iraq War, but
Spagnuolo never really considered mobilizing and protesting at the GOP
convention with the same gusto.

"Going to the Republican convention is a feel-good exercise that ultimately
falls on deaf ears," he says dismissively. "We feel we can move the Democrats
back to where they once were."

Alex Keyssar, a professor of history and social policy at Harvard Kennedy
School, finds a lot of this stuff pretty funny.

"The '68 convention created a sense in Middle America that the Democrats are a
completely disorganized, chaotic group, hurling tomatoes at one another," he
says. "So that Nixon, the least liked politician in the 20th century, gets
elected!"

Now they're making the same mistake all over again.

*

Which brings up another unfortunate parallel: the disunity on display by the
party leaders. Just as the Dems engaged in an on-site battle over McCarthy and
Humphrey (marking it the last Democratic convention where choices were actually
made), this year, the specter of Bill and Hillary Clinton, Hillary's inclusion
in roll call and nomination, and vocal pro-Hillary protests threaten to further
degrade party unity. (Meanwhile, a dissatisfi ed Republican party nonetheless
coalesces around John McCain.)

As Keyssar puts it: "For the last 20 years, the Democrats have had a less
coherent ideology and thus a less coherent sense of party purpose. The GOP has
different wings, but they are unified."

Of the substantial pro-Hillary factions heading to Denver, there are two: PUMA
and PUMA. Naturally, they are at odds with each another.

One is a political action committee, one is not. The one that is not is run by
36-year-old Will Bower; his acronym stands for "Party Unity My Ass." The PUMA
PAC is run by Darragh Murphy, who fi nds "party unity my ass" a juvenile slogan.
(Her acronym stands for "party unity means action.")

Bower claims he does not know what people mean when they refer to him and his
group as "dead-enders." He believes the Obama nomination is fraudulent, and his
PUMA, along with another group called Just Say No Deal, will be lobbying
delegates and superdelegates to change their votes for Hillary. For him, getting
Clinton nominated is more important than the war, the economy, climate change
and women's rights. He does not care if party disunity loses the Democrats the
White House.

So: what does he say to arguments that this kind of factionalism is a prime
example of the Democratic Party destroying its best chances from within? "I
would say that they're right," Bower says.

Murphy's PUMA PAC is planning a candelight vigil for Hillary called "The
Beautiful Protest." (Possibly more worrisome than party selfsabotage: cliched
thinking. By contrast, the Yippie activists in Chicago nominated a literal pig
for president.) Murphy, a 39-year-old Bostonian who says "this is all I do,"
admits she is "marginally" familiar with the '68 Democratic convention. Still,
she strongly disapproves of the Recreate '68 people - "hooligans endorsing
violence, chaos, and the destruction of property."

While Murphy does not want a McCain presidency, she maintains that "it is in our
best interest if Obama loses."

Like Bower, she believes Obama stole the nomination, and that Hillary won the
popular vote. She is counting the disqualified Florida and Michigan votes, then?
"Of course I am," she says. "That's an absurd question."

But she too admits that "the Democrats never miss an opportunity to miss an
opportunity."

"For some strange reason, people love to demonstrate at the Democratic
convention," says photographer Jo Freeman, who covered the '68 convention. "And
the protesters are either Democrats, ex-Democrats, or family members of
Democrats."

Freeman, who sees Obama as the "number one legacy" of the 1968 convention,
dismisses modern day protests as poseur politics. "Demonstrations have become
institutionalized - it's part of the [convention] scene, to have a
demonstration."

In "Grooving in Chi," his firstperson account of the chaos at the '68
convention, the writer Terry Southern referred to one malcontent on the scene as
"a compulsive organizer."

The term, which sounds like a recently discovered mental disorder, is as
relevant today. "I do think they might blow it," says Keyssar of the Dems.
"Their historical track record in losing elections is very good!"

Keyssar also thinks that Obama's concentration on "vague rubrics like hope and
change" allows his enemies - from without and within - to go after his
character. "By not emphasizing programmatic solutions, as did Edwards - rest his
soul - with poverty, the focus goes back to who you are as a person."

Just as Hubert Humphrey's own party orchestrated an inside job against his
candidacy - even though he was the far better option to end an unpopular war -
they ultimately helped throw the election, albeit by a narrow margin, to Nixon.
The party's incumbent president, Lyndon Johnson, was so unpopular he not only
declined to run for a second term but stayed away from the convention; by
contrast, George Bush and his 29% approval rating will still appear at the GOP
convention.

It's hard to say whether the Democratic party would display more or even less
unity if, as in 1968, there were a draft. But it is fair to say that, 40 years
ago, there was a coherent agenda on the part of the protesters, spearheaded by
the group that would come to be known as "The Chicago Eight." Included among
them: Tom Hayden, future senator and husband of Jane Fonda; yippie Abbie
Hoffman, Black Panther Bobby Seale (who would later be tried separately, leading
to the appellation "The Chicago 7") and scientist John Froines.

"My thing was, the Democratic party supported and promulgated the war in
Vietnam," says Froines, who has little tolerance for those planning to
demonstrate at the 2008 convention. "This convention is a different situation.
The 'war' party is the Republican party. Unity is quite crucial to ensure that
we don't have more years of the Bush administration."

The '60s generation was also reeling from the assassinations, just months prior,
of Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King, and fearful that the issues for which
those men fought - peace, an end to poverty, civil rights - would be cast aside
by a Democratic nominee self-selected by the establishment. Hence: eight days of
demonstrations, mainly outside, thousands of people protesting in the streets,
the cops tear-gassing and beating demonstrators - all broadcast on the evening
news.

"There had to be a confrontation between old and new ideas," says Froines, now
69 and a professor at UCLA. "The country was in the throes of a real confl
agration. I think what happened had to happen."

*

By contrast, today's Dem protesters seem to have more in common with characters
in a Christopher Guest mockumentary. Their schedule for this week includes
"levitating" the Denver Mint (an homage to an old Yippie attempt to levitate the
Pentagon), a demonstration to "reclaim the streets" (from whom is not clear),
the aforementioned puppetry. Just as in '68, Denver has instituted an 11 p.m.
curfew in its city parks. There is a Lincoln Park in Denver, where activists
will attempt to simulate the discord that took place in Lincoln Park in Chicago.
There will be the creation of a "Tent State," a pun on Kent State (the
university where, in 1970, the National Guard shot 13 students, killing four and
wounding nine). Then there is the grand finale: a protest outside Invesco Field
against Obama's acceptance of the nomination.

They shouldn't expect much support from those who were there in 1968.

"I see Obama as the son of the '68 convention," says the MC5's Wayne Kramer,
whose band performed a legendary set in Chicago, under the blades of a hovering
police copter, electricity stolen from a nearby hot-dog stand. (He enjoys the
urban myth that the MC5 played for 12 hours straight: "It was more like 50
minutes," he says. "We had to stop for some street theater, kids in Richard
Nixon masks.")

Kramer, an Obama supporter, will play with Rage Against the Machine at this
year's convention (he is anti-war), but he is less than enthusiastic about a
group like Recreate '68. "I felt like what we were doing was crazy and dangerous
and romantic, but that we were part of a useful rebellion," says Kramer. "Just
to be defiant is a negative thing."

As Keyssar points out, one of the lasting legacies of the '68 convention has
been "the professionalization of politics - conventions then were still seen as
places where decisions were made and things happened. Now, they are largely seen
as infomercials." (To that end, he thinks reading Hillary's name at roll call is
unhelpful.)

Froines - now an enthusiastic Obama supporter, thanks to his 25year-old son -
wishes that everyone would just let the '60s go. "The nostalgia we have for that
period is all well and good, but we have to get beyond that," he says. "We were
a movement, but movements have to die."

SCHEDULE FOR ANARCHY

Recreate '68 has a schedule of demonstrations for the length of the Democratic
Convention in Denver. Its schedule, including levitation:

Today

9 a.m.-3 pm. - End the War/End All Occupations rally. March starting at State
Capital steps, to the Convention Center, performance by Dead Prez

1-4:30 p.m. - FUNK the WAR Dance for Peace Party

Monday

9 a.m. - Rally at "freedom cage" - a concrete pen to hold protesters - to
demonstrate against the freedom cage

10 a.m. - Protest against Political Prisoners and Human Rights Abuses

5 p.m. -Street theater outside the Denver Mint: "We're gonna chant and sing and
levitate the Mint and redistribute the wealth."

6 p.m. - Everything for Everyone anti-capitalist march.

Tuesday

11 a.m. - A parade with floats and puppets, going all the way to the Pepsi
Center.

2 p.m. - Public Enemy, a group that has not been relevant since 1994, will
perform.

"3ish" - Confront the Spectacle rally to demonstrate against the convention and
Obama's nomination

Wednesday

11 a.m. - Rage Against the Machine, a group not relevant since 1997, will
perform.

2 p.m. - "School of the Americas-School of the Assassins" teach-in/workshop

6 p.m. - Double-header featuring the hoariest of antiauthoritarian
malcontenents: Ralph Nader at the "Open the Debates" rally plus a Critical Mass
bike ride

All day: Off-site demonstrations outside corporate criminal headquarters

Thursday

9 a.m. - No Borders march for immigrant's rights

1:15 p.m. - "Dems Against Marijuana Prohibition" rally

2 p.m. - March to Invesco Field to protest Obama's acceptance of the nomination.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Protestors clash with police outside the 1968 Chicago convention.
(Bettmann/Corbis ; AP) Forty years ago, they were protesting the war on the
inside; this year, those will be Hillary banners. (Arthur Rothstein/Corbis) The
celebrities of 1968: Roosevelt Grier, Shirley MacLaine, Paul Newman and Arthur
Miller. This year, they're expecting Ben Affleck, Oprah and Bono. Right,
anti-war protestors rally in '68.  (Santi Visalli/Getty Images; AP ;
Bettman/Corbis) Recreate '68's Glenn Spagnuolo. (Jason Nicholas) A delegrate
burns his draft card at the 1968 Democratic Convention. Forty years later, the
Dems have a black, anti-war candidate - so of course, they're still upset. (AP)
Protestors clash with police outside the 1968 Chicago convention.
(Bettmann/Corbis ; AP) Forty years ago, they were protesting the war on the
inside; this year, those will be Hillary banners. (Arthur Rothstein/Corbis) The
celebrities of 1968: Roosevelt Grier, Shirley MacLaine, Paul Newman and Arthur
Miller. This year, they're expecting Ben Affleck, Oprah and Bono. Right,
anti-war protestors rally in '68.  (Santi Visalli/Getty Images; AP ;
Bettman/Corbis) Recreate '68's Glenn Spagnuolo. (Jason Nicholas)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday

BEST BUY BLUES - ELECTRONICS GIANT SLASHES FORECAST AS HOLIDAYS LOOM

BYLINE: JAMES COVERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 547 words


Electronics giant Best Buy dramatically slashed its profit forecast, blaming a
gloom-and-doom holiday outlook that already sent archrival Circuit City into
bankruptcy earlier this week.

The nation's largest electronics chain - despite a reputation for drumming up
business during the toughest times - warned comparable sales will see steep
plunges in the coming months as skittish shoppers rein in purchases of
big-ticket appliances, computers, and flat-screen TVs.

"Since mid-September, rapid, seismic changes in consumer behavior have created
the most difficult climate we've ever seen," said Brad Anderson, CEO of the
42-year-old company. "Best Buy simply can't adjust fast enough to maintain our
earnings momentum for this year."

Best Buy also admitted its $2.5 billion credit line was hit when Lehman Brothers
- one of the key lenders for the facility - went bankrupt in September.

Despite Anderson's initial pleas that the Lehman bankruptcy wouldn't directly
affect Best Buy, the retailer said it has been forced to make up for the lost
borrowing capacity with a new, $150 million line of credit.

"Borrowings against it will be costly," Carol Levenson, an analyst at
bond-research firm Gimme Credit, warned of the new credit line, which was
arranged by JPMorgan Chase.

Sources said Best Buy is being forced to borrow more cash because, in addition
to sagging sales, it faces tighter credit from skittish suppliers as it
struggles to keep shelves stocked during the holiday crunch. A lack of vendor
support was the key factor that forced the bankruptcy of Circuit City.

Best Buy's announcement was a shock to investors, who had bid up the retailer's
shares earlier this week, betting it would gain new customers as Circuit City
filed for Chapter 11 and Tweeter - a smaller electronics retailer with 94 stores
- said it would liquidate its chain altogether.

Best Buy shares yesterday tumbled $1.91, or 8 percent, to close at $21. 97.

The retailer said it now expects earnings per share between $2.30 and $2.90 -
down sharply from its earlier view of $3.25 to $3.40. The company also expects
same-store sales - or sales at stores open at least a year - to decline between
1 percent and 8 percent for the year, versus its previous outlook for a 2
percent to 3 percent gain.

Revenues will be hit partly by lower demand for big-ticket electronics and
appliances, which typically rely on financing to attract shoppers, said Richard
Hastings, consumer strategist at Global Hunter Securities. With credit for
consumers drying up, Best Buy will likely resort to lowering prices, which will
hit profits, too.

"The pricing will be more competitive than any year in modern history," said
Brad Wilson, publisher of discount shopping site BradsDeals.com.

While 42-inch plasma TVs were selling for $699 at last year's post-Thanksgiving
events, Wilson thinks they'll dip below the $500 mark this year. Likewise, he
anticipates entry-level laptop computers selling for less than $300.

"People are spending less money overall, but they're paying more attention to
deals," Wilson said.

---

Change that hurts

Best Buy isn't living up to its name - at least in the stock market.

Latest worries:

* Falling same-store sales

* Grimmer earnings forecast

* Lehman hangover on credit line

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Worst Buy: Television sets at a Best Buy store. [AFP/Getty Images]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

SLIM CHANCE FOR TIMES - SULZBERGER PRAISES SHAREHOLDER, BUT STREET'S UNSURE

BYLINE: Keith J. Kelly

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 985 words


IN his annual "State of the Times" address to employees yesterday, New York
Times Chairman Arthur "Pinch" Sulzberger painted a rosy picture of the company
and its newest investor, Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim - but Wall Street still
seems skeptical.

Slim, ranked by Forbes as the second-richest person in the world, with a net
worth of $60 billion, on Tuesday disclosed that he had purchased 9.1 million
Class A shares, which gave him 6.4 percent of the company stock.

That makes him the third-largest stockholder who is not a member of the
controlling Ochs-Sulzberger family.

"He [Sulzberger] said that they were aware of it and felt it was a good thing,"
said one insider who was present at the meeting.

The question on everyone's mind is what Slim will do as a Times shareholder.

Wall Street seemed intrigued but not overly optimistic that Slim, who made his
fortune in the Latin American telecommunications industry, will force great
change on the struggling newspaper giant.

The stock closed yesterday at $15.23, up $1.27, or 9 percent. Yet the Times'
shares are still off 13 percent this year.

"We would not interpret his investment as a precursor to some form of
restructuring action by the company, given NYT's dual-class stock structure and
the Sulzberger family's control via their ownership of 90 percent of the
super-voting B shares," wrote Goldman Sachs analysts Peter Appert and Stephanie
Withers in a report yesterday.

"We like NYT's national franchise and long-term strategy to drive increasing
Internet revenues; we do not like the valuation of stock, particularly in light
of near-term earnings challenges. Key risks to our price target include
ad-market trends and a family-controlled board."

Added another Wall Street source, "I don't know what [Slim] adds to the party."

This source noted that two activist stockholders, Harbinger Capital and
Firebrand Partners, have already obtained seats on the board.

"I don't see him [Slim] accelerating the pace of change," said the analyst.
"We'll see what happens, but frankly, I don't get it."

At Sulzberger's "State of the Times" meeting, one source said, "It was the
typical rah-rah stuff. You'd think it was the early '90s."

One source asked Sulzberger if he would cut the company's dividend to
shareholders and divert money to the distressed Newspaper Guild-administered
health plan.

Sulzberger said he would not negotiate worker issues at the Town Hall style
meeting.

At another point, he declined to say whether any future cuts would include
managers.

"It depends on the manager," Sulzberger said.

Falling stars

Life & Style is said to have had one of its worst-selling issues ever last week
on the newsstand with a cover that featured Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes and Brad
& Angelina.

And that is translating into some major shakeups.

Donna Armstrong, who arrived as the new editor-in-chief only this summer, is
said to be packing it in. She is pregnant and the word is that she doesn't plan
to come back after her maternity leave is up. But a company  spokeswoman denied
it, saying: "She plans to have her child and come back."

No word on who her replacement might be.

Also, on Tuesday the magazine's West Coast Editor Lee Hannon was fired. Hannon
had been feuding with the home office ever since he felt they had bungled his
scoop that Britney Spears would perform at the VMA awards.

She did in fact make it onto the stage, but Life & Style had spiked his story.
Hannon, reached yesterday, declined to comment on any of the particulars, but
said his dismissal was a "complete and total shock."

Palin-drone

Us Weekly took a drubbing for its Sarah Palin cover last week, but it was one of
three celebrity magazines to turn its attention to the Republican Party's vice
presidential pick - and the more negative the headline, apparently the less
positive the newsstand sell.

People's Palin cover, with the relatively soft cover line, "Sarah Palin's Family
Drama" sold well above its usual weekly average of 1.45 million copies.

Sources estimate the sales  were in the 1.75 million range on newsstands.

Us Weekly, which generated a lot of nega  tive publicity for its cover, "Babies,
Lies & Scandals," had a so-so week. Depending on  who is doing the guessing,  it
sold between 840,000 and 945,000. The numbers are estimates, but either way it
did not do too badly on the newsstands. Its single-copy sales in the first half
of the year averaged 869,364 per week.

OK!, which had a dual cover with Palin on the back and Barack Obama on the
front, seemed to hit slightly above its first half average when it was selling
419,196 copies a week. Last week, it was estimated to have about 428,000 copies
sold on newsstands.

Hearst hurts

Hearst has had a rather dismal record of late when it comes to launching new
magazines. It has shut down Quick & Simple, Weekend and Shop Etc., and a joint
venture to do Lifetime magazine in conjunction with the television network also
flopped.

Now, Hearst President Cathie Black hopes to stop the skid with the latest entry
into the food category, which has been sizzling hot despite the industry
turmoil.

Earlier this week, the company acknowledged that it is going to  launch the Food
Net work Magazine in conjunction with the TV network.

Maile Carpenter, who jumped from Everyday with Rachael Ray in January and has
been secretly working on the project, is going to be the editor in chief of the
magazine.

Asked why they didn't come up with a more imaginative name she said, "We tested
several names but we decided to go with what everyone was going to call it
anyway, The Food Network Magazine." It is aiming upscale.

The first issue, which is being billed as a test, hits with a distribution of
300,000 copies on Oct. 14.

Food Network Magazine will still qualify as a launch by a major publisher in the
current weak climate. The second issue is slated for early 2009.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Black. -Slim. -Black.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

O'S RISE TO GLORY BEAT ALL THE ODDS; LIFE OF 'AUDACITY' AND FIERCE DRIVE

BYLINE: LEONARD GREENE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 3897 words


WINNER: Barack Obama and his wife Michelle, with daughters Sasha (second from

left) and Malia, at victory rally on Tuesday night. (Reuters)

LOVE STORY: Obama met fellow attorney Michelle Robinson shortly after both
graduated from Harvard Law School.

B.M.O.C.: The bright student got publicity in 1990 as first black editor of the
Harvard Law Review. (Boston Globe/Lane Turner/Landov)

YOUNG MAN IN A HURRY: Fresh from law school, the aspiring politician pauses
during a 1992 Chicago voter-registration drive.

MISSING DAD: Barack Obama Sr. in one of his few reunions with his son in the
years

since moving back to Kenya.  (INF)

MOM'S JOY: Baby Barack and his mom, Stanley Ann Dunham, who raised him alone in
Hawaii and Indonesia.

BOY'S LIFE: The sporting tot enjoyed an all-American upbringing with baseball
and tricycling.

HE LOVED NY: Obama at Central Park during his years as a Columbia student.

DC ROOKIE: Sen. Obama takes the oath of office from VP Dick Cheney in '05 with
daughters Malia (left) and Sasha and wife Michelle. (Jason Reed/Reuters/Corbis)

FIT TO LEAD: The beachgoer-in-chief shows off his lean bod during a family
vacation in Hawaii. (Chris Rust/INFphoto)

HOMEBODY: Swapping political chores for household ones, Obama gets quality time
with Malia and Sasha while doing the dishes at their home in Hyde Park, Ill., a
suburb of Chicago. (Callie Shell/Aurora Photos)

BUMPY RIDE: The Obamas perform their now-famous celebratory fistbump in June,
when he clinched the nomination. (Craig Lassio/EPA)

HOOP DREAMS: The one-time guard for his Hawaii highschool team plays pickup
basketball on the campaign trail with the University of North Carolina's Jack
Hooten. (AP)

JOEBAMA: The winning Dem team of Obama and Joe Biden make their debut on Aug. 23
in Illinois. (AP)

YOUTH VOTE: Obama gets wide-eyed as he deftly performs the campaign SOFA, SO
GOOD: The candidate takes a break from his exhausting schedule on the campaign
bus in New Hampshire. (Callie Shell/Aurora Photos)    SHE called it "the last
hurrah." The year was 2000, and Michelle Obama's husband, Barack, had just
gotten clobbered in his effort to wrest a congressional seat from a popular
Chicago incumbent.

Now he was talking about a new, more daunting challenge - a race for the US
Senate, to which only two blacks had been elected since Reconstruction.

Michelle had grown weary of politics. The young mother's hope was that Barack
Hussein Obama, an Illinois state senator, would take the practical route.

There was a president's job being dangled by a local foundation, not to mention
any number of opportunities Barack had in top-notch law firms.

But his political fire still burned. He wanted another shot. He wanted
redemption.

"It's impossible not to feel at some level as if you have been personally
repudiated by the entire community," Obama wrote about the loss in his second
book, "The Audacity of Hope."

"That you don't quite have what it takes, and that everywhere you go, the word
'loser' is flashing through people's minds."

He doesn't have to worry about that anymore.

Not only did he beat the odds to win that Senate seat. Barack Obama, the son of
a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas, rode a wave of change and
togetherness to forge one of the most important events in American history.

At 47, Obama will be the fifth-youngest president to take the oath of office. He
served just four years in the US Senate, and for much of the time before that
was an obscure lawmaker in the Illinois Legislature.

But the man who reached the pinnacle of politics on Tuesday with a decisive
victory over Republican nominee John McCain is no overnight sensation. Obama's
road to the White House was paved with every roadblock imaginable, the most
significant of which was the color of his skin.

Throw in the fact that he was from Hawaii, lived in Indonesia, was the product
of a biracial marriage, did drugs and has one of the most unusual names in
American politics, and the odds approach that of an instant-game lottery ticket.

Obama's improbable journey began Aug. 4, 1961, when he was born on the island of
Oahu less than two years after Hawaii was admitted to the Union and became
America's 50th state.

It was there that his mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, 18, met his father, Barack
Hussein Obama Sr., 25, at the University of Hawaii.

Stanley Ann had her own identity issues to overcome.

The young woman - whose family had moved from Kansas to Seattle before settling
in Hawaii - often had to explain that she got saddled with a man's name because
her father had wanted a boy.

Obama Sr. had traveled from Kenya to study in America. He settled on Hawaii
because of its reputation for racial tolerance. Indeed, with a population that
included Japanese, Filipinos, Samoans, Okinawans, Chinese and Portuguese, Hawaii
would seem to be the ideal place for a biracial child to grow up.

That appeared to be the plan after Ann became pregnant and the two, against the
objections of their families, hopped a plane to Maui and got married. Two years
later, they separated and were divorced.

Obama Sr. returned to Kenya, and Ann, a young white mother, was left alone in
Hawaii to raise her black son.

He would see his father only two more times in his life.

"He had left paradise," Obama wrote years later, "and nothing that my mother or
grandparents told me could obviate that single, unassailable fact. Their stories
didn't tell me why he had left. They couldn't describe what it might have been
like had he stayed."

SEVERAL years later, Ann re  married, to Lolo Soetoro,   and the newlyweds moved
to Soetoro's native Indonesia.

Young Barry, as he was then called, lived with his parents and his new baby
sister in the Asian archipelago.

When he turned 10, his mother sent him back to Honolulu to live with his
mother's parents and take advantage of the island's better schools.

Barry was one of the few blacks at school, but with his father on the other side
of the world, he had no personal reference for his racial identity. Although he
faced little outward hostility, his predicament often left him confused.

For a refuge, Barry turned to basketball, a passion he thought would carry him
through life.

"At least on the basketball court I could find a community of sorts, with an
inner life all its own," Obama later wrote. "It was there that I would make my
closest white friends, on turf where blackness couldn't be a disadvantage."

It was at Occidental College in Los Angeles that Barry turned back into Barack.
It was also where he took his first plunge into politics, speaking at an
anti-apartheid rally.

"I wanted to stay," Obama wrote about the experience, "to hear my voice bouncing
off the crowd and returning back to me in applause."

But at Occidental, Obama felt he had reached "a dead end," as he would later
tell Newsweek.

IN SEARCH of broader hori zons, and a more intellectu ally stimulating academic
environment, Obama moved another 3,000 miles to New York, and Columbia
University.

"Going to New York was really a significant break," Obama told Newsweek. "It's
when I left a lot of stuff behind."

By "stuff," Obama most likely meant drugs and alcohol, two substances he admits
to abusing in high school and during his early college years.

"Pot had helped, and booze; maybe a little blow when you could afford it," Obama
wrote. "Not smack, though."

Beyond that, Obama has said precious little about his past drug use, although
the topic generated a lot of debate years later when Obama was on the campaign
trail.

The biggest debate was about whether the revelation would help or hurt him. Some
said it would make him vulnerable to attacks. Others said it would make him
appear more human.

One of the strongest attacks come from, of all people, the founder of Black
Entertainment Television.

Robert Johnson, a top supporter of Hillary Rodham Clinton, made a reference to
Obama's admission while criticizing the candidate for not being more involved in
community issues.

Johnson apologized, and said his remarks were "made in haste in an attempt to be
funny."

By the time of his Columbia years, Obama had limited his vices to cigarettes, a
habit he maintained even at times on the campaign trail, even though he swore
off them at the beginning of the presidential race.

"I fell off the wagon a couple times during the course of it, and then was able
to get back on," he told NBC's Chris Matthews in May.

"But it is a struggle like everything else."

Obama earned a degree in political science from Columbia, and held a few jobs in
New York. There, he received a call that would affect him the rest of his life.
An aunt told him his father had been killed in an auto accident. The news
eventually took Obama on a journey in 1988 to Kenya, where he made a tearful
visit to his father's grave. In his memoir, Obama describes the joy of meeting
his father's family. Years later, he would return and receive a hero's welcome.

He wrote that the trip "helped unify my outward self with my inward self in an
important way."

Obama had received his academic education in two of America's largest cities,
New York and Los Angeles. For his political education, he would go to America's
third-largest city, Chicago.

AFTER four years in the Big Apple, playing basketball in Harlem and listening to
gospel music at the Abyssinian Baptist Church, he moved to the Windy City to
work as a community organizer.

With a beat-up Honda and a city map, Obama learned every street of the gritty
city's South Side, tutoring residents on their rights as tenants and helping
poor people train for jobs.

But Obama longed once more for academia's halls, and in 1988 found himself in
Harvard Law School.

Two years later, he achieved the first of his historic firsts: He was elected as
the first black president of the Harvard Law Review, the most prestigious law
journal in the nation.

The distinction generated enough news articles to fill a law library. The
publicity also drew interest from publishers interested in his take on race
relations. The result was "Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and
Inheritance."

OBAMA's Harvard years also led to another chapter in his life. After his first
year, Obama worked one summer at a corporate law firm in Chicago, where his
adviser was Michelle Robinson, another Harvard Law graduate.

After Michelle's initial reluctance the two began to date. But when their
relationship became serious, she had to give Barack a test.

She knew that Obama played basketball, as did her brother, Craig, a former
college player and the new basketball coach at Oregon State University.

She also knew that you can learn a lot about somebody by the way they play the
game, so she sent her brother on an investigative basketball mission.

"Our father used to say that you can tell a guy's personality on the basketball
court," Craig said on a video played at the Democratic National Convention.

"So when Barack was dating my sister, he and I played a few games. I went back
and told Michelle, 'This guy's terrific.' I was right."

After two years of dating, Barack and Michelle were married.

Although the future first lady would knock her husband a little on the campaign
trail - he doesn't pick up his dirty socks, and is not good at making up the bed
- she was effusive when talking about her love for her husband.

"The Barack Obama I know today is the same man I fell in love with 19 years
ago," Michelle Obama told delegates at the Democratic convention.

"He's the same man who drove me and our new baby daughter home from the hospital
10 years ago this summer, inching along at a snail's pace, peering anxiously at
us in the rearview mirror, feeling the whole weight of her future in his hands,
determined to give her everything he'd struggled so hard for himself, determined
to give her what he never had: the affirming embrace of a father's love."

But before that day came, Obama had to chart a course for his career.

After graduating from Harvard Law, he got many job offers from Wall Street and
corporate America.

BUT Obama had other ideas. He wanted to go in to politics. He wanted to change
the world.

After running a successful voter-registration drive, Obama joined a small,
politically connected boutique law firm that specialized in civil-rights
litigation. He also began teaching constitutional law at the University of
Chicago Law School, where he held court for 12 years.

Meanwhile, Obama's mother was suffering, in poor health. Doctors in 1995 had
misdiagnosed her cancer, and before Obama was able to return to Hawaii to see
her, she died there at the age of 53. She never got to see his groundbreaking
book published, or his political career take off.

Obama wasted no time employing the political lessons he was learning throughout
Chicago's neighborhoods.

He decided in 1996 to run for a state Senate seat when the incumbent, Alice
Palmer, made a bid for Congress, and anointed the new guy as her successor.

But Palmer's congressional bid fell short, and she decided to retain her seat.
Obama refused to go along. Instead, he challenged the validity of her petition
signatures and kept his mentor off the ballot. He won the seat unopposed.

The new senator's early years in Springfield, the state capital, were
unremarkable, especially considering that he was a Democrat surrounded by
Republicans. It also didn't help that the big-city dweller was 200 miles from
home.

He talked to his wife on the phone for almost an hour each night.

Obama spent his weekends in Chicago. Some weeks, he left late for the
legislative session to spend a little extra time with his family. He reasoned
that he would miss only a few meaningless votes, and have more time to spend
with his constituents.

It wasn't long before Obama felt himself pulled in both directions.

Meanwhile, friends and colleagues advised him to proceed cautiously: Too many
missed votes might come back to haunt him. Indeed, it did. Some critics started
calling him "Senator No-bama."

Almost as damaging as the missed votes were the votes Obama made without making
a commitment. He voted "present" 129 times in the Illinois Senate, an issue
often used against him during the presidential campaign.

"Obama ran for the state Legislature and he got elected, and nearly 130 times,
he couldn't make a decision," Rudy Giuliani said during the Republican National
Convention in September.

"He couldn't figure out whether to vote yes or no. It was too tough. He voted .
. . 'present.' "

The first thing Obama learned in Springfield was how to adapt. To make allies,
he joined several senators, lobbyists and political aides for bipartisan,
low-stakes poker games, complete with beer, pizza and cigar smoke.

The players say he frequently folded. It was yet another venue where he was
trying to fit in.

"Some members of both parties thought that Barack was longwinded and a tad aloof
and arrogant. Not me," state Sen. Kirk Dillard, a Republican and an Obama
friend, told The Associated Press.

"Barack can compromise without giving up his principles," said Dillard, who
supported McCain this year. "He's a realist and he knows when to fold his
cards."

OBAMA'S fortunes changed in   his second term, when Demo  crats gained control
of the state Senate.

He had several legislative successes. He sponsored measures that limited
lobbyists' gifts to politicians, helped expand health care to poor children,
cracked down on racial profiling, and introduced reforms for the death penalty
and the interrogation of murder suspects.

Ever ambitious, and in need of a bigger stage, Obama in 2000 made his own
congressional bid, challenging a popular incumbent, Bobby Rush, a former Black
Panther.

Rush looked vulnerable following an unsuccessful bid to become Chicago's mayor.
After Obama was tagged by some Rush supporters as not being "black enough" for
the largely African-American district, Rush trounced the challenger, winning 61
percent of the vote.

Rush, an Obama supporter now, said he took the challenge personally.

Obama's supporters began wondering about his political future. The media raised
the question more succinctly. "Is Obama dead?" one Chicago commentator asked on
radio.

Although the defeat left Obama humbled, questions about his blackness made his
blood boil.

"I know what it's like to have people tell me I can't do something because of my
color," Obama would write in his next book, "The Audacity of Hope."

"And I know the bitter swill of swallowed-back anger."

He also knew the value of persistence. Two years later, the state senator was
back on the political horse, plotting his next course, a 2004 race for the US
Senate. After winning a crowded primary, Obama found himself once again on the
national scene.

His star-powered fate was sealed when Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry
tapped him to deliver the keynote speech at the 2004 convention in Boston.

"I stand here today, grateful for the diversity of my heritage, aware that my
parents' dreams live on in my precious daughters," he told the delegates.

"I stand here knowing that my story is part of the larger American story, that I
owe a debt to all of those who came before me, and that, in no other country on
earth, is my story even possible."

Kerry was the nominee, but Obama stole the show. After winning a seat in the US
Senate, it wasn't long before Obama's name and the White House were being
mentioned in the same sentence.

AFTER only two years in the Senate, Obama had the nerve - the audacity of hope -
to dream once again.

On Feb. 10, 2007, in front of the Old State Capitol building in Springfield,
Ill., where in 1858 Abraham Lincoln delivered his "House Divided" speech, Obama
announced his candidacy for president.

By campaigning against the war in Iraq and emphasizing the themes of energy
independence and universal health care, Obama outlasted most of the crowded
Democratic field.

His phenomenal fund-raising efforts also put him ahead of most of the pack, as
did his stunning leadoff victory in the Iowa caucuses.

But Obama soon found himself up against the biggest force between him and the
Democratic nomination - Hillary Rodham Clinton.

The New York senator and former first lady was on a history-making journey of
her own, inspiring women across the land.

As front-runner, she wasn't about to give the newcomer any ground. Obama quickly
found himself on the defensive and fighting an uphill battle.

There were his ties to Tony Rezko, a former Obama fund-raiser who was convicted
this year of trying to extort millions of dollars in payoffs and campaign cash
from companies doing business with the state of Illinois.

There was Clinton's "3 a.m. phone call" ad, making light of Obama's experience.

But nothing threatened the Obama campaign like the controversy over his Chicago
pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright.

Obama had done pretty well up until that point to keep race from polarizing the
election. But Wright, the retired senior pastor of Trinity United Church of
Christ, who married the Obamas and had ministered to them for nearly 20 years,
could not be ignored.

Not with statements like "God damn America" and accusations that the government
created the AIDS virus.

Tainted by his association with Wright, Obama denounced the speeches, but not
the speaker. In a speech about race entitled "A More Perfect Union," Obama
addressed the climate that gave context to Wright's remarks.

Among the subjects Obama touched upon were anger, resentment, privilege and
fear. He urged Americans to move beyond the nation's "racial stalemate" and
address areas of common concern. "The remarks that have caused this recent
firestorm weren't simply controversial," Obama said in the speech that he
delivered in Philadelphia against the backdrop of the Liberty Bell.

"They weren't simply a religious leader's effort to speak out against perceived
injustice. Instead, they expressed a profoundly distorted view of this country -
a view that sees white racism as endemic, and that elevates what is wrong with
America above all that we know is right with America."

But when Wright went off the deep end a month later with a new round of
controversial remarks, Obama cut ties with the church and ended his relationship
with the pastor.

"We don't want to have to answer for everything that's stated in the church,"
Obama said. "We also don't want the church subjected to the scrutiny that a
presidential campaign legitimately undergoes."

Obama weathered all the storms, even dismissing Clinton with a nod to his
hip-hop following when he answered the attacks by symbolically brushing the dirt
off his shoulders.

"I understand it," Obama told a Raleigh, NC, crowd in April, a day after
debating Clinton. "When you're running for the presidency, then you've got to
expect it. You've just got to, kinda let it . . ."

Then he brushed his hand across his right shoulder, then brushed his hand across
his left shoulder, and the crowd went wild. "That's what you've got to do."

WITHIN weeks, Obama had secured enough delegates to claim the Democratic
nomination.

The only question that remained was who would run beside him. Would he tap his
top rival and form the ultimate Dream Ticket? The answer was no.

Obama used a 2 a.m. text message to announce on Aug. 23 that he had selected
Sen. Joe Biden of Delaware to be his running mate.

At the convention in Denver, Obama accepted his party's nomination. The Biden
selection angered many Clinton supporters who believed her 18 million
glass-ceiling-shattering primary votes earned her a spot on the ticket.

McCain tried to appeal to them by nominating a woman, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin,
as his running mate. But her evasive manner and folksy charm - lampooned on
"Saturday Night Live" - were not enough to offset questions about her
experience, even though she was more popular on parts of the campaign trail than
the man at the top of the Republican ticket.

For weeks, the race remained a statistical dead heat. Then in September, the
bottom fell out of the nation's financial system, and Obama - who continued to
link McCain with the policies of President Bush - began to pull ahead.

While Republicans accused Obama of "palling around" with former Weather
Underground terrorist Bill Ayers, Obama stayed on point. Obama noted that a
McCain adviser said that if the Republican continued to talk about the economy,
he would lose. "That's why I'm going to keep talking about the economy," Obama
said.

He had one more obstacle to overcome. Late Sunday, two days before Election Day,
his beloved grandmother, Madelyn Payne Dunham, 86, died of cancer. "She's been
the rock of my family," Obama told CBS last month before briefly suspending his
campaign to visit her one last time. "She worked very hard all of her life, and
she made a lot of sacrifices on my behalf."

And she would miss his greatest accomplishment of all.

"If there is anyone out there who still doubts that America is a place where all
things are possible, who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in
our time, who still questions the power of our democracy, tonight is your
answer," Obama said two days after she died.

It was then, on Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2008, on a clear, bright, sunny day, that the
people of the United States of America had elected the nation's first black
president. His name is Barack Obama.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday

O & MAC MAKE NICE

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 222 words


President-elect Barack Obama and John McCain buried the hatchet yesterday,
vowing to work together to reform Washington and fix the battered economy,
following their first meeting since the election.

The two smiled for the cameras before heading behind closed doors at Obama's
presidential transition headquarters in Chicago.

Afterward, they issued a sunny joint statement.

"At this defining moment in history, we believe that Americans of all parties
want and need their leaders to come together and change the bad habits of
Washington so that we can solve the common and urgent challenges of our time,"
Obama and McCain said.

The communique said they had a "productive conversation" about launching a "new
era of reform" to "restore trust in government" by attacking government waste
and ending bitter partisanship.

"We hope to work together in the days and months ahead on critical challenges
like solving our financial crisis, creating a new energy economy, and protecting
our nation's security."

Among the specific hot-button issues that the two largely agree on are climate
change, immigration reform and slashing pork-barrel spending.

Before the meeting, Obama personally thanked the Arizona senator "for the
outstanding service he's already rendered."

McCain, asked if he would be willing to help Obama, replied, "Obviously."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LET BYGONES BE BYGONES: John McCain and Barack Obama are all smiles at
their first post-election meeting in Chicago yesterday.  [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            December 29, 2008 Monday

BREAK FOR MAYOR'S STRONGHOLDS

BYLINE: TOM NAMAKO Transit Reporter

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 247 words


Two of Mayor Bloomberg's crucial voting bases got some transit-related relief
this month, just as his controversial campaign for a third term heats up.

The city agreed to change the headache-causing alternate-side parking rules for
Riverdale residents, cutting the number of street-sweeping days in half. And
Staten Island express-bus riders found out that a possible $2.50 fare hike will
be, at most, $1.25, compliments of the mayor.

Both Riverdale and Staten Island heavily favored Bloomberg in his contentious
2005 race against Fernando Ferrer.

"He needs to be sure people aren't angry at city government in this current
economic climate with an election upcoming," said Susan Lerner, executive
director of Common Cause, New York. "He doesn't want to tick people off."

In 2005, Bloomberg obliterated his opponent on Staten Island with more than
60,000 of about 90,000 ballots going his way.

Riverdale and its nearby neighborhoods, on the other hand, were some of the only
Bronx areas where Bloomberg was able to eke out a win in the same election.

Anthony Cassino, the former chairman of Community Board 8 representing
Riverdale, said the board submitted its alternate-side parking proposal to the
city about a year ago and before talk of Bloomberg's third run.

The parking change is also being considered for Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene
and Boerum Hill, the city Department of Sanitation said. Those Brooklyn
neighborhoods also favored Bloomberg in the past election.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 1, 2008 Tuesday

FUGGEDABOUTIT; NON-PREDICTIONS FOR '08

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 619 words


IT'S that time again - when everyone makes predictions. Here are some that you
can be sure won't come true in 2008:

* The US intelligence community will accurately predict . . . something.

* Despite another dismal season for the Knicks, New Yorkers will insist that
Isiah Thomas be given a 30-year contract to remain coach.

* Hillary Clinton will make her position on Iraq absolutely clear.

* Hillary Clinton will make her position on anything absolutely clear.

* Gov. Spitzer will 'fess up about his role in his office's Dirty Tricks
campaign to take down Senate Majority Leader Joe Bruno.

* While in prison, Atlanta Falcon quarterback Michael Vick will earn a degree in
veterinary medicine.

* Iran will become a peaceful, freedom-loving democracy - and stand as a model
for all nations.

* The New York Civil Liberties Union, arguing that the most important civil
liberty is the right to live, will praise the NYPD for producing rec- ord-low
murder rates.

* Britney Spears will win an award for Parent of the Year.

* Her 16-year-old sister, Jamie Lynn, will be runner-up.

* Their mom will win for Parent of the Century.

* Americans will adjust their thermostats 2 degrees and end the nation's
dependence on foreign oil once and for all.

* Mayor Mike, whose mom would love him to run for president, will eventually
think of a convincing rationale to do so.

* As a result of insufficient use, the Internet will wither and vanish. (Al Gore
will claim credit.)

* Bill Clinton will campaign on behalf of his wife's bid to become president.

* Given the wild popularity of his plan to give drivers' licenses to illegal
aliens, Spitzer will insist that they also be allowed to carry firearms.

* US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will lead a successful campaign to end
presidential term limits and keep George Bush in office for another term.

* MoveOn.org will apologize for the ad it ran calling Gen. David Petraeus (who's
led the successful surge in Iraq) "Gen. Betray Us."

* This time, Palestin- ians will really, really, really, really mean it when
they say they want peace with Israel - and strike a meaningful deal to end the
Arab-Israeli conflict. (True, I've made this prediction before. But I've been
right, haven't I?)

* Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid will switch over to America's side in the
War on Terror.

* The New York Times won't go that far, but it will, at least, stop supporting
the terrorists.

* At a presidential debate with Hillary Clinton, Rudy Giuliani will show up - in
drag.

* After winning the election, Giuliani will tap Bernie Kerik to be secretary of
the Treasury.

* New York's City Council will run out of things to ban - and simply ban . . .
itself.

* France will choose a new national pastime - other than riots, that is.

* The MTA will add several new subway and bus lines, improve equipment, beautify
stations, raise worker salaries and expand service - all while drastically
cutting fares.

* Canada will become a superpower, eh?

* New York cabbies will quit griping about GPS and credit-card machines in their
taxis - and just drive already.

* Major League Baseball players will rely solely on their natural skills and
hard work to improve their game.

* Acknowledging that scores of respectable scientists discount fears of climate
change, Gore will admit that he just made up the whole idea about global warming
as a joke.

* In a fair and free election, voters will oust Vladimir Putin from Russian
politics.

* City health czar Tom Frieden will become the head of the NYCLU, preaching
everyone's need to "live and let live" - and offering free doughnuts and
cigarettes to his supporters.

* Pundits will stop making dumb predictions.

Happy New Year!

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vick: Jailbird will use time to earn veterinary degree.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           January 2, 2008 Wednesday

THE FACTS ABOUT GLOBAL WARMING

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 545 words


This series will look at global warming. What will happen to plants and animals,
to cities and beaches? What will happen to humans?

HOW can governments and businesses help? How can you help? You will learn that
the kind of world you live in depends very much on the actions you take.

"Every action has an equal and opposite reaction," says a law of physics.
"Everything is connected to everything else," says a law of ecology. Both are
true. A simple act such as driving a car, or turning on a light switch, has
global repercussions that touch dolphins in the ocean, farmers in the Ukraine,
penguins in Antarctica, redwood trees in California, tourists on the Florida
coast and you.

Your actions have reactions. Your actions are connected to events that may
affect our entire planet. To get the most from this series, work in small groups
to share ideas and do the activities.

IT'S IN YOUR HANDS

Almost every science organization studying the Earth agrees. The planet is
heating up. Its atmosphere is warming. The scientists don't all agree about
exactly how much it is warming or about how much time there is to stop the
damage. But, there is time. People can still turn things around and make a
difference.

Let's test what you already know about global warming and the Earth's
atmosphere. Work alone if you like, or share what you think in groups.

1. The Earth's atmosphere is composed of several gases, including oxygen,
nitrogen, and carbon dioxide. What percentage of the air you breathe is carbon
dioxide?

a: 30% b: 3% c: 0.3% d: 0.03%

2. What is the average temperature of the Earth's surface, from north to south
pole, throughout the year?

a: 0°F b: 35°F c: 60°F d: 72°F

3.Without the greenhouse effect, what would be the annual average temperature of
the Earth's surface?

a: -30°F b: 0°F c: 10°F d: 35°F

4. Since 1890, what has happened to the Earth's average temperature?

a: Dropped one degree b: Increased one degree c: Remained constant d: Increased
four degrees

5. The hole in the ozone layer is the chief cause of global warming.

a: True b: False 6. In the space provided, write a definition of the following
terms:

Global warming: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Greenhouse effect: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

What are the causes of global warming? And what are the possible effects?
Working alone or in groups, make a list of causes and effects. Save this list of
causes and effects. We will come back to it.

For more information about the Classroom Extra program, contact Customer Service
at 1-212-801-0100. Today's lesson can be found at nypost.com. Click on the
"More" pull down menu.

ANSWERS: 1.d, 2.c, 3.b, 4.b, 5.b

---

New York Post activities

* WEATHER is important to newspapers because it affects everyone-and everyone
has an interest in it. Scan the newspaper for several days and keep a log of
stories or photographs whose subject is weather. Are the stories newsworthy
because of short-term conditions or longterm conditions?

* ANALYZE the weather stories for trends. How many are connected to global
warming in some way? Be alert to connections that may not be obvious.

* HOW do the weather conditions reported in the stories affect ecology or the
environment in the shortterm? How about long-term?

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 25, 2008 Friday

CHANGE OF CLOTHES - HILFIGER PUTS IPO PLAN FOR EUROPE ON HOLD

BYLINE: JAMES COVERT and ZACHERY KOUWE

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 348 words


Preppy icon Tommy Hilfiger has shelved its plans for an initial public offering
in Europe.

Turmoil in the global markets - along with rising worries about consumer
spending worldwide, even among the super-rich - are now casting doubt on other
going-public plans this year by highbrow clothing labels like Prada and
Salvatore Ferragamo.

Apax Partners, the British-based private equity firm that owns Hilfger, said
"investor feedback has been positive" on its plans to launch Hilfiger on the
Amsterdam-based Euronext exchange. But management and investors decided to
postpone an IPO "until such time that market conditions have stabilized."

Apax, which recently cut an exclusive deal with Macy's to distribute Tommy
Hilfiger clothes in the US, aims to focus its growth plans on Europe, where the
all-American brand has a more upscale image. Having bought Hilfiger for $1.6
billion in 2005, Apax had been hoping to net at least $3 billion with an IPO.

Hilfiger's retreat is the latest in more than a dozen cancelled IPOs this month,
according to Deal- ogic. Wall Street had seen nine deals worth $1.9 billion in
January 2007. But so far this year, just one offering - by Williams Pipeline for
$325 million - has hit the market, according to Thomson Financial.

"You never want to sell things in a down market," said Thomson Financial's Rich
Peterson.

Hilfiger's withdrawal doesn't bode well for Prada or Ferragamo, both of which
were slated for IPOs this year in Milan.

While luxury goods had proven more resilient amid last year's shopping malaise,
recent weakness at brands like Tiffany and Coach have spurred worries that
well-heeled shoppers are now reining in spending.

Prada has already shelved an IPO plan once before - after the terrorist attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001.

----

Hanging it up

Tommy Hilfiger's owners put its European IPO on hold, citing uncertain business
conditions.

Tommy timeline

1984 First signature collection is launched.

1992 Company goes public.

1994 First outlet & specialty stores open.

2005 Apax buys Tommy for $1.6B.

Yesterday Apax postpones European IPO.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Model in a Tommy fashion show. -Designer Tommy Hilfiger. [Photos:
WireImage.com (2)]  -Model in a Tommy fashion show.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            February 11, 2008 Monday

ELIOT'S ENFORCER - STRONG-ARMING INSURERS ON WTC CLAIMS

BYLINE: Adam Brodsky

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 963 words


GOV. Spitzer says he wants to make nice to financial firms - brokers, insurers,
investment banks. The very companies he targeted with a vengeance as attorney
general.

Does he mean it? Read on.

Last month, Spitzer chaired the first meeting of an obscure panel he set up to
lighten the regulatory load on these businesses. His avowed goal: "keeping New
York the financial capital of the world."

Yet who'd he tap to head the panel? One of the purported brains behind many of
his attacks as AG on the financial industry, now-State Insurance Superintendent
Eric Dinallo.

Dinallo is often credited with "rediscovering" the Martin Act - a (until then)
little-used 1921 law that gives the AG considerable regulatory and prosecutorial
muscle over financial firms. It was reportedly Dinallo's idea for Spitzer to
probe "abuses by investment advisers."

Dinallo and Spitzer, of course, have new goals now that they're no longer
enforcement agents. Plus, Spitzer is a Big Government Big Spender, addicted to
tax revenues from industries like finance. So you'd think the last thing they'd
want to do is scare away these firms with probes and burdensome regulation.

But at least some in the industry see them as sticking to their old ways.

Those impressions come from some of the lawyers for World Trade Center insurers
who worked with Dinallo to resolve remaining 9/11 claims.

The biggest sticking point in those claims - whether the attacks counted as one
"occurrence" or two - had already been resolved. But in 2006, when then-Gov.
Pataki and other officials struck a new financial deal for WTC reconstruction,
they neglected to clear it with the insurers, who ultimately were to provide
most of the cash.

Oops. The insurers raised new concerns - and fears of more delays at Ground
Zero. Pols raced to bash them preemptively. "These insurance companies," Mayor
Mike warned, will "pay up one way or another, whether they do it because it's
right, or they do it because they have to."

Enter Spitzer-Dinallo.

Within months of taking office, the new governor suddenly announced that all
loose ends with insurers had been tied off. Nearly six years after 9/11,
rebuilding would proceed.

Spitzer was hailed for persuading the firms to do what was right; behind the
headlines, Insurance Superintendent Dinallo was the man who had made it all
happen.

But a court transcript portrays the Spitzer-Dinallo powers of persuasion in a
somewhat different light.

"The insurers right now are bearing the brunt of the pressure from Mr. Dinallo,"
Harvey Kurzweil, a lawyer for one of the firms, complains to US District Judge
Harold Baer. "I don't care to speculate as to why that is the case, but it is
the case."

Baer appears perplexed by Dinallo: "There must be some motivation that I am
missing," Baer says.

Kurzweil says Dinallo "hammered us . . . about the head and shoulders with a
sledgehammer" in an attempt to resolve the issue in favor of WTC leaseholder
Larry Silverstein.

Another lawyer, John Massopust, also hints vaguely about Dinallo's threats; a
third, Jane Stevens, spells it out point-blank: The superintendent, she says,
threatened to "launch an investigation into everyone's claim practices."

In other words, if the insurers didn't go along, Spitzer's muscle man could
virtually shut them down by drowning them in probes, an exec from one firm says.
Worse, he was threatening to "throw us in jail" - because if you probe every
claim, eventually you might find something on which to hang a criminal charge.

Dinallo denies that he threatened to jail anyone or to paralyze their
operations, noting that he lacks "criminal-prosecution authority."

He also insists that he was "even-handed" in applying pressure. And he makes no
apologies for his toughness: "I thought the city and state needed to close the
book" on WTC insurance claims.

Dinallo doesn't deny threatening to probe "everyone's claim practices." Rather,
he suggests that it would have been appropriate for him to do so, if he found
the insurers acted "unreasonably."

A lawyer for Silverstein, Marc Wolinsky, backed that, noting that Silverstein's
folks complained about the insurers' behavior and that Dinallo would have been
obligated to investigate to establish a "pattern" of bad-faith claims-handling.

Still, if allegations of threats by Spitzer or an aide sound familiar, they
should: The gov's folks have a long record of such accusations.

Kurzweil also hints about why firms didn't fight back: Dinallo is the state's
"primary regulator," he says. "We are certainly not anxious to antagonize him.
We will be living with him for the next four years."

Nor has fear of the superintendent vanished now that the case has been resolved.
Apparently, some insurers are still battling with the Port Authority over other
claims - amounting to some $1.5 billion - and at least one of them wonders
whether Dinallo will resort to his old tricks.

And what do corporate types think of New York's "regulatory environment"? Well,
few will criticize Spitzer publicly. But privately, one calls New York "Uganda"
- suggesting a climate where playing ball with the gov comes ahead of the rule
of law.

Maybe Dinallo, Spitzer and the rest will change, will warm to these firms, on
whose revenue they depend so much to fund their $124 billion budget.

But a recent report by The Post's Fredric U. Dicker is hardly encouraging: Just
last month, Spitzer and an aide "privately threatened" the Business Council,
Dicker says, after it crossed him. A source told Dicker that Spitzer had an
explosive phone conversation with Business Council President Kenneth Adams.

Such reports, again, are hard to confirm on the record. But if they're true,
Spitzer sure has a funny way of cozying up to folks whose money he is going to
need.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dinallo: A not so former prosecutor?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday

-HARLEM CHEERS RISE OF LITTLE DAVID (M, S) -PROUD COMMUNITY HAILS A SON OF
HARLEM (LCF)

BYLINE: PETER COX and CAROLYN SALAZAR

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 371 words


Harlem cheered the rise of one of its own yesterday, with residents throughout
the famed neighborhood saying native son Lt. Gov. David Paterson is ready for
the top job.

"I'm sure he'll be a great governor," said Carin Ford, 45.

"He's very intelligent. He's done well in every position he's been in. The
important thing is whether he can do the job, but it's great to know he's from
Harlem."

She added, "It's unfortunate that he came in [under] these circumstances, but
I'm sure this will be a great opportunity for him."

Anthony Bowman, 55, said, "I think he's prepared. We would have been more proud
if he didn't get it the way that he did, but it's always good when a
neighborhood person does good. It's just sad that he had to become governor like
this."

H. Kenneth Woods, CEO of the famed Sylvia's soul-food restaurant, said, "He is
like our hero, he's someone we've been very proud of. He's one of our bright
shining stars. He's intelligent, he has a great sense of humor, and he's someone
that everyone can connect with."

Social worker Ann Hamm said, "I'm thrilled. He's proven to be a good and
independent lieutenant governor and hopefully will do a better job in Albany
than Spitzer in terms of adapting to the climate there and being able to get
along with other people.

"I think he'll do well because he knows how to reach out to people."

Ralph Miller, 42, a business school student, said of Paterson: "I've known him
for 22 years and I'm behind him 100 percent. He would lead the state well. He's
an upright person. He'll serve without any of the tricks you see from other
politicians."

Bill Williams, a 70-year-old musician, said, "He's been a good politician for a
number of years, and he's a great guy. It will be a good thing for New York."

Williams also had some advice for the incoming governor.

"He'll be good as long as he stays away from those ladies. Change happens in
funny ways."

King Pearson, a 65-year-old retired taxi driver, said Paterson's "got what it
takes for the job," but said his Harlem roots have nothing to do with why.

"He could be from anyplace - all that matters is that he's fair to the people,"
Pearson said. "He'll be good for all the people, not just the black community."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             March 18, 2008 Tuesday

JIM'S FINALLY COMING TO HIS SENSES

BYLINE: Peter Vecsey

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 787 words


AS best as I can tell without anybody of consequence confirming or denying - or,
for that matter, returning a phone call/e-mail - there's sweeping validity to a
rival tabloid's report that James Dolan met recently with Donnie Walsh in
Indianapolis to discuss taking over the Knicks as soon as the season is over.

Who knows whether the Pacers' CEO was offered the job? Meeting with Walsh may
have been Dolan's first interview with a select few of the NBA's relevant
leaders, or he may have been last.

Who knows, Nets' adviser Kiki Vandeweghe may have been first, as has been
reported. Maybe Dolan flew out to Phoenix to see Jerry Colangelo. Or out to L.A.
to visit with Jerry West. Or to Portland to convene with Steve Patterson. Or to
Cleveland to get to know Wayne Embry.

Who knows, maybe they're next in line in no special order?

One way or the other, the rapturous news is that Dolan is trying to do something
exceedingly constructive for a change to halt the franchise's free fall to the
bottom of the standings and to reverse the disorganization's contaminated
climate.

After almost 41/2 harrowing seasons of Isiah Thomas (two as coach) there's every
indication to suggest Knick fans are on the verge of realizing their watery
dream; Thomas' destructive days as president and coach are fast concluding - and
that also goes for Stephon Marbury, Zach Randolph, Jerome James, Jarred Jeffries
and on and on.

If it's not Walsh who replaces Thomas in the front office it's guaranteed to be
a significant other.

Yet the native New Yorker - youngest to win the MVP, as a 16-year-old senior at
Fordham Prep, in the prestigious Journal-American All-Star Game at the Garden -
makes so much sense on so many levels.

In 23 years with the Pacers, the 66-year-old has become one of the league's most
respected, honorable and successful executives. His lone letdowns are not
winning a championship (lost to the Lakers in the 2000 Finals) and not undoing
the madness caused by the Malice at the Palace.

Two years ago, in a set arrangement, full authority to make personnel decisions
and hire coaches was transferred to team president Larry Bird. Walsh was
supposed to retire after last season, but stayed on at the request of Larry
Legend.

That won't happen again. From talking to Walsh 10 days ago, it was clear he felt
his presence stunted Bird's managerial growth. He needed to give him space.

At the time Walsh told me he'd all but ruled out retirement, something he had
seriously considered for some time. Stayed home one weekend recently to mow the
lawn and nearly died from the fresh air.

So, what do we have here? I can't see Walsh staying on in Indy.

I'm also convinced Walsh won't retire at season's end - though I know for sure
Judy, his childhood sweetheart and wife of roughly 45 years, is not in favor of
uprooting and returning to New York.

In other words, there are plenty of unasked and unanswered questions on tap.

Even so, intuition tells me Walsh will accept the Knick challenge should Dolan
follow through on his suddenly recovered senses.

Who would've thought reason would prevail?

*

Around midnight Sunday my cell phone identified the caller as Geraldine Alston
who lives in a "Hamptons type" community 30 miles outside Houston. Her loving
son, the starting point guard for a Rockets team that's won 22 straight games,
lives nearby on the golf course.

"My husband can't believe I'm calling you at this time, but I'm from New York
and I brought my chutzpah with me."

This wasn't our first phone communication. Over the years we've talked numerous
times, usually when Rafer was experiencing a problem or two. This was not an
appeal for help or advice. At the same time, it was a distress call.

"Your reaching out to me this late at night wouldn't have anything to do with
Rafer scoring 31 points against the Lakers on the day I wrote he wasn't among
the NBA's top playmakers?" I guessed, taking a wild stab.

For those not in the know, I had reacted to Jeff Van Gundy's silly statement the
previous week on ABC in which he branded Alston second only to Chris Paul.

Apparently the adaptable analyst (after a week of watching game film and
consulting with scouts throughout the league) meant to say Rafer was playing
better during Houston's demolition derby than any point guard other than Paul,
something he qualified during Sunday's telecast.

"My husband and I just now got to read your column on line when we came home,"
Geraldine allowed. "While I don't agree with your assessment, I do respect your
right to voice an opinion.

"Having said that, do me a favor; please e-mail your picture. We're making a
print out of the column and we'd like to burn it and your picture together in
effigy."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHANGING OF THE GARD-EN: There's reason to believe the disastrous Knick
reign of Isiah Thomas (right) is about to end, as owner James Dolan appears
serious, finally, about replacing him. Pacer exec Donnie Walsh (left, with
Thomas in the Indy days together) is a likely candidate.   [AP]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 15, 2008 Tuesday

EARNINGS SEASON IS HERE, PUT ON YOUR SEAT BELT

BYLINE: John Crudele

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 942 words


FASTEN your seat belts and keep any sharp objects away from your body for the
next few days. This is the first full-fledged week of corporate earnings
reports.

Profits (where there are any) will be dismal, there's no doubt about that.

But the bigger problem for the stock market right now could be the fact that
Wall Street analysts haven't come to their senses yet about how miserable the
rest of the year will be.

Last Friday General Electric kicked off the festivities with a fireworks display
- much lower earnings than the company had recently led Wall Street to believe
it would produce.

That ignited a big sell-off in the stock market that could portend more big
bangs in the future.

Google, Merrill Lynch and nine of the 30 components of the Dow Jones industrial
index are scheduled to report results between now and Friday.

Today alone Intel and Johnson & Johnson, both Dow stocks, will have a chance to
astonish or shock investors.

Besides Merrill, the biggest dangers this week will be JPMorgan Chase's profit
report tomorrow and a likely Citigroup debacle on Friday.

All told, the financial sector of the Standard & Poor's 500 index - of which 40
percent will announce earnings this week - is expected to report an astonishing
64-percent decline in earnings the first three months of the year.

JPMorgan's profit is seen coming in at 66 cents a share; Citigroup at a loss of
95 cents and Merrill at a $1.90 deficit. Ouch!

But the numbers are only slightly better for the rest of the stock market.

Overall corporate profits are expected to decline 14.1 percent. That compares
with a 5.7 percent gain in profits that Wall Street analysts were predicting
just three months ago.

But the real trouble could be with this next number: analysts still believe that
second-quarter profits for the 500 companies in the S&P index will be down only
3.2 percent. They had been predicting a gain of 4.7 percent for the current
quarter just a few months ago.

There's no indication that the economy in the second quarter of 2008 will be any
better than it was in the first three months of the year.

In fact, there's more reason to believe that business conditions have
deteriorated, with consumers pulling back, companies reducing jobs and stubborn
inflation causing costs to rise for businesses and consumers alike.

I wish it wasn't so, but things just aren't looking better.

And unless consumers really do decide to spend the $600 rebates they will start
getting from Washington next month (more below), the economy isn't likely to get
even a temporary lift.

So why hasn't this horrible economic reality dawned on the Wall Street folks who
follow companies?

Why are analysts still predicting a more modest 3.2 percent drop in earnings?

The reason: because analysts are typically still optimistic at this time of
year.

And, like anyone else who likes to be right, they are reluctant to change their
positions - until the error of their predictions becomes painfully obvious.

"Analysts haven't touched the second quarter yet," says a source at First Call,
which monitors the universe of earnings estimates.

But they will have to.

And the inevitable downgrade of analysts' outlooks will probably come moments
after corporations report their first-quarter earnings and confess their deepest
doubts about the strength of the economy.

This isn't a good time for companies to embellish their outlooks.

In fact, there's some logic in chief executives airing all their problems in the
first quarter report because their bad news might get lost in everyone else's
bad news.

So don't expect anyone to hold back.

The stock market typically sells at a price-to-earnings ratio of 11-to-1 - which
means that prices for the S&P 500 historically average 11 times the cumulative
per-share profits.

But the index is already at an elevated 16.33 p/e, based on first-quarter
profits, and will still be above the historical average at 13.15 p/e if analysts
are correct in their profit estimates for the second quarter.

No matter how you look at it, stock prices are high.

One of three things could happen: corporate profits could rise or stocks could
fall to make the p/e ratios more normal, or the ratios could remain out of
whack.

Commentators are already marveling at how well the stock market has been doing
in the face of repeated blows of bad news.

Yesterday, for instance, Wachovia - a major bank - reported a big loss, cut its
dividend and announced the desperate sale of discounted shares to raise capital.

Its stock took a big hit.

Yet the stock market held up pretty well. Why?

Remember, this is one of those options expiration weeks where stock prices tend
to do better.

And also keep in mind that someone very courageous and committed seems to be
rescuing the stock market in suspicious overnight operations.

For example, a big loss in the European markets didn't carry over into US
trading yesterday.

Let's hope the airbags deploy if this ride ever ends.

*

It's about one month until Americans get their special government tax rebate
aimed at stimulating the economy. What are people going to do with the
breezefall?

(Definition: a breezefall is good fortune that's not quite as powerful as a
windfall.)

Well, taxpayers overwhelmingly say they aren't going to spend the regular
refunds they get from their taxes.

So that probably isn't a good sign on the special $600 stimulus rebates.

According to TD Ameritrade, its survey of 2,338 taxpayers shows a whopping 85
percent will invest their regular refunds, save it or pay off debts.

Who knows, maybe we'll spend the next economic stimulus rebate, or the one after
that.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday

NY LOSING BIG BIZ AS TAXES SOAR

BYLINE: MELISSA KLEIN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 387 words


New York state's skyrocketing business taxes are taking a toll on its corporate
dominance.

For the third time, New York has been trumped as the home to the most Fortune
500 companies.

Adding insult to injury, it was unseated by Texas, which can now boast of having
fostered the country's most profitable companies, a Fortune list released last
week shows.

California topped us in 2003, and Texas beat us by one firm in 2005.

"It doesn't take a corporate CEO to understand that with low business taxes and
a zero-percent tax on individual income, Texas is a much more attractive place
to locate than New York," said Scott Hodge, president of the Tax Foundation.

New York's tax system ranked third to last in the nation in the 2008 Business
Tax Climate Index put out by the Washington, DC-based foundation.

And state legislators have just worsened the situation. New York's newly adopted
state budget calls for increasing the tax base for certain corporations, taxing
the first $10 million in capital rather than just the first $1 million.

The change is expected to particularly impact banks and financial-service firms
and bring in an additional $102 million in the current fiscal year.

Texas has no personal-income tax - compared to New York's 6.5 percent - and
rather than a corporate-income tax, which tops 17 percent in New York City, it
has a gentler franchise tax, said E.J. McMahon, director of the Manhattan
Institute's Empire Center for New York State Policy.

"The Fortune 500 companies that are based in New York City, or that have offices
in New York City, are the most heavily taxed corporations in the country, bar
none," McMahon said.

A spokesman for Gov. Paterson said the Empire State was still "the economic
engine of the country and that it holds an enviable reputation in the global
marketplace."

With Post Wire Services

TALE OF THE TAPE

NY State                                                                  Texas

55               Fortune 500 companies                 58

Citigroup (5)       HighestFortune 500 ranking       Exxon-Mobile (2)

6.5%                  Personal income tax                     No

17.23%                    Corporate tax                           None*

4%                        State sales tax                            6.25%

* Texas has a much lower franchise tax

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             July 10, 2008 Thursday

WEIRD BUT TRUE

BYLINE: Lukas I. Alpert, Wire Services

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 280 words


If all criminals were this dumb, the police in Hartford, Conn., might as well
call it quits.

Max Minnifield called cops to report that he had been robbed - while buying
crack. He was arrested for his trouble.

Later, the judge asked, "Did you really think the police were going to go after
the people?"

Minnifield, as he probably should have been earlier, was speechless.

*

Get these motherf - - -ing ticks off this motherf - - -ing plane!

United Airlines officials were forced to ground a flight out of Denver for six
hours after a passenger found a tick, which can carry Lyme disease, onboard.

Ultimately, three others were found and the passengers were boarded onto another
plane.

*

In Colorado, not returning your library books is a criminal act.

Thomas Pilaar was sentenced to 10 years in jail for checking out hundreds of
books and DVDs from Denver libraries and trying to sell them on Craigslist.

In all, Pilaar stole 1,400 books and DVDs, costing the library $35,000.

*

He didn't just lose his shirt at the casino. He lost his pants, too.

A naked man stole a beer and then hijacked a Las Vegas bus - punching out its
rear window, forcing the operator off, and then driving it 200 yards before
hopping off the moving vehicle.

The man was arrested and given clothes - and a mental evaluation.

*

A plastic tank filled with cow gas isn't most people's cup of tea, but
scientists in Argentina are anxiously studying what has been collected in the
battle against global warming.

Cow farts contain methane - a potent greenhouse gas. Researchers in the
cattle-filled country have discovered that cow gas makes up 30 percent of
Argentina's greenhouse emissions.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             August 17, 2008 Sunday

PARKING RULE PUTS CITY ECO EFFORT IN REVERSE

BYLINE: GINGER ADAMS OTIS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 195 words


New York is undercutting its own plan for a greener, cleaner city with a policy
that requires residential developments to build off-street parking for
occupants, a new report charges.

About 170,000 more cars will be clogging the city by 2030, based on projected
vehicle ownership for new housing developments, according to the report,
"Suburbanizing the City," being released today by Transportation Alternatives
and a coalition of environmental advocates.

The projection was calculated by taking the 265,000 dwelling units forecasted by
the city's PlaNYC and multiplying the units by city-mandated parking
requirements.

Adding that many cars to already-congested streets means another billion miles
will be tacked on to the city's annual mileage count by 2030, said Wiley
Norvell, spokesman for Transportation Alternatives.

The emissions produced by the additional cars would more than wipe out the
estimated 351,000 tons of greenhouse gases Mayor Bloomberg wants to eradicate
through his "green" taxi initiative, Transportation Alternatives said.

"All this unnecessary parking could completely erase the city's positive efforts
to reduce congestion," Norvell said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday

SIGHTINGS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 105 words


CYBILL Shepherd getting her cougar on at new Allegretti on West 22nd Street,
where she was having a romantic meal with a young actor . . . HALLMARK Channel
honcho Henry Schleiff discussing climate change at Michael's with Rep. Ed
Markey, chairman of the new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global
Warming . . . ROD Stewart, Penny Lancaster and their 20-year-old son, Alastair,
at the Victoria Gardens amusement park at Wollman Rink . . . DESIGNER Marc Ecko,
boxer Miguel Cotto and actor Tony Sirico breaking bread at Nino's restaurant . .
. RAFAEL Nadal and his hitting partner, Tomeu Slava, at "Phantom of the Opera."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          September 27, 2008 Saturday

FEISTY FOES IN DRAMATIC DUEL ; TOUGH JABS AT 1ST PREZ FACE-OFF MAC RIPS 'MOST
LIBERAL' SPENDER OBAMA: BEWARE OF 'MORE BUSH'

BYLINE: CARL CAMPANILE Post Correspondent

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 902 words


OXFORD, Miss. -  John McCain last night in the first presidential debate slammed
Barack Obama as a far-left, tax-hiking, pork-barrel spending liberal
inexperienced on foreign policy.

Obama smacked McCain back as a President Bush clone out of touch on the economy
and favors the wealthy with his tax plan.

The two White House contenders also traded blows over energy issues, Iraq,
Afghanistan and Iran.

The initial plan was to have the 90-minute debate focus exclusively on foreign
policy and national security.

But given the crisis on Wall Street, moderator Jim Lehrer of PBS asked about
economic issues right away -  and the sparring on pocketbook issues took the
first 40 minutes.

Obama, who took the first question at the University of Mississippi event billed
by locals as the "Duel in the Delta," struck first.

"John, 10 days ago, you said the fundamentals of the economy are sound. And I
just fundamentally disagree," Obama said.

McCain blasted back by hammering Obama's spending record during his first term
in the Senate.

"[Obama] has asked for $932 million of earmark pork-barrel spending, nearly a
million dollars for every day that he's been in the United States Senate,"
McCain said.

"That kind of thing is not the way to rein in runaway spending in Washington,
DC."

By comparison, McCain said he has never requested an earmark during his 26 years
in the Senate.

The Republican nominee also accused Obama of having the "most liberal voting
record in the Senate" and being too far to the left to achieve consensus in
Washington.

Obama countered that McCain wants to cut taxes for the wealthy at the expense of
the middle class. The Democratic nominee said his tax cuts goes for citizens
making less than $250,000.

The Illinois Democrat said his plan was a better recipe "than the policies of
President Bush that John McCain wants to follow."

McCain shot back: "Sen. Obama didn't mention that, along with tax cuts, he is
also proposing $800 billion in new spending on new programs."

Obama insisted he has a way to pay for the increased spending on health care and
education. He also blamed President Bush -  who, Obama said, was supported by
McCain 90 percent of the time on Senate votes -  for leading an "orgy of
spending."

Tiring of the Bush comparison, McCain said, "I have opposed the president on
spending, climate change, torture, Guantanamo Bay . . . I'm the maverick."

A flash CNN poll of debate watchers found that Obama won. Of the 524 people
queried, 51 percent said Obama won and 38 percent said McCain did. Undecided
voters also gave Obama the nod in a CBS survey -  40 percent said Obama won, 22
percent said McCain and 38 percent said it was a draw.

Both were vague on questions concerning the Wall Street rescue plan, a burning
issue. Obama declined comment on whether he supported the package, noting there
is no final language for him to read.

McCain said "sure" when asked if he'd support a deal if one is reached.

Both also dodged a query about what they would give up in their economic plans
to pay for the financial rescue. Neither said they would give up their most
cherished proposals.

The two also quarreled on energy. McCain said Obama objects to offshore drilling
and nuclear power, while Obama insisted he's more committed to green initiatives
than McCain.

And they battled fiercely on Iraq.

"I opposed [the Iraq war] from the beginning," Obama said. "We hadn't caught bin
Laden. We hadn't put al Qaeda to rest . . . Al Qaeda is stronger now than at any
time since 2001. We took our eye off the ball in Afghanistan."

McCain said, "Sen. Obama said the surge wouldn't work . . . That it was doomed
to failure."

"The surge is succeeding. Sen. Obama won't acknowledge we are winning in Iraq,"
said McCain, a former navy pilot and Vietnam POW.

But Obama stood his ground -  saying the Iraq war has actually strengthened
Iran's role in the region.

McCain also charged that Obama wants to meet with the leaders of Iran, Cuba and
Venezuela without preconditions.

"This isn't just naive. It's dangerous," he said.

Obama parried that even Henry Kissinger, a McCain adviser, said it's prudent to
meet with enemies.

However, Kissinger issued a statement after the debate saying that Obama had
mischaracterized his position and that he had not recommended the president meet
with Iranian leaders.

During the discussion on foreign policy, McCain often referred to Obama as
"naive" or misinformed -  in short, an inexperienced lightweight. Obama, by
contrast, said six times that McCain was "right" or he agreed with his rival.

McCain said: "I honestly don't believe that Sen. Obama has the knowledge or
experience and has the wrong judgments in a number of areas, including his
initial reaction to the Russian invasion -  aggression in Georgia."

BODY BLOWS

McCain's best shot:  "It's hard to reach across the aisle from that far to the
left," blasting Obama for having the Senate's most liberal voting record."

McCain's worst slip:  "You don't say that out loud. If you have to do things,
you do things," as he scolded Obama for saying he'll send US troops to Pakistan
border to root out al Qaeda."

Obama's best shot:   "You said [Iraq] was going to be quick and easy. You were
wrong . . . you like to pretend the war began in 2007."

Obama's worst slip:    "It's only $18 billion," he remarked on the amount of
congressional earmarks in last year's budget.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday

RECESSION TV - TV EXECS: WE'RE GOING BACK TO SIX-PACK SERIES

BYLINE: ADAM BUCKMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 441 words


TOUGH times call for laughs.

As the economy goes into a tailspin and the mood of the country changes, TV
execs are starting to shift gears.

With surprising unanimity, they say they're looking for comedies.

"The tradition has been, in times of difficulty, comedy has fared really well,"
says Kim Rozenfeld, senior vice president of current dramas at ABC.

"I don't think [audiences] want to see a show about the fall of Lehman
Brothers," says NBC's programming honcho, Ben Silverman. "We're developing a lot
of comedies.

"We anticipated that the economic times were not going to be as strong as they
once were," Silverman says, "and so, after the writers' strike, we consciously
began development on a number of shows featuring working-class heroes."

Silverman and other TV execs say they expect to see a revival in comedy and
other escapist fare as audiences look to television as an escape from economic
woes.

"One thing that is definitely happening is, as the economic crisis has entered
the zeitgeist, certain projects become more relevant and others less," says one
studio honcho, Jennifer Nicholson Salke, who oversees comedy and drama
development at Twentieth Century Fox Television.

Salke cited a handful of examples. One is a new comedy from Shawn Ryan, the
creator of two gritty one-hour dramas, "The Shield" for FX and "The Unit" for
CBS. His proposed new comedy is called "The Millionaires' Club," and concerns "a
group of working-class people who get together and pool their cash" for a series
of business ventures.

Another one "set in the blue-collar world" is called "Two-Dollar Beer," starring
comic actor Mike Binder, Salke says.

"Think back to the 'Roseanne' paradigm," Salke says. "As I look at my
development report, those projects are sitting at the top of it."

One thing you shouldn't look for: TV's richest fictional families -  such as the
ultra-rich Darling clan of ABC's "Dirty Sexy Money" -  suddenly going broke,
although aspects of the financial crisis could figure into future plotlines,
says ABC's Rozenfeld.

"I don't think you'd find the Darlings suddenly brought to their knees
financially because of the turn in the economic climate," he says. " 'Dirty Sexy
Money' is a soap at heart, an escapist show. They are so fabulously wealthy that
this is sort of like a hangnail to them."

NBC's Silverman thinks viewers increasingly want to see characters who inspire
them. He cited the network's new "Knight Rider" series as an example of an
escapist series already on the air.

"That was the thought process" behind the show's development, he said. "And
guess what? Every week, the good guy and the car win."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN and OUT: Bad times spell the end of spa shows like   "Dirty Sexy
Money" as the networks start looking for the new "Roseanne."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 13, 2008 Monday

BON-TON HEARS TOM-TOMS OF BAD NEWS ON HOLIDAY HORIZON

BYLINE: JAMES COVERT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 354 words


The economic crisis is threatening a new victim in the department-store sector -
Bon-Ton Stores.

Bon-Ton - which operates a slew of regional mall anchors in the Northeast and
Midwest - is facing tightened credit for inventory deliveries as the crucial
holiday season heats up, sources told The Post.

"We have plenty of cash on hand to get us through the holiday season without any
issues," Bon-Ton spokeswoman Mary Kerr said, noting the retailer had $241
million available on a revolving credit line on Sept. 30.

Still, sources said big clothing manufacturers, including Liz Claiborne and
Jones Apparel, have tightened terms on shipments to York, Pa.-based Bon-Ton,
demanding quicker payment as the uncertainty mounts.

Unless the financial crisis takes an unexpectedly drastic turn, those larger
firms are expected to keep merchandise flowing to stores through Christmas. Last
week, Bon-Ton reported better-than-expected September sales, although they still
declined.

But in recent weeks, some smaller suppliers to Bon-Ton have said credit they
need to make deliveries is drying up. So-called "factoring" companies, including
the giant commercial lenders CIT and GMAC, have all but stopped extending credit
for deliveries during November and December, the suppliers have said.

Bon-Ton, which relies on factored deliveries for between 20 and 40 percent of
its inventory, is in talks with some suppliers to resolve the situation, Kerr
confirmed.

"We don't intend to pay upfront cash for any deliveries," as some suppliers have
demanded, Kerr said. She added the company remains on track to reduce long-term
debt - a huge burden in part due to its acquisition of a slew of regional
chaines from Saks in 2006 - by as much as $50 million by year's end. That debt
was recently trading at 30 cents on the dollar.

Most insiders think Bon-Ton will survive the holidays without being forced into
bankruptcy by skittish suppliers. But a worsening economic climate could quickly
spur a change in vendor sentiment, they add.

"Right now, things look OK with Bon-Ton, but we're nervous," said one executive
at a major apparel company.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday

FUNDS & GAMES - ATHLETES NOT IMMUNE TO FINANCIAL CRISIS

BYLINE: BRIAN COSTELLO

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 861 words


None of Jay Feely's teammates has stopped by his locker for investing advice
during the past few weeks, but maybe they should. Before becoming and NFL
player, the Jets kicker was a licensed financial adviser.

The financial crisis has been felt in all corners of our country, even in the
locker rooms of professional sports. Now no one is going to have pity for
millionaire athletes, but investing is extremely important for players who make
a large amount of money over a short period of time and whose retirement age is
closer to 35 than 65.

"The reality is you have such a short window to make the kind of money you do
now that you need to be smart with it, you need to invest it well," Feely said.

Because of his background, Feely manages his own money and more than a year ago
went liquid with his investments. He anticipated a problem on Wall Street.

When the financial crisis began a few weeks ago, Feely said he was surprised at
how little reaction there was within the Jets locker room. Most of the athletes
interviewed said they trust their advisers and don't spend much time worrying
about what's going on. They check quarterly statements or have occasional
conversations with their adviser, but it's not like players are turning off ESPN
to check CNBC.

"During the first week when AIG was collapsing and Lehman Brothers and you had
that general panic, there wasn't that panic here," Feely said. "You didn't see
it at all. You didn't see the ramifications at all because the guys here are
young, they have money and they don't have that same scare factor."

He has some simple advice for players worried about their portfolio.

"I think they should have at least a year's worth of cash put aside, so they can
pay a year's worth of bills and if they have extra cash, this may be a good time
to look at investing," he said.

For players without Feely's expertise, it comes down to having faith in the
person they pay to manage their finances. "If my investor came in here and I
wanted to teach him how to play football, he'd have to take my word for it
because he doesn't know," Jets linebacker David Bowens said. "That's the flip
side of the coin. I put a lot of trust in these people."

Bowens then added, "It's actually making my stomach hurt to talk about it."

Like many people, Giants defensive tackle Barry Cofield has been on the phone
with his financial adviser more than once in the past few weeks.

He has listened to her tell him to be patient. He has listened to her advice to
just wait it out and wait for the stock market to rebound. Don't watch the daily
ups and downs, she says, echoing the counsel Americans in all professions are
getting.

Still, he can't help himself.

"I have faith in her but I'm still checking that Internet every day," said
Cofield, who is in the third year of a fouryear, $2.1 million contract.

Traditionally, sports has been immune to economic problems. But this time there
is a sense that rising ticket prices and a lack of extra cash may keep fans away
and eventually the owners and the players will begin to feel the effects.

Marc Ganis, a consultant for Sports Corp Ltd. in Chicago, has worked with many
teams across different sports and feels players may see fewer zeroes on their
contract when they become free agents.

"The athletes up to now have been insulated from market conditions," Ganis said.
"That's about to meaningfully change. I'm confident from my discussions with
team owners. This last downturn - the uncertainty they feel, the lack of
liquidity, the expectation that these economic spikes are now part of our
landscape - has caused owners to say we're not going to take the risks any
longer."

The first test of how this economic turmoil affects the sports world comes in a
few weeks when baseball free agency begins. Teams are weighing what they want
their payrolls to be in 2009 and the current climate is a factor. Top free
agents such as CC Sabathia and Manny Ramirez probably will be unaffected but the
middle-tier and lowerlevel free agents may get less than they would have a year
ago.

"Lots of guys that are pitchers and win 12 games a year and would have made
$12-14 million, it's going to be hard to get those same n u m b e r s , " Ganis
said.

P l a y ers are making adjustm e n t s already. G i a n t s offensive tackle
Kareem McKenzie said his investments are all longterm, but he has felt a crunch
in his wallet already.

"In terms of ready cash, you can't spend as much as you used to," he said. "You
have to plan more effectively for what may come because if you don't have liquid
cash on hand to do the things that are necessary you're going to be in a bind.
You're going to have to take the money out of the market that you would have
left in to grow and regain some of those losses."

Some athletes see this downturn as the time to now invest more money. Knicks
forward Malik Rose sounds giddy when talking about the prospects for his
portfolio.

"When things are like this, it benefits guys who have liquid cash," he said.
"You keep buying. As it goes down, everybody wants to sell, but it's cheaper.
I'm setting my pieces up for the checkmate." - additional reporting by Marc
Berman

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAYING UPRIGHT: Jets kicker Jay Feely, once a licensed financial
adviser, says athletes should keep at least a year's worth of cash on hand to
pay bills while the market is tanking. (N.Y. Post photo illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 29, 2008 Wednesday

SPECIAL DELIVERY - UPSCALE RESTAURANTS GIVE GOOD TAKEOUT

BYLINE: CARLA SPARTOS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 756 words


FORGET fine china. These days, cardboard containers are in.

The ups and downs of a volatile stock market are causing some New Yorkers to
lose their appetite for fancy restaurants - or at least the 20 percent tips and
300 percent markups on wine associated with them.

And high-end restaurants are happy to accommodate the growing number of
homebodies with new and expanded takeout service - especially after a month of
business made sluggish by Jewish holidays, presidential debates and financial
uncertainty.

"Delivery has really taken off in our industry," says Stratis Morfogen, who
recently opened Philippe Express, the casual Greenwich Village spinoff of the
fashionable uptown Chinese restaurant. "One, it's an election year. Two, people
are finding in all the Wall Street turmoil a lot more reasons to eat in and stay
home."

And while Morfogen says he and his partners had planned to open Philippe Express
before the economy went south, other eateries are making more conscious
decisions to cater to shut-ins.

At Kefi, the Greek restaurant from Michael Psilakis and Donatella Arpaia opening
next month on the Upper West Side, the entire menu will be available for
delivery, as will additional offerings with lower prices and an array of
family-style dinner packages.

Families will be able to round out dishes such as roasted chicken ($45) and lamb
shank ($65) with a choice of two appetizers (think Greek salad or meatballs) and
two sides (including creamed spinach and roasted lemon potatoes).

For a family of six, the roasted chicken package prices out to $7.50 per person.
Not bad, considering Psilakis was hailed by Food & Wine as the Best New Chef of
2008. "In today's economic climate, value has become a big buzzword," says
Psilakis.

Down in the Financial District, the French brasserie Perle will offer a separate
takeout area when it opens next month at 62 Pearl St. - though that wasn't part
of owner Mario Carta's initial plan. Rather, neighborhood layoffs spurred him to
make the change mid-construction.

"When I say to people that I'm opening in the Wall Street area, they all look at
me and say, 'You're not scared?' It's never the right moment, it's the never
wrong moment, we're just going to have to adapt our concept to the economy,"
says Carta.

"You have to go with the flow and make things more approachable. That's how you
survive," says Nikki Cascone, the chef-owner behind NoLIta's 24 Prince, who
recently expanded her delivery offerings to include more affordable items.

"New Yorkers may go out to eat less, but they aren't going to start cooking
every night," says Cascone, adding that she's noticed a recent spike in delivery
demand - especially at dinner.

Others are witnessing a similar phenomenon. 'Wichcraft, the casual takeout arm
of Tom Colicchio's culinary empire, recently added an extra person to its call
center to accommodate an increase in evening orders. At Mia Dona, nighttime
deliveries are up by 30 percent. And Vong is enjoying brisk business after
partnering with SeamlessWeb, the online delivery service.

And when Obika - the new Midtown mozzarella bar - launches takeout and delivery
operations next month, it expects to increase business by 30 to 40 percent.

Such figures may explain why an increasing number of upscale restaurants are
exploring delivery as an untapped revenue source. "Over the course of the past
three months, we've been getting inquiries from finedining restaurants - not Le
Bernardin, but one step removed from that," says SeamlessWeb president Jason
Finger.

Fancier eateries using the SeamlessWeb service include Delmonico's Steakhouse,
Geisha, Landmarc, Mr. K's and Sushi of Gari 46.

And then there are the restaurant-style options from FreshDirect, which has
recently partnered with Rosa Mexicano, Tabla and chef Terrance Brennan of
Picholine for a line of "4-Minute Meals" that can be paired with selections from
Union Square Wines.

Looking to chow down on Tabla Halibut in Bengali mustard seed curry? On the
FreshDirect site, Tabla General Manager Terry Coughlin recommends you pick up a
bottle of Dashwood sauvignon blanc "for a stunning pair." No need to deal with a
snotty sommelier ever again. No wonder Steve Druckman, FreshDirect's chief
marketing officer, says his "customers tell us they are eating out at
restaurants less."

As for the rise in weekend deliveries that SeamlessWeb has seen, Finger says,
"People [are] modifying their lifestyle. They might not be going out for dinner
and a movie but ordering through SeamlessWeb and getting Netflix."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Mia Dona; Kefi. [Michael Sofronski (2)] -Fresh Direct. -Mia Dona;
Kefi. [Michael Sofronski (2)]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

MONEY OF 'COLOR' WITHDRAWN; NEW GUARE PLAY WON'T BE IN PUBLIC

BYLINE: Michael Riedel

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 665 words


HOW handy it is these days for producers to blame "the economy" whenever a show
falls apart.

And how easily the media accept it.

The latest example: The cancellation, on the eve of rehearsals, of John Guare's
new play, "A Free Man of Color," at The Public Theater.

With George C. Wolfe directing, it was to have starred Mos Def and Jeffrey
Wright.

Oskar Eustis, the head of The Public, issued a statement yesterday: "The current
harsh economic climate means we cannot produce 'Free Man' this season within The
Public's fiscal parameters."

In this case, The Public's "fiscal parameters" meant Carole Shorenstein Hays, of
the powerful San Francisco real estate family. She has produced more than 20
plays on Broadway and has been a generous supporter of The Public.

Eustis, theater sources say, wanted a huge sum from her to produce "A Free Man
of Color." One person puts the figure at nearly $1 million.

"Basically, she was supposed to pay for the whole thing, and from the amount of
money they wanted, she was probably paying for their holiday party, too," the
source says.

But at the last minute, Hays decided to keep her checkbook shut - and not
because she's broke. (She can see the Golden Gate Bridge. From her living room.)

Word around The Public is that Hays requested to see rewrites - the script is
said to be good, if a little bulky - but was palmed off with just a synopsis.

This wasn't the first time Hays' request for script changes was largely ignored,
theater sources say. She threw some money at "The Little Flower of East Orange,"
directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman, at The Public last April. She was told that
the script would be reworked during the show's run, but in fact very little was
changed.

Hays didn't comment for this column. But when her money didn't come through,
Eustis immediately shut down the production. Wolfe and Guare were shocked. They
tried to raise money through friends but could only come up with a couple
hundred thousand dollars.

This is where the bad economy really did come in: The gang of super-rich people
who generally support anything Wolfe does aren't as free and easy with their
money as they once were.

So let this be a lesson to Eustis and other nonprofit honchos.

There are indeed rich people out there who will still fund your shows. There
just aren't as many as there used to be. And if you put all your eggs in Carole
Shorenstein Hays' basket, you'd better bow and scrape and send her the damn
rewrites.

TIME Out critic Adam Feld  man, who also serves as president of the New York
Drama Critics' Circle, has responded to charges that he runs the organization
like the Nixon White House - and to the even more serious allegation that he
dyes his hair.

In my column last week, several critics said Feldman is obsessed with keeping
details of the critics' meetings secret. And Jacques le Sourd wondered if
Feldman dyed his hair "Duchess of Windsor black."

(Although his name sounds like that of a French hairdresser's, le Sourd is in
fact the critic for Gannett Newspapers.)

In an e-mail, Feldman writes: "Always a pleasure to be the potato in one of your
inimitable mash notes! Having worked to make the Drama Critics' Circle more open
and transparent in many ways, I consider myself rather miscast in the role of
Nixonian secrecy fetishist.

"But I'm proud of our group, and if a couple of members have gripes about me -
or idiosyncratic theories about my hair - then, well, what can I say? That's the
Circle for you: Everyone's a critic."

Le Sourd did touch a nerve - or, more aptly, snap a scrunchie - with his
question.

Here's a report from another critic:

"I saw Adam last night. He was putting his head in people's faces to prove that
he doesn't dye his hair. It was funny since I hadn't read [Riedel's] column yet.
I thought Adam was nuts, asking people if they could see that he doesn't dye his
hair."

Another eerie parallel: In a 1970 Time magazine article, Nixon was accused of .
. . dyeing his hair!

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Playwright John Guare. (Scott Wintrow/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

E-MAIL IS A GAS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 97 words


WHILE billionaire banker brother Ivan Wilzig dabbles in capes, chains and
bondage masks at his notorious, X-rated Hamptons bashes, his equally wealthy
brother, Alan Wilzig, is embracing wild life of a different sort. Alan - who
owns 200 acres of farmland in upstate Craryville and is a member of the New York
Farm Bureau - has sent out an e-mail asking friends to protest proposed state
environmental legislation that would penalize farmers for flatulence emitted by
their cows and sheep. "This permit would effectively tax farm animals which emit
greenhouse gases," he explains.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "90210" star Annalynne McCord takes a breather with her kitty Mouse on
the set of her show in Los Angeles. (INFphoto)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday

'WARM' BEER CRI$I$ - ECO-THREAT TO ALES

BYLINE: DAVID K. LI

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words


High beer prices are on tap, and global warming could be to blame.

The environmental crisis has hit suds-lovers where it hurts most - at the bar
and in the wallet - as prices of grains and hops soar, activists said yesterday.

"When we're trying to deal with young people, you have to define issues that are
attractive to them, and this is something that's caught their attention," said
Matthew Silverstein, president of the Queens County Young Democrats, which was
set to host a "Save the Ales" forum last night on the impact of global warming
on beer prices.

As global temperatures rise, radical shifts in weather and more parched lands
are making it harder to grow grains and hops, activists and beer makers agreed.

Kelly Taylor, brewmaster for Kelso of Brooklyn beers, said his customers have
paid between 10 and 15 percent more in the past year. He warned that more hikes
are inevitable.

"I think prices are going to be going up every year - steep price increases,"
Taylor said. "My malt prices went up by 50 percent in one year."

Taylor, whose brewery is in Clinton Hill, said hops and grains were in short
supply worldwide.

"We saw a drought in Australia, a bad harvest in Europe, flooding in Germany and
hailstorms in the Pacific Northwest. Across the board, we saw significant rises
in the price of grains and hops," he said.

The beer man chalked up the wild weather to global warming but said many of his
customers don't take the issue seriously enough.

"Some people are just calling it a bad year," he said.

Shane Welch, brewmaster at Six Point Craft Ales, in Red Hook, Brooklyn, said
even small brewers are locking themselves into costly, long-term deals for hops
and grains at hefty annual price boosts.

But even with those deals in hand, Welch said, it doesn't assure brewers will
have the ingredients they need.

"You can sign all the contacts you want to guarantee a price and certain amount
of pounds - but who's to say they'll even have that product available?" the
veteran brewmaster said.

"If there's none to go around, then what?"

Microbreweries like Six Point and Kelso could be hit especially hard.

"It's going to have an impact on a slot of small craft breweries, this is going
to shake out a lot of people who can't deal with these price increases," Welch
said.

"It'd be one thing if you're talking about costs going up 10 to 20 percent over
a few years. We're talking 50, 70, 120, 200 percent on certain strains, the most
sought-after hops."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday

EVERY NATION JOINS IN CELEBRATION OF EARTH-SHAKING WIN

BYLINE: CATHY BURKE

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 481 words


World markets surged, crowds cheered in plazas and pubs across Europe, and
nations around the globe were riveted as US voters made Barack Obama their next
president.

Wall Street got the party going yesterday, ending up more than 3 percent at
9,625.28 - its highest close in four weeks. And the rally extended early today
in Asia, where stocks also rose sharply.

Everywhere, the reaction was astonishment at the historic election.

"America is electing a new president, but for the Germans, for Europeans, it is
electing the next world leader," said Alexander Rahr, director of the German
Council on Foreign Relations.

The Irish village of Moneygall was trying to claim Obama as a favorite son - on
seemingly incredible research concluding that the candidate's
great-great-great-grandfather, Joseph Kearney, lived there before emigrating to
the United States.

At Moneygall's Hayes Bar, an American flag fluttered outside the window and
local band Hardy Drew and the Nancy Boys played a folk song lustily claiming,
"There's no one as Irish as Barack Obama."

Longtime McCain supporter Kay Angelis described it as "a bit lonely and a bit
odd" being a Republican in France. But being in the clear minority at an
election-night party in Paris swarming with Obama supporters didn't dent her
enthusiasm.

"I appreciate experience . . . And I think American voters do, too," the
85-year-old said.

In Germany, where more than 200,000 people flocked to see Obama this summer as
he burnished his foreign-policy credentials during a trip to the Middle East and
Europe, the election dominated television ticker crawls, newspaper headlines and
Web sites.

Obamamania was evident not only across Europe but also in much of the Islamic
world, where Muslims expressed hope that the Democrat would seek compromise
rather than confrontation.

Nizar al-Kortas, a columnist for Kuwait's Al-Anbaa newspaper, saw an Obama
victory as "a historic step to change the image of the arrogant American
administration."

Israeli official Binyamin Ben-Eliezer told the Jerusalem Post that Obama's
election gives Israel "no reason to fear." He said meetings with Obama advisers
had given him the impression that the president-elect was surrounded with people
with "good intentions," the newspaper reported.

World leaders began to weigh in with their congratulations to the
president-elect.

Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister, said he looked forward to meeting
Obama "so that we can continue to strengthen the special bond that exists
between Canada and the United States."

And Helen Clark, New Zealand prime minister, echoed the warm wishes but added a
darker warning.

"Senator Obama will be taking office at a critical juncture," she said. "There
are many pressing challenges facing the international community, including the
global financial crisis and global warming."

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GLOBAL GLEE: A Barack backer hoists an "Obama for Chancellor" sign in
Hamburg, Germany, as US expats in Singapore toast the victory. [AFP/Getty
Images; Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 1, 2008 Tuesday

JOG, MIKE, JOG

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 372 words


Will he do it?

Will Mike Bloomberg make a third-party run for the presidency?

Well, why the hell not?

It wouldn't hurt the country - and, given Mayor Mike's ability to break issues
down to their component parts, such an effort might stimulate some grown-up
political conversation in 2008.

He's been flirting with a run for some time now, hopping about the country -
heck, the world - raising issues like gun control, public health and global
warming.

Add to that the behind-the-scenes movements of trusted aides like Deputy Mayor
Kevin Sheekey - followed by
how-can-I-stop-my-loyal-employees-from-apparently-constructing-a-presidentia
l-campaign protestations from an otherwise notoriously micro-managing boss.

And now comes news that the mayor will attend a confab next weekend of various
big-name moderates from both parties seeking to end Washington's so-called
partisan gridlock.

The event - organized by former Democratic Sens. Sam Nunn of Georgia and David
Boren of Oklahoma (now the president of the University of Oklahoma, which will
host the event) - includes such notables as former Sens. Gary Hart (D-Col.) and
Chuck Robb (D-Va.) and Republicans like ex-Gov. Christie Todd Whitman of New
Jersey and current Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska.

Sounds like a fun party.

On the other hand, the guest list is made to order for Mike, a wonk if there
ever was one.

And a mighty successful wonk, we might add.

In six years running one of the most complex cities in the world, he has not
only been an extraordinarily capable leader, he has acquired more executive
experience than most in the mainstream presidential field.

Beyond just continuing the historic drop in crime of recent years, Bloomberg has
kept New York on a level policy keel while effecting zoning and other changes
that will be paying economic dividends for decades.

And he's making real progress with public education, which is more than any of
the major-party candidates can say.

Plus he won't have any difficulty getting his message out - as he has
demonstrated twice here in New York City.

Kicking off a full-fledged run might be a bit premature, but a couple of laps
around the old warm-up track would get a lot of attention.

As it very well should.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday

KISS MAN KNOWS WORKING GIRLS

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 830 words


HOOKERS and even those who are just the bookers of lookers, beware. Rock star
Gene Simmons, of KISS and of mattresses far and wide, is on your tail - plus any
other part  of you he can get on. A semi-pro swordsman, Gene's written "Ladies
of the Night: A Historical and Personal Perspective on the Oldest Profession in
the World."

The man claims 4,800 sexual encounters. Not to be picky but, if so, where'd he
find time left to make a list? Anyway, with his legendary insight and whatever
other bodily parts assisted in the research, he gives us his thinking on Doing
It. He rocks from the first cavewoman to bad girls of the Bible, brothels of
Europe, geishas of Japan, courtesans of the Victorian Era, two-buck
streetwalkers of Eighth Avenue, saloon ladies of the Wild West, slick chicks of
Vegas to today's modern madams and high-end (and high-front) call girls.

Page One: "At the dawn of existence 4 million years ago, that first human female
grunted to her male counterpart: 'I'll stay in this nice warm cave. You go out
and risk your hairy behind to bring back that delicious Mastodon meat. And I'll
trade some of mine for yours.' After that momentous event, nothing would ever be
the same."

We read the Sung Dynasty (years 960-1279) triggered the phrase "red-light
district" because red lights outside places identified them. We read
prostitution was a business for lawmakers plus lawbreakers because Pope Clement
II (year 1046) ruled anyone engaged in it must leave half their property to the
Church. And Chapter 18 is Gene's interview with three current Ladies of the
Evening - who'll also do it daytime - in Hollywood.

This Simmons Books job, written with Julie McCarron, has lush velvety binding,
is out July 8 and will be laid down - pardon the expression - along with a
contest. Log onto genesimmons.com and, 200 words or less, say why the world's
oldest profession is good or bad . . . and why. You can win anything from an
actual personal greeting from Gene to - if you manage to get a naked photo
delivered - maybe an actual personal phone call.

TO raise nine kids in one trailer with one bathroom, surfer Doc Paskowitz taught
Sarah McLachlan, Mary Steenburgen, Michael "Kramer" Richards surfing. Now 88,
his life's in the documentary "Surfwise" . . . Another doc. Producer Daryl Roth
lined up Edie Falco, Lynn Redgrave, Richard Gere, Glenn Close, Isaac Mizrahi for
one on the relationship 'twixt celebs and their dogs . . . Tracey Ullman on why
her show never did the Dem candidates: "Hillary, I can't think of anything
funny. Barack, too big a makeup job." . . . America "Ugly Betty" Ferrera and
former Miramaxer Meryl Poster, now with NBC's Jeff Zuckerman, caught "In the
Heights." Meryl may nail its film rights . . . Silda Wall Spitzer's first public
appearance is Wednesday. Christie's. Benefit and silent auction for Children for
Children, which promotes hands-on youth volunteering. Call (212) 850-4170 for
tickets.

WHILE presidential contenders drum beat health care, Medicare may be into
curtailment. I'm hearing HMOs send you to a schizophrenic for a second opinion.

I ALREADY raved the Natural History Museum horse exhibit. But I do it again in
case you missed it. The origin traces back 55 million years. They existed 10
million years ago in what's now Nebraska. Horses, the most important species in
human history, and humans interacted 40,000 years ago in Ice Age Europe, and
today they number almost 60 million worldwide. The exhibit takes us up to - if
not Eight Belles, who was lost at the Kentucky Derby - the whole explanation of
what happened to Barbaro. The exhibition took two years in planning, and you
absolutely must see it. Museum president Ellen Futter's next, up next year, will
be on global warming.

THE John Cleeses, whose divorce I first reported here, ain't amicable. It's his
third wife, her second hus  band. She's American. He isn't. She's asking 8
million euros plus 71,000 monthly. John is rich. Alice wants to be, too . . .
Theatergoers figure negotiating Lincoln Center's construction is worth it
because "South Pacific" is averaging six curtain calls and a standing ovation .
. . Speaking of thither, the Brits may make the "Young Frankenstein" mistake.
Cameron Mackintosh's soon-due newest London musical is "Oliver!" and he wants
200 bucks a ticket . . . Kim Cattrall says folks everywhere pester her for sex
advice: "I'm at Citarella's fish counter, and a man with his 13-year-old
daughter's talking sex to me. Nice I'm recognized but, frankly, all I wanted was
some clams and to get the hell out of there" . . . Gov. Paterson: "Government
isn't as difficult as running a household alone. When my wife's away I can't
wait to get back to the problems in Albany" . . . From something called the
Nando Times: "Britney Spears' neck, her worst feature, is so thick she must
never wear hats again."

SEVENTH Avenue vendor's sign: "Bananas 40 cents each. Three for $1.25."

Only in New York, kids, only in New York.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              June 8, 2008 Sunday

FLYING THE OH-SO INFURIATING SKIES

BYLINE: Cindy Adams

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 706 words


SUMMERTIME, and the flyin' ain't easy.

The schedules. I guess they are very important. Without them we'd never know how
late we were.

The food. What must you flunk to work in airline catering? Except for Austrian
Airlines, which actually has a four-star chef on board, you can dine better at
Abu Ghraib.

The cabin attendants. So warm and gracious. An elderly white-knuckled flier
tremulously asked: "How do I know if anything goes wrong?" and was told only:
"The pilot will become hysterical."

And their looks? As rundown as the equipment. When one Midwest flight hit a
little turbulence, mine buzzed me to help her up the aisle.

Airlines having a bad time? That doesn't fly. It's passengers who are having it
bad.

Take Delta. I mean, please. The airheads who run Delta are knocking off 30,000
employees. Next up is planes without pilots. They wanted to merge with Northwest
but the deal fell through. I hear the problem was the name. What to call it.
Delta North? Delta West? Delta Broke? Delta Burke?

United, which is international, hoped to partner with US Airways which is
national. Great idea. I can see their new logo now: "Worst airline in the whole
world."

It's the industry analysts and chief executives who are using up all that fuel.
Those CEOs are really the gasbags. American is about to start charging $15 for
the first checked bag. Would that be by the mile? And would that bag be the one
on your Chicago flight that gets off with you in Chicago or the one that had a
much longer trip and ended up in New Delhi? Even ticket agents tell you the best
way to avoid losing your luggage when traveling by air is to send it by bus.

To conserve fuel Southwest is slowing their actual in-air time by a few minutes
per flight. Excellent. Another 10 minutes off the Houston-LA run and we go back
to trains.

Saying the heavier the load the more fuel it takes, carriers are even lobbying
to charge passengers like freight. Per their poundage. So someone in heavy
cashmere gets socked more than one wearing Orlon? Or do we all strip naked at
the metal detector? First the shoes, soon our drawers. Just to go to Cleveland!?
Soon it will be that only anorexics can fly the friendly skies.

NASA re-creates weightlessness in their training simulators. Why can't they do
it in our business-class cabins? This way we could all float around hunting for
those peanuts we'll no longer get.

With fuel so high, one Eastern European carrier, which has hair under its wings,
is switching to coal.

To trim costs, a South American operation is grounding their entire fleet.

My moneymaking suggestions:

* Designer seat-belt buckles. Instead of the usual crappy metal jobs, strap
yourself in with Gucci, Pucci, Ralph Rucci. Five dollars extra.

* Oxygen masks color-coordinated to match one's shoes and purse, $7.50.

* International flights? Stuff the normal day-old, previously read, terminally
crumpled newspapers in such in-demand languages as Swahili and Castillian Inuit.
Offer a current newspaper in English for $2. Unrumpled, $2.50.

* Quarter slots installed on luggage bins.

* Metered peeing. Dollar-bill machines on lavatory doors.

* Bathroom tissue? Pay for it. Credit-card scanners in the "flush" area.

* Films more recent than those starring Rudolph Valentino, a $3.50 tariff. Extra
for "talkies."

* Take a French airline. Buy their postcards. (For instructions on what you're
looking at, an additional surcharge.)

* Plug in your laptop, $1.50 per half-hour or $2 per cloud, whichever is
cheaper.

* Pass the hat to tip the pilot.

* Corkage fee if you BYOB.

* A buck to use the microwave.

* For a blanket that didn't once wrap around Sitting Bull, a small price might
be exacted since it's cheaper than what global dermatologists charge afterward.

* The no-frills airlines. At dinnertime across the Atlantic they can sell you
fishing poles. Then fly real low.

Last year on one of those start-up airlines that already closed down, over the
intercom came the pilot's voice: "Sit back. Relax. This trip is entirely
automatic. Seat-belt sign, automatic. Temperature control, automatic. Enjoy your
ride. Nothing can go wrong . . . go wrong . . . go wrong . . ."

Listen, better you should take a hot-air balloon.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday

A HELPING HAND - THIS WEEK'S HOTTEST NEW GADGETS

BYLINE: MAXINE SHEN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 355 words


Nero LiquidTV TiVo PC

$99 for one-year subscription; Nero.com

Sure, you could always wait until your favorite show gets posted on the Web to
watch it, but if you want immediate gratifi cation (and don't own a TV), this
PC-based DVR system is the only way to go. Not only does it have all the regular
features of TiVo, but it'll also record your favorite episodes directly to your
hard drive, export them to your iPod or PSP and, even better, burn them to DVD.
If you don't already have a TV tuner card and an IR Blaster - to create a
wireless connection between your cable box and PC - get the $199 bundle, which
also includes a TiVo PC remote (shown). Available in mid-October.

Bushnell BackTrack $73.95; Bushnell.com

The next time you're lost in, say, the LES, take one of these puppies with you.
Less fussy than an ubertech, made-for-cars GPS system, the palm-size BackTrack
acts like a homing device, directing you via a high-sensitivity SiRF Star III
GPS receiver toward one of the three locations that you've pre-set with the
onetouch button. As a bonus, it's also a self-calibrating digital compass.

Dots Gloves $15; DotsGloves.com

Winter may not be upon us yet, but it's already cooling down, and even
technophiles need to keep their paws warm. The little rounded metal dots on
three fi ngers of the knit Dots Gloves let you use any touch-screen device -
scratch-free - including ATMs and MetroCard kiosks, without having to expose
your digits to the elements. This means you won't have to resort to using your
nose to answer your sparkly new 3G iPhone when it's freezing outside.

Sennheiser Set 50 TV $119.95; SennheiserUSA.com

Tired of arguing over whether to watch TV in a studio apartment? Might be time
to get some headphones. Technically made to help the hearing-impaired,
Sennheiser's lightweight wireless headphones use an infra-red receiver and
transmitter to send high-quality sound with good speech intelligibility up to 12
meters from your TV (or stereo) to your ears. Balance control lets you fi netune
the volume on each ear, and a rechargeable battery gives you more than nine
hours of listening pleasure.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
